i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-14	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate will be about justice and responsibility. This is one of the most important and serious debates I have had in this House during all my years in Parliament. Imagine yourself that you are young and want to associate with friends and have an active life! You have dreams of studying, working and creating a rich life. But you can't. You're tired all the time. Imagine that you also risk falling asleep at any time and anywhere! You sleepwalk and do weird things. You're a danger to yourself. You're so tired, and some of your friends have left you because you don't want to see them. Besides, you can't get completely well, because at the moment there's no cure. You can certainly relieve the symptoms, but not completely. You struggle daily to get up and try to live as decent a life as possible, although it can never be as usual again. It's not a nightmare, and it's not a horror story from a movie. It is the harsh reality of Felicia and many other young people in her situation. The subject of today's debate is state compensation for people who have become ill with narcolepsy following pandemic vaccination. The Government and the Alliance have agreed on a legislative proposal which, among other things, provides a ceiling for the compensation of those affected by narcolepsy following vaccination. I note that the Swedish Democrats are the only party that has submitted a follow-up motion. And we have reserved ourselves against the decision to impose a ceiling on the compensation of those affected. Not only is this tragic, but it is also a great betrayal of all the people, mostly children and young people, who have suffered from narcolepsy. Mr President, I would like to It has been found that there is an increased risk of children and adolescents becoming ill after vaccination with Pandemrix. That's exactly what happened after vaccination against swine flu. What was not allowed to happen happened, that is, the vaccination recommended by the state had unforeseen and disastrous consequences for some people. As many as 60 percent of the population vaccinated against swine flu. In Sweden, as many as 465 notifications of adverse reactions due to the vaccine had been received by the Medical Insurance until February 2016. In a total of 325 cases, a relationship has been established between the vaccine and the disease narcolepsy. Mr President, I would like to First, the state goes out in large campaigns aimed at the public about how important it is to vaccinate. Then this happens. The victims feel that no one cares. As many as 96 percent of those affected are dissatisfied with state support, according to a SVT survey. It is, in fact, about these people, who have had their lives ruined, that today's discussion is acting. But it is also about how we view the responsibility of the state for the recommendations made by the state. It is about us politicians having to stand up and take our responsibility for the decisions that the state has taken. That is the line we have been pursuing for many years. As early as 2013, we presented a committee initiative aimed at providing financial compensation for all children and young people affected by narcolepsy following vaccination. These children and their families took responsibility and vaccinated themselves, but they paid a very high price. Mr President, I would like to At a Question Time a few days ago, where the Narcolepsy Association and the Narcolepsy and their relatives were invited, Minister of Health Gabriel Wikström said: I know that there are parts of this bill that you are not fully satisfied with, but we must apply the principle of equal treatment in terms of compensation and get to the point. Gabriel Wikström is not here now. It's a little unfortunate, but I'm sure he has a lot of other things to do that might be more important. But does Gabriel Wikström really believe that the victims and their relatives can feel that they can put an end to this disaster and the suffering they have suffered? Actually, I don't think so. As far as the principle of equal treatment is concerned, this damage is not comparable to other medicinal product damage. It is of its kind so unique and extreme that there are no other groups to compare with. So these were perfectly healthy individuals, children and young people, who, in a massive campaign by the state, were urged to vaccinate themselves, not only so that they themselves would not be infected but also that they would take joint responsibility for public health as a whole. It is ultimately a matter of trust, of trust between citizens and the state, and of taking responsibility for their advice even if it goes wrong and strikes hard at individuals. Then the least you can do is take full responsibility. Mr President, I would like to You can and should never try to value a healthy life in money. Being healthy is just as little worth in money as freedom, for example. But money can make a life with disabilities, which narcolepsy undeniably leads to, a little easier and a little better. It can give a little better quality of life. Let us not forget that many of the victims were children and young people. Their ability and ability to train and get a job is either very reduced or completely non-existent as a result of narcolepsy. 10 million, which the ceiling for compensation is now set, will last a lifetime. It will compensate for both the damage and the loss of income for those unable to work. That sum has aroused strong feelings among relatives and victims, and rightly so, we believe. But the government and the Alliance consider the amount to be well taken up. Of course, 10 million is a lot if you get it on a board, directly in your hand. But this is going to be paid out for a lifetime. It should also be remembered that these 10 million will not be indexed or inflationary. What can be seen is that the ceiling for compensation of SEK 10 million will not be enough for some of the victims, mainly the youngest who are most ill, according to a calculation from an audit firm that the Narkolepsy Association has hired. But also the Swedish Children's Ombudsman, the Swedish Medical Council, the Swedish Children's Association and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have stated in their referrals that the compensation should be increased or that the ceiling should be completely removed. Mr President, I would like to It is also serious that this type of compensation ceiling indirectly undermines confidence in recommendations and vaccinations themselves. Vaccinations are already being called into question from some quarters today. There is already an anti-vaccination trend in society today, and that is very unfortunate. It is known that vaccinations are wise. It has had proven effects for generations here in Sweden. It's proven and proven. That is why it is very unfortunate that it has become this way. It is very regrettable that this Pandemrix scandal also has an impact on confidence in both government recommendations and vaccination recommendations. Mr President, I would like to Finland and Norway guarantee full financial compensation for all those who have become ill with narcolepsy after vaccination. Finland has neither an age limit for compensation nor a ceiling for amounts. Why should we in Sweden be worse? The strange thing is that the government in all other contexts is so eager to be the best in the class, but not here. We Swedish democrats believe that the current proposal must be repeated and that the government should come back with a proposal that does not contain a ceiling on compensation. This is the least we can do for those affected. They took responsibility and vaccinated themselves. Now is the time for us to assume our responsibilities. I commend our reservation.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-39	Mr President, I would like to Some of those who took vaccines against swine flu in 2009-2010 were incredibly hard hit. They had a disease that, if we fail to find better treatment or cure against it, will follow them and worsen their lives — their whole lives. That is why, early on, it was important for us in the Alliance Government, together with the Social Democrats, to signal that we will take joint responsibility to ensure that we go beyond the pharmaceutical insurance so that these people who have already been so hard hit can still feel security in terms of their future livelihoods. Was it right to give the vaccine, with the knowledge that we had then? The assessment that has been made afterwards is that it was right. It was not right for some to experience side effects. But it was right that we saved lives. It is easy today to be hindsightful and to say that some have been hit very hard, and we must do what we can to mitigate what has happened to them. But it is also easy to forget which headlines met us in spring and summer 2009. Two-year-old dead in swine flu. Pregnant mother sleeps with a lung machine and risks dying. Newly delivered mother dead in swine flu. There was a strong criticism about who would have access to the vaccine first. There were speculations that we, as elected political representatives, should take precedence over gender. There was strong criticism. We saved lives because we chose to mass-vaccate ourselves. However, some were affected, and we must take our responsibility to alleviate what has affected them. If the pharmaceutical insurance had been in place, the smallest children, where one can most recently see how badly they were affected, would have been completely unremunerated because there is a ceiling of 150 million when there are many who suffer one and the same drug injury. That is why we have said that we are going in with this legislation and ensuring that they too will receive compensation and that it will not be possible to hit this ceiling. However, we have chosen to maintain equal treatment, and the ceiling of 10 million per person in pharmaceutical insurance therefore also applies to those who have suffered as a result of this. Because it is important when we take political decisions that it is equal treatment of our citizens. There is a very clear consensus in the seven parties that are behind the bill that we are today taking a position on regarding the fact that the aim is for those who have been affected to have financial security. What we can know so far is that of those who have been reimbursed by the Medical Insurance, no one has gone up this ceiling. Therefore, we have found it reasonable that it should remain. Of course we understand the anxiety you feel. What will happen to inflation? What's going to happen? There are so many years of life left for those who have been affected. That is why it is clearly stated, both in the government proposal and in the committee's proposal, which we have tried to make even clearer, that the aim is to follow this constantly. The purpose is to feel a sense of security today and for your whole future. In this bill, too, we have removed the limit that existed first, which meant that this would apply to the children affected. The knowledge we had at the time said that it was children who were at risk of developing narcolepsy because of the vaccination. However, as knowledge has increased that adults were also at risk of becoming ill, we have ensured that we do not have a limit, but all those who may have received narcolepsy because they took the vaccine should be able to receive compensation. It is also important that the law does not say that you should prove that there is a direct connection with the vaccination. It's supposed to be likely. It is important that the requirement is lowered, for it is not possible to identify who had become ill anyway. There are always people who fall ill with narcolepsy, but there were many more who got it because they took the vaccine. In this legislative proposal, there is also an important ambition, in addition to what is about remuneration, that we should ensure that research continues. Of course, the most important thing is that we find cure, that we find help so that everyday life becomes easier. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-53	Mr President, I would like to There are certainly many people listening to this debate who have many unanswered questions. I myself have many questions to answer. However, I do not think that my own questions are relevant at the moment, but they are the victims' own questions that I find most interesting to highlight. Many of them are here today listening from the gallery. Others sit in front of the television sets and see the debate. Let me give you some examples of questions that I have received directly from some of the children and young people who have suffered from narcolepsy. They have asked me to put them to Emma Henriksson and the other parties who want a replacement ceiling. One of the questions is: Why should those affected in Sweden receive less compensation than those living in Finland and Norway, where they do not have a compensation ceiling? What happens when you reach the ceiling? I hope that Emma Henriksson can give an honest and frank answer to these questions, because I think we all agree that the victims deserve an honest answer.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-57	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Per Ramhorn! I also meet the question from those who are affected: What is going to happen? What will my life be like in the future? That is what has been our ambition with this legislation: to ensure that those who have been affected early – although many years of anxiety and frustration have already passed – can be told that they will receive compensation and that everyone affected will receive compensation. Those who were the youngest, those who have been most affected, should not go into uncertainty and not know whether they are receiving compensation at all. It is a clear ambition of all seven parties behind the legislation to feel confident that this compensation is sufficient. We have a welfare system in our country where you have protection if you fall ill or suffer from something that reduces your work capacity. That compensation is an incredibly central part and a basis for having a secure economy. But the insurance and this compensation ensure that when it is not enough, you should feel that there is a security in addition. Today, we cannot predict the explosion of inflation and what it would mean. However, in the decision we are taking together today, there is also the clear ambition that nobody should hit this ceiling, and it is, of course, a continuing joint responsibility for the parties behind it that if the development is such that it happens, then obviously we have to come back. That is why we say that it should be followed up annually, from now on.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-62	Mr President, I would like to It was what I feared or was worried about. Neither I nor those affected were given an answer to the question of why we should be worse than Finland and Norway and what applies when you reach the maximum ceiling. I'll take another question. A big difference from other medicines is that in this case the state has released the MPA from liability. The question from those affected is whether it is reasonable that the state does not take full responsibility when things go wrong and there are side effects. Is Emma Henriksson satisfied with how the case and those affected have been dealt with?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-64	Mr President, I would like to I will first try to answer the question from the previous speech, which I did not have time to answer. It is difficult to compare different countries' systems. Our responsibility as parliamentarians in the Swedish Parliament is to ensure that financial security is provided on the basis of the security systems in our country. I am happy to repeat again and again: the aim is for the compensation to be so generous that no one hits the ceiling. We could hear in Swedish Radio this morning that the average payment in Norway is 2 million SEK. It may be enough, but the ceiling in Sweden is set considerably higher. The ambition is that no one should reach that roof. I do not think that anyone who has been involved in the decision-making process does not feel that it has been incredibly painful. We all know that we also exposed ourselves and our children to what some suffered and many were spared. None of us do not wish that this had not happened. We want to feel safe in the future. When the next pandemic comes, there must be access to vaccines, and we should dare to trust that vaccine saves lives without causing side effects. That is the most difficult challenge. Those who have been affected now should feel that we listen to them, that we include their views in the parts that apply up to now and also from now on. It is incredibly important that this security exists. I understand that you feel insecure. I understand that there is doubt. That is why I say it again: The intention is for financial security to exist now and throughout life.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-70	Mr President, I would like to I could actually refer to Emma Henriksson's speech. The Alliance parties and the Social Democrats do not take different views on the issues. I was going to say a few words anyway. I have children and grandchildren myself. The very worst thing I would imagine is that something serious is happening to them. Of course, that applies to all parents. The frustration, anger and despair of both relatives and those directly affected are by no means difficult to understand. It is extremely tragic and regrettable that, at the same time, what was intended to protect the population had the effect that a large number of young people, especially young people, were affected by the serious disease. In politics, there are often different ways of looking at issues. When the then bourgeois alliance government and the Social Democrats reached an agreement in 2012 on state compensation for those affected by narcolepsy after vaccination, it was fully agreed that the seriousness of the issue made it necessary to seek broad political agreement. This was the conclusion of the article that presented the 2012 agreement on the pledge: The statement given by the government and the Social Democrats today does not, of course, solve all the difficulties for the affected children and young people. However, we take the situation very seriously and we will take joint responsibility for those affected in the future. The great political unity is the best guarantee that the victims will feel secure for the future. Mr President, I would like to What the Riksdag will take a position on later today is actually to establish by law what it promised in 2012 and which now, just as then, a large majority of the parties in the Riksdag support. The proposal means that the State ensures that, where necessary, all victims can obtain the highest level of compensation of 10 million per person in the pharmaceutical insurance commitment. Without this legislation, other restrictions on insurance and the large number of victims would mean significantly lower amounts. There has been strong criticism of the fact that there is a ceiling on compensation at all and that this would mean that anyone who is very young today and who may not be able to work at all would risk hitting the ceiling. The main argument that has been put forward in the past not to remove the ceiling is the one on which all Swedish legislation is based, namely the principle of equal treatment. Everyone who suffers drug damage should be treated equally, regardless of which medicine has caused the injury. It is also important to bear in mind that the compensation we are talking about now should be complementary to all other social insurance, labour market insurance and any salary that can be paid during a lifetime. The probability of hitting the ceiling is therefore considered to be small. However, the most important thing to stress for those affected to be able to feel some kind of security for the future is that neither the parliament nor the government will stop following the issue once the Riksdag's decision has been made. The parties that have concluded this agreement have also agreed to continue to monitor developments in this area and to follow up the outcome of the legislation. If it turns out that the conditions change or that the outcome for the victims does not become what has been the purpose, it will be raised in future discussions between the parties. Mr President, I would like to I have been a member of the Social Affairs Committee throughout the process. I have met the directly affected and their relatives on a number of occasions in Almedalen and in the Riksdag. I would like to pay tribute to the Narkolepsy Association for constructive dialogue and for the facts they have presented. I would say that it has contributed to the move from eight to 16 months of the time limit for the connection between vaccination and the onset of the disease and the removal of the age limit. This also applies to the settlement as a whole. Unfortunately, the debate on the product or product of the ceiling has seen the positive aspects of the proposal. Finally, I would like to mention what is still most important. It is about research and the possibility of finding ways to make life easier for all affected. During the year, the Swedish Research Council will be given a renewed mandate to review the current state of research for narcolepsy. The hope is, of course, that the research will come up with new treatment methods. Here too, the government and parliament have a responsibility. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-80	Mr President, I would like to I will continue along this path so that the narcolepsy sufferers ask the questions through me. Why does the government choose to make a law based on the regulatory framework of the Medical Insurance? What does Lennart Axelsson think about those who claim that the law is not compatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child? The Convention means that, in any action taken by authorities and legislators, the best interests of children must come first. Much suggests that for the youngest and most affected, the compensation will not be sufficient.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-82	Mr President, I would like to Per Ramhorn makes things easy by not seeing the problems presented in the discussion about the ceiling. Swedish legislation is based on the fact that we treat citizens equally in different situations. As I have described in my speech, that is the most important reason why we are doing what we are doing. It was the decision we took in 2012 if the pharmaceutical insurance does not cover enough to give this group of affected people a decent life financially, which means that we are today prepared to introduce an exception in the way we normally deal with drug damage and where we refer to the pharmaceutical insurance. We have, as Emma Henriksson has said before, and I have just said in my speech, committed ourselves to monitoring developments on these issues year by year. If something happens that we cannot foresee today, we will, of course, address these issues again to see if we need to do anything further to ensure that we have a financial guarantee for life.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-86	Mr President, I would like to I note that Lennart Axelsson, instead of answering the questions that those affected have, chooses to say that I make it easy for myself. Does Lennart Axelsson not think it is important to answer the questions that those affected want answers to? But okay, I'll take some new questions. We will see if I – or we – get answers to them. Lennart Axelsson has probably taken part of the Narkolepsy Association's investigation, which is prepared by the audit firm PWC. It shows that the compensation will not be sufficient for some. The calculation shows that a 19-year-old whose annuity rate is fixed in 15 years needs between 17 and 19 million SEK in order to receive a Swedish average income during his lifetime – and that is low. Does Lennart Axelsson believe that these calculations are correct or incorrect? If they're wrong, what's wrong with the calculations? These are, therefore, questions from those affected. I would ask Lennart Axelsson to answer the questions.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-90	Mr President, I would like to It is always difficult to calculate what will happen during a life cycle. The calculations made by the investigation and the department regarding the risk of crossing the ceiling of the law that we are about to pass, consider that risk to be quite small. The estimates made by the audit firm show something else, but what we have to stick to are the calculations that we have been presented to us in committee. At the same time, as I said in the previous line, we have guaranteed that the Swedish parliament and government will follow this issue very closely to see if the calculations made today are not correct. That is by some means the most important thing in this matter. Seven out of eight parties in the Swedish Parliament – parties that will certainly remain in this House even if they are not the same – are committed to ensuring that the victims have the opportunity to live a decent life to which they are entitled. Then let us hope that research will provide new treatments that will ensure that there is no need to discuss these ceilings at all.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-94	Mr President, I would like to In June 2009, the World Health Organisation, WHO, declared a pandemic caused by the influenza A/ H1N1 virus. An extensive vaccination campaign was launched in Sweden, and 60 per cent of the Swedish population were vaccinated. That's an extremely high number. There were many of us who trusted the state – and we should be able to do that – who stood in line to vaccination sites around Sweden and made sure that our children and young people were vaccinated, because this virus was not to be played with. The risk of mortality was high in the young target group; it was obvious. The type of virus that appeared in 2009 hits children and young people, and we knew that when we told our children and young people to vaccinate. The number of deaths was also lower in Sweden than in other countries. But this is an extremely important issue, and we will have several debates on it. It is a question of maintaining confidence in vaccination. It's really important. In 2010, the first reports of adverse reactions were submitted to the Swedish Medical Products Agency. It was suspected that people were affected by narcolepsy during vaccination. I've met representatives of the Narcolepsy Association. I believe that all parties have done so. I fully understand the anger, the grief and the frustration. It could have been my family. It could have been my baby. Fully healthy young people have been injured by vaccines that we had great faith in, and it is a lifelong disease that we hope the research can alleviate. The Left has looked at the principle of equal treatment for all those who suffer a drug injury. For this reason, the Left Party agrees that the individual compensation ceiling for the total remuneration from the pharmaceutical insurance and the state is set at SEK 10 million per person. Several amendments have been made to the bill on the way from 2012 to now. Among other things, the age limit for compensation has been removed, and the legal framework for the notification period for assessment has been adjusted. But I assume that all the parties – not just the seven of us who support this – and all the governments that come and go also follow up on what is happening in the group. There are openings for that; it is clear. If the reality is distorted in relation to the legislation, we must of course pull the emergency brake. If the law is unable to face reality, the state must change its attitude. But the calculations we've got from the Ministry of Social Affairs... and those are the calculations that we have to trust... that we're going to keep. If they do not, I am convinced that the parties that support this call for change. I am absolutely convinced of that. On the other hand – now I come onto a sidetrack – I am surprised that we are once again buying vaccines with the same components as in the vaccine that injured children and young people. You buy two pandemic vaccines from two companies: GSK again and Seqirus. Sweden has agreed to buy these vaccines. The idea is that GSK vaccine should be given to adults and Seqirus vaccine to children as the latter should not cause side effects. This is a terrible amount of money. I will not go into how much, but it is clear that we in Sweden, in Europe, in the world are sitting on the knees of pharmaceutical companies. Perhaps we should look at this, but it is another debate. It is important that we can all rely on the authorities when they are campaigning for vaccination. We in Parliament and the authorities must therefore demand that the vaccine be studied and tested on children and young people and that we be given that information. It's extremely important. It is also important that we highlight research efforts on narcolepsy. As research in the field progresses, there is hope and opportunity for new treatments that alleviate the situation of those affected. I would also like to say that all county councils are responsible for meeting specialists. I would like to endorse the proposal and reject it.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-108	Mr President, I would like to Security of energy supply is crucial for both households and businesses. I think we all take for granted that the electricity is there when we are going to light a lamp, charge a phone or start a TV – that it is always there without interruption, obstacles or gone. It is in the same way for a company and perhaps even more important for an electricity-intensive company, such as an industry of some kind. There, a break, if only for a fraction of a second, can have devastating consequences both practically and economically. For example, it can shut down a factory for a long time with millions of costs as a result. Households and companies in Sweden should be able to count on a secure electricity and energy supply. It should be decent prices and low environmental impact. Historically, we in Sweden have done very well. There has been a high level of security of supply. There have been reasonable and competitive prices in Sweden compared to what it looks like in competitor countries. Unlike many other countries, we have had and have electricity production that in practice has almost no greenhouse gas emissions. At the moment, we have a situation where we are able to cope with both energy and effects in the Swedish electricity system in a good way. However, several major challenges are waiting around the corner. For example, nuclear power is struggling with major economic problems and challenges based on a combination of historically low electricity prices, high costs and a very high level of taxation. The government, S and MP, have made the situation even worse by significantly increasing the nuclear tax in the previous year. In 2015, it was also announced and decided that four nuclear reactors will be shut down prematurely. It is also before us that the energy companies that own nuclear power must invest in security upgrades. They must be in place by 2020. If they're not in place by then, the nuclear reactors will be shut down. In practice, therefore, we are talking about the risk of closing down in the next five years in the order of 40% of Swedish electricity production. This could have devastating consequences for both households and businesses. At the moment, the nuclear economy is such that this type of necessary investment is not profitable, not least because of a very high level of nuclear taxation. Then it becomes a political issue, in which we have to deal with this politically. It is about removing a nuclear tax. It is about reviewing the rules for the Nuclear Waste Fund in order for the investments to be in place, so that we can retain nuclear power for the foreseeable future and continue to have this secure electricity and energy system in Sweden. We in the Moderates are prepared to contribute to this – to remove the nuclear tax and change the rules of the Nuclear Waste Fund. We believe that we should continue to maintain nuclear power in Sweden for the foreseeable future. This is what can secure entrepreneurship, industrial activity and jobs in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It is in the light of this that we shall see the debate we have today, on the organisation of the so-called power reserve, on the basis of the very big challenges that Sweden has to face in the coming years. The power reserve is a kind of insurance, where Swedish power networks can buy up additional production capacity, enter into agreements with large electricity producers and reduce their consumption. Should Sweden end up in a situation where there may be a shortage, you can use this reserve. These companies get paid, and that is something we all get to pay on our electricity bill. A power reserve was introduced a little over ten years ago. It's been extended. There is now a discussion about further extending it for five years from 2020 to 2025. In the Moderates we note that Sweden is facing brutally major challenges in the coming years. We note that the government has taken a number of decisions that exacerbate rather than facilitate the management of the difficult challenges we face. In this situation, we believe that the reasonable and responsible thing is to vote for an extension of the power reserve for another five years. We are also clear from our party that there are a few reservations in this. The first is a clear statement that we are happy to see that the power reserve traded can be environmentally friendly. The second is that we think there should be a clear follow-up in 2020. It's not part of the government's proposal. We think that one should follow up and look at what the situation is in the Swedish electricity market in 2020 regarding the power situation: How has the power reserve been used, it became as green or environmentally friendly as one had ambitions about and is there reason to take extra action? The Riksdag should give the government a clear mandate on this. The third is that we believe that the government should have the task of working to find a Nordic-Baltic solution to this with the power reserve. The electricity market is becoming increasingly international. What we have to decide on today is strictly national insurance for Sweden, but the natural thing would be to expand this and see if we can find something in common between the Nordic and Baltic states. We also think that the government should have this clear mission. Finally, I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 3. A secure electricity supply with reasonable prices has long been an advantage for Sweden and Swedish companies. If we are to continue to have this, we need both to decide today on an extended power reserve, and, above all, to deal politically with the really big challenges for Sweden, not least the acute challenges of nuclear power.
i-UoQrDGXAYjbib6JqgT7KxH	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs NU19 Power Reserve, which contains a government proposal to extend the power reserve to 2025 and a number of motions from general exercise time. The Act on Power Reserve entered into force in July 2003 as a transitional solution due to a situation of more strained power balance following the political decisions to close mainly Barsebäck 1 and 2. The idea is that the power reserve should be a transitional solution for the market to maintain a satisfactory and safe power balance in the long term. This has not yet been the case, and the law has been extended on two occasions to date, in addition to the proposed extension. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of what is now on Parliament's table to extend the power reserve to 2025, especially in view of the closure decisions announced for four nuclear reactors in Oskarshamn and Ringhals. The main reason for an extension is for us the importance of having a reliable energy supply that can be maintained throughout the country at all times of the year. However, even if we support the proposal for an extension, we have comments on other parts of what the government says about the power reserve. This applies, for example, to the reasoning on increased environmental requirements for the power reserve and on the proposed escalation of the scope of the power reserve. The Government's proposal proposes a degression of the power reserve after 2017. The need for an extension of the power reserve is now driven mainly by economically forced cuts in power generation, which is just resulting in an increased need for both base and control power. In the light of the announced closure decisions for four nuclear reactors for the period up to 2020, we see it as extremely inappropriate at this stage to further attempt to de-escalate the power reserve from 1 000 megawatts to a maximum of 750 megawatts after 2017, especially since the basis for these decisions has been developed before the announced closures for nuclear power. Our view, therefore, is that the size of the power reserve should not be scaled down, but that we should continue to have 1 000 megawatts or more if there are particular reasons for it. As regards the environmental aspects of the proposal for an extended power reserve, the Government states that the environmental impact of the power reserve has so far been low, despite the fact that the production resources involved have been fired with oil or coal, mainly due to the fact that the power reserve has not been activated on many occasions. However, with an extension now, more frequent activation of the power reserve is more likely and the government then concludes that there should be room for additional environmental requirements to be introduced. This is something that we in the Swedish Democrats see as contradictory. The policy in place is supposed to protect the environment, but in reality it can now mean an increased need for both fossil power reserves and the import of fossil electricity. Nor do we see any reasonableness in including additional environmental aspects in the increased need for fossil power reserves. Political signals are being sent that the existing energy policy is not credible. It creates a need for different retrofits that are more or less unrealistic and where the additional costs of greening the power reserve will be passed on to electricity consumers. In addition, the power reserve is already covered by the ETS, where environmental aspects have already been priced in production. We therefore believe that it is inappropriate to introduce even more environmental measures when it is not likely to lead to a reduction in emissions. The Swedish Democrats' general view of energy policy is that it should be focused on ensuring the most competitive and reliable energy supply possible, both for households and for industry. Of course, renewable power production has a role to play in this, but it is important not to have a political over-reliance on the potential of these mainly weather-dependent energy sources. If there is one, it risks leading to a highly counter-productive result. The eagerness of some parties to switch the energy system very quickly risks leading to long-term dependence on subsidies on the power market. Paradoxically, for some, this can also lead to increased emissions. This report also deals with motions concerning the electricity certification system and also the proposal by the Swedish democrats to phase out that system, which we are the only one here to propose. Our view with regard to the electricity certification system is that it has contributed to the construction of installations that do not basically bear their costs. It has created an oversupply in the power market which makes it difficult to achieve profitability for investments and renovations in the existing production facilities. This is a politically created oversupply that pushes the prices of electricity on the market. We find it difficult to understand the point of stimulating further investments in plants that are not in demand on the market and that overturn the calculations for the entire power system. Our starting point for the phasing-out of the current electricity certification system is that additional new plants will not be awarded more electricity certificates but that existing production facilities will be allowed to operate their time within the system. Most of the so-called renewable energy laws, which are encouraged by electricity certificates, also have shortcomings, as many of them depend on weather. This means that they cannot be fully considered as substitutes for the basic power that is important for the Swedish industry and the conditions that exist for the business community here. The difference in the capacity factor for these power sources also drives the long-term need for a power reserve. After all, they are weather dependent, and it is more likely that they will not deliver than vice versa the days of the year when energy is most needed. We have announced it in the past, but our view is that the current system has reached the end of the road as it is designed. It does not add what is demanded and needed in the Swedish power market to maintain a good power balance. Our view is that it should be phased out. Any future support system must take into account the ability to deliver electrical energy with planned conditions, regardless of weather conditions, in order to maintain security of supply. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to endorse Amendment No 17 in the report. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, we are content only to ask for its approval.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1 and reservation No 8. Of course, we are also behind other reservations, but for time winning we do so. We are not just debating the power reserve. We also have a number of motions relating to the electricity market as a whole. I would therefore like to begin by clarifying the views of the Center Party there and then to enter into the power reserve as such. Security of energy supply and supply are crucial for households and companies throughout Sweden. Energy policy should protect the climate, provide long-term rules for investment, contribute electricity at competitive prices and secure the need for electricity, of course, when we need it. We already stated this in the Alliance's climate and energy agreement in 2009. We in the Center Party would like to see an electricity and energy system that is 100% renewable. We see, and this is the reality today, that nuclear power is phasing itself out. Even the companies themselves say that there will be no new nuclear power. Exactly when it will be closed remains to be seen. That is precisely why it is important to plan ahead, because we do not want to stand in a situation where we do not have control over what happens with Swedish energy supply. We already know that four reactors will be shut down in the near future. The decision came at quite short notice, given how long it takes to build new energy production plants. The advantage then was that we had built up a buffer. We had built up the third leg of Sweden's energy supply with the renewable alternatives alongside hydropower. We are now taking that buffer off to cope with the closure of nuclear reactors. Therefore, it is important to continue building on the buffer to stand ready when other nuclear power plants will be phased out, whenever it becomes. That is why we in the Center Party want to extend the electricity certification system to help with that buffer, so that we can also help in other countries. Through the export cables that we have and that will be built, we will be able to compete for dirty coal and other fossil power in other countries and thus be a green battery for Europe. With this extension, we also want to safeguard the crown jewel in the Swedish energy supply, hydropower, because hydropower is not only planable and delivers a large amount of energy, but can also, at short notice, reset and deliver a large amount of power, that is to say, get the energy the second you need it. It's water power unique in. It can do it in a way that none of the other renewable sources can do, nor many of the other energy sources we have in Sweden today. That is why it is so important to protect it extra and not only to extend the effect, but sometimes also to see what it is possible to expand it in the watercourses that have already been expanded. Then we also need to take account of small-scale hydropower. Small-scale hydropower is currently mainly located in southern Sweden, where we have a production deficit. Then it needs to be protected, not least legally, which is perhaps the big problem right now. We in the Center Party have always protected the individual person and the individual company in front of the systems and the great giants, and we will continue to do so in the energy system as well. That is why it is important that we have a simple regulatory framework for those who want to produce energy for their own sake. Here the government has done a lot of good things. Most recently, VAT registration has been removed for less electricity generation and can thus tick one of the old center requirements. That's great. The problem is that it is a little small potato compared to the solar tax introduced on 1 July, which applies to medium-sized and large plants for their own production. It has been said that the European Union would feel this way and so on, but there is nothing that the European Union has done in this area. This kind of tax does not exist anywhere else in Tax Sweden. You don't have to pay taxes if you set up a solar collector and create your own heat. It is true that there is an old social democratic proposal on wood tax. Well, that's out of the question, and we're grateful for that. Nor do I have to pay taxes if I bake my own bread, because I did not buy it at the store, where I had paid a tax. I don't have to do that, no matter how big my family is and how large a scale I would do it. It is simply a bad tax reform. It is a red tax increase, and even black in this case, instead of a green tax shift. There's really no justification for that. But we are not just debating the electricity market. We are also debating the power reserve. The power reserve is available as an ultimate safety net in Sweden if no other power supply is available. It is used quite rarely and consists mainly of production but also of reduced consumption. The thing is that now we are talking from a Swedish perspective, but the electricity market is not Swedish. It is primarily Nordic, but it is also linked to countries down in Europe. Therefore, it is a bit boring to just look at the Swedish needs when we talk about the power reserve. We in the Center Party have also pointed this out. We then had to call the hand of the government. But last autumn we heard that the Minister had raised these issues with his Nordic colleagues, and it is nice to feel that they also listen to the opposition sometimes. Therefore, it is very good to start those talks so that we can put this in from a system perspective, which is what we from the Center Party above all miss here. Promises that the power reserve will turn green are not seen in the bill. We see an ambition, but we cannot see concretely on paper that it will come into force, but it is up to them to decide what they want. That is a pity to us. That's where the government should do it again and do it right. We have also said this in reservation No 1. With an electricity system with more variable power – more wind power, solar power and other variable ones – the power reserve is likely to be needed more often. If nothing else, perhaps it is there to help other countries, as we are actually doing to some extent today in our neighbouring countries. Then it is important that it is fair, green and renewable. These possibilities exist; there is nothing strange. But it is not being used today, because it is not as competitive as running on fossil fuels. I think we are quite in agreement in this House that we should not be running on fossil fuels. Not least in our electrical system, which is pretty good from the beginning. Then it is clear that we should phase out the last thing we have there for the sake of climate and Europe and to be a truly green battery. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservations 1 and 8.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-155	Mr President, I would like to In an electrical system, the supply of electricity at any time must be equal to the outlet. There are two ways to make sure of this. Either you increase the supply when the socket increases or make sure that the socket does not exceed the availability of the grid, i.e. you reduce the socket when the risk of imbalance in the system is imminent. We have various tools available to prevent such situations from arising. I am, of course, talking about the imbalance between supply and withdrawal. Import is a possibility, but it is limited by the available transmission capacity in the Swedish electricity grid and the foreign connections. It may also be that neighbouring countries lack muscle just when we need effect. They simply have nothing to offer. We have the fantastic Norrland rivers, as some have mentioned. Since they have production surpluses, the problem should be solved. But it's not that simple. We lack transmission capacity from northern to southern Sweden. We expanded nuclear power in southern Sweden and thought that everything would be solved. For a while we seemed to have some sort of control of the situation, but the fact that nuclear power is uncertain for several reasons should not be news to anyone. Mr President, I would like to According to the 1980 referendum, nuclear power was to be phased out by 2010. What has happened since 1980? As far as nuclear safety is concerned, the risk of accidents has hardly diminished. If, as the Swedish people actually said in the referendum, you had for a second planned to phase out nuclear power, you should have extended the transmission from north to south and taken measures that would have pointed at least a little in the same direction as the result of the referendum. The fact that Sweden has not worked more actively to find solutions is, of course, disappointing for those who believed in the referendum. How much I trust in this referendum goes without saying. They didn't work themselves to death to follow the referendum. Moreover, the fact that the power reserve will have to be extended several times shows that over-belief in the market is just that, an over-belief. I do not understand why so little has happened in the expansion of transmission capacity within our own borders. With energy efficiency and modern technology, electricity consumption can be reduced. Thanks to new technology solutions, enormous progress has been made. However, there is no incentive for consumers to reduce their consumption, preferably the hours the load is expected to reach the critical peaks. I cannot help mentioning network charges. They piss consumers off because they linked them to the fixed charges. Many consumers say that no matter how much they try to save electricity, the electricity bill after a while is equal. You simply raise the other fees to get the money in. To then motivate customers to reduce their electricity consumption feels quite unconsolute. The continued expansion of volatile production in northern Sweden does not reduce the impact problem. That it is easier to get permission and that there are less protests are facts and speak for this, but we still lack the capacity to bring electricity to southern Sweden where it is needed. Of course, I welcome the expansion of wind power in the north, but I would like to see considerably more wind spinners on the coast of southern Sweden and preferably offshore wind turbines. I won't dwell on everything that went wrong and point to the mistakes. Instead, let us look ahead. I had the privilege of attending the opening of Fortum's combined heat and power plant in Värtan, Stockholm, on Monday. It is one of the world's largest cogeneration plants. This is actually the first time that I feel that everything is not wrong that is done in Stockholm. 190 000 normal-sized apartments can be supplied with both heat and electricity from the plant. With more such investments in connection with rail and metropolitan areas, we are getting rid of the peak loads that mean that we need to procure a power reserve. And I like biofuels as fuel. The more people that do not burden the heating grid, the less peak loads in the electricity balance will occur when the cold strikes. This is an example of many that you should work more with in order to meet the target of 100% renewable energy by 2040. Then, hopefully, the need for an power reserve is a mere memory. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has no objection to the extension of the power reserve itself, and we support the proposal. However, as far as the electricity market is concerned in general, we have a more ambitious view of how to drive forward and work towards a zero emission target in the EU by 2050. All electricity generation should then be renewable. I therefore propose that point 9 be added to paragraph 5.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-171	Mr President, I would like to Such a hot summer day as yesterday when Stockholmers and all tourists outside the Riksdag went around in shorts, it can be difficult to understand why energy policy is valuable. It is easy to forget how important it is to keep the light on and the element warm. But in January, when we had negative degrees in Malmö, Stockholm and Luleå, the situation was different. Then it was vital that we could warm ourselves indoors, that our hospitals and kindergartens could raise the temperature of the elements and that our industry could continue to produce Swedish successful export products. It was in January that the power reserve was used most, i.e. the reserve for really cold, windy winter days that we are debating today. Liberals are concerned about what an extension of the power reserve means for the climate. As we know, the reserve for part of the oil power plants is capable of burning up to 220 tonnes of crude oil for a few hours on a cold winter morning. This corresponds to the same amount of fuel that is needed for 1 000 trucks to drive the Malmö – Stockholm route. Burning oil does not lead to green politics. Nor does it bring to mind the recent Paris agreement on climate change. Liberals have therefore been careful to place environmental requirements on the power reserve. Mr President, I would like to In February last year, the government invited a seminar on the power reserve. The idea was then that it would end and end completely. What then happened was that despite very low electricity prices, the government chose to increase the power tax on nuclear power. This contributed to our being told last spring that four reactors will be shut down prematurely. Four reactors are one third of the Swedish population. We thus lose a number of years of reliable, climate-friendly electricity. On the same day as the announcement of the closure of the reactors, Minister of Energy Baylan held a press conference announcing the extension of the power reserve. There is therefore a clear connection here: less reliable Swedish electricity gives increased need for a reserve. The most important measure to ensure that we can keep the lights on and the element warm in winter without damaging the climate is therefore to abolish the impact tax – not to extend a dirty power reserve. However, at the critical stage of Swedish energy policy today, both are needed. Mr President, I would like to I just mentioned that it was very cold in January. We then had to start the oil power plants that are part of the reserve. Another consequence of the cold, windy winter days was that we imported electricity at certain times of the day. Of course, it is not a problem in itself, but a positive one that we can trade electricity with each other in a cross-border market. Unfortunately, however, it is often a question of importing dirty electricity that comes from oil, coal or gas. When it's cold with us, it's often cold in the neighboring countries. When there is still wind in Skåne there is often still wind in Denmark. This means that the electricity we import comes from fossil electricity production. The climate will then be ironed on the foot. We have thus disposed of Swedish nuclear power which emits no emissions and instead made us more dependent on oil power plants on the one hand and imports of fossil electricity on the other. It is not a very fresh and green development for energy policy lately. The equation is therefore simple: The longer Sweden can contribute a surplus of Swedish emission-free electricity to the Nordic market, the more we can displace fossil energy sources. Mr President, I would like to There is another very important aspect of energy policy which is too rarely discussed. It is the fact that we are closely linked with our neighbours in the Nordic region and across the Baltic Sea and have a Nordic electricity market. It is therefore not very wise for each Nordic country to plan for its own effect solution. For common challenges, we need common solutions and closer coordination between our neighbours. We often talk about this, but concrete proposals still shine with their absence. Last week I visited Lithuania. There are energy policies and experts very happy that there is now an electricity cable to Sweden. At last, we can defend our free society and our democracy, they say to me. For Lithuania, security of electricity supply is equal to freedom and independence. This is the thinking of a people who have long been occupied by Russia and dependent on Russian gas. This is the thinking of a country that was under Russian pressure as late as the 1990s and lost its gas supplies. Many of the people I talked to had memories of what it was like to sit in the school hall with the jacket on and how families slept in the same bed to keep warm. Energy policy in Lithuania is not just taxation, electricity systems and technicalities, but is about freedom. The joy was great on the other side of the Baltic Sea for the new Nordbalt cable. On the other hand, they were less happy with the news that the Swedish government wants to put an end year for nuclear power. Lithuania had set out to be an importing country but now sees a risk of being without Swedish electricity if the Swedish government's policy has an impact. The government's policies are thus also damaging in other countries. I think we need to put a greater Nordic-Baltic mark on our energy debate. The Liberals therefore want the government to investigate the possibility of a Nordic solution to the power reserve. We need less talk and more workshop in our cross-border work. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to emphasise that we accept the extension of the power reserve because we are in a critical situation, partly because of the government's increase in the tax on power. However, there must be clear environmental requirements on that reserve. In addition, we want to see a follow-up to the Act on the Power Reserve with a clear feedback to the Riksdag. We want to see a reconciliation by 2020. We have a number of reservations, but for the sake of simplicity, I am only in favour of reservations 1 and 3.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-189	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin my speech by calling for the Alliance's reservations 1 and 3 and for the Christian Democrats' reservation 18. A secure and secure energy supply is an important engine in our economy and crucial to our well-being. Swedish industry, all companies and consumers should be able to trust that there is a stable and reliable electricity supply. Long-term rules of the game and stable conditions in the electricity market are of great importance for Swedish jobs and Swedish competitiveness – we know that. For us Christian Democrats, it is therefore important that political decisions regarding Swedish energy or specific electricity supply are taken with care and long-termness, in order to avoid uncertainty in the electricity market. However, we see that current market conditions with low electricity prices and the government's dismantling of nuclear power, with increased power tax and not least with increased property tax on different plants, have created the great uncertainty on the market that many are experiencing now and which has contributed to the premature closure of several reactors. In view of this uncertainty, we Christian Democrats believe that it is necessary to extend the power reserve beyond 2020 in order to ensure the availability of electricity at extreme power peaks. In addition, the power reserve is calculated to have ten reactors in operation for a number of years to come, but we now know that this will not be the case. The fact that even more reactors than previously announced risk being shut down prematurely naturally increases the importance of the power reserve. For our part, the power reserve could have been extended to 2030, against the Government's proposal for 2025, to ensure a long-term sustainability of the electricity market. We are all the more keen to make a reconciliation in 2020 and possibly 2025 and to evaluate the need for a continued power reserve. That is why we are no stranger to the fact that the decommissioning of the power reserve may take place before 2025, if there are conditions for sufficient energy supply in the market. However, we believe that an extension to 2030 would have been justifiable in view of the situation we find ourselves in now and based on the fact that both industry and industry in general would have needed a longer-term perspective and a reliable energy supply in order to be sure to be able to operate in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We also believe that the procurement of the power reserve should take place for three years at a time towards one year, as it is today, of course, in order to ensure that operators are compensated for production which they are nevertheless expected to provide and that they are able to make the necessary investments in the facilities in question. We also believe that the procurement could take place for the whole year rather than just the period specified today. The climate change we are experiencing and the risks of various natural disasters and other things seem to be not so great in our part of the world. However, it does not reduce the need for a long-term perspective for those actors who are expected to contribute to the power reserve. Due to the limited transmission capacity in the core network from north to south, it is particularly important that southern Sweden is taken into account when purchasing the power reserve. We Christian Democrats believe that the Öresund Agency, the natural gas-fired combined cycle power plant, with several environmentally friendly alternatives could be included. Today, however, we know that the Öresund plant is also in a moth bag. If we look at the overall energy market, we see that in a very short time there has been an almost total dismantling, although perhaps that is to be taken in. Yet, there are significant changes compared to just a year ago. It also brings us, Mr President, to our reservation by the Christian Democrats on the electricity certification system and the changes that may be necessary to stimulate those parts of renewable energies that may be relevant precisely to stimulate new technologies and a new focus on energy policy. Of course, everything has to do with what capacity we have in total. We should be able to use the power reserve when there's a crisis. When something special arises, it should be there. But what we have day-to-day, what we should be able to use here and now, tomorrow and the day after, also affects the capacity we have in the power reserve. That is why the text of the Alliance's reservation on the environmental requirements of the power reserve is important. I spoke earlier about the Öresund Agency, but there are also other plants that could certainly be used in this context with greater environmental requirements, with renewable energies and with new technologies if, as I said, we stimulate it through a new type of electricity certification system. It is my conviction that it needs to be changed and renewed and that we should not maintain the old technology that is in the system that we have today. Everything influences each other in energy policy and in the actual everyday life.
i-BVKsXa5NKGUaYz1886Srto	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 19 on the power reserve in connection with the Government's proposal to extend it for the period 2020 – 2025. This report also deals with 17 motions, with 46 different motions, from the general exercise on a wide range of general electricity market issues. Mr President, I would like to For the sake of order, I would now like to support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations. Central to our electrical system's function is that the supply of electricity in every second, yes in every millisecond, is equal to the outlet at the exact same time. In short, there must be a balance in the system. This electricity, of course, comes from the production of various power sources throughout our country. It is mainly hydropower, nuclear power and wind power. But production can be found both within Sweden and abroad. The electricity that is added thus also consists of imports via foreign connections with cables to our neighbouring neighbouring countries. It's cables that are getting more and more. At the beginning of the 21st century, including after the closure of the nuclear reactors in Barsebäck, the then Social Democratic Government and the responsible authority realised that Sweden could end up in a situation where the consumption of electricity was at risk of exceeding supply, i.e. that power shortages would occur. Then the Power Reserve Act was created. Originally, the law was created to apply for a transitional period, until 2008, pending the creation of new production resources and the creation of new market solutions to meet the needs that arose. Thus, the law was intended to expire on the last February 2008. The power reserve then included a capacity of 2 000 megawatts, consisting of both additional generation capacity and demand reduction, i.e. that large users via agreements with Svenska Kraftnät lower their consumption at risk of power shortage. The bourgeois alliance government then felt obliged to extend the validity of the law twice during its reign. It was first done in 2007 with validity until 2011. Then, in the light of its famous energy settlement, a new extension was decided in 2010 with validity until 2020. Obviously, some reliable market solutions were not in sight at the time, although the current law contains a gradual de-escalation. We are in a situation where the electricity market is facing major challenges and is undergoing profound changes. We see a market with stagnated demand, and we see historically low electricity prices. We see a market where old production capacity is at risk of being knocked out and where investments in new production are difficult to count home. We see that large investments are being made in increased transmission capacity, primarily within the country from north to south, but there is also a continued expansion of foreign connections. These are important investments, but they are investments that take time to implement. At this point, the government will, of course, realise that, during a further transitional period, we need the type of insurance that a reasonably-accepted and dimensioned power reserve is. It is an important piece of the puzzle to ensure security of supply of electricity all day long hours all year round. Therefore, the government is now presenting its proposal for an extension of the power reserve until 2025 in the current proposal. The understanding of the need for this is also shared by a united Committee on Industry, which is of course very gratifying. Mr President, I would like to The existing power reserve, which in the winter of 2014– 2015, consisted of 874 megawatts of production capacity, was made up of coal and oil-fired power plants. Of course, due to the fact that they have almost no use, it can rightly be said that the environmental impact of the power reserve has been extremely limited. Nevertheless, it is of course wise for the government in the bill to enable the responsible authority, that is to say the Swedish Power Network, to impose significant environmental requirements in a future procurement. However, the design of these environmental requirements is better suited to a regulation than to legislation. That is also what the majority of the committee supports. The scope of the power reserve is now limited in the present proposal, and the de-escalation of the power reserve is fixed. The way in which this production capacity can be met may vary. One option is increased imports, as has been mentioned earlier, primarily in collaboration with the Nordic countries. Of course, if each country is in the long term to cope with its impact problems to 100% within the national borders, we have quite quickly built up a capacity market, something that most people in other contexts claim to be opposed to and want to avoid. Therefore, the Nordic TSOs, that is, Svenska Kraftnät and their counterparts in our Nordic neighbours, have been commissioned by the energy ministers to come up with proposals for a Nordic wage. This proposal will be presented in 2017. Therefore, I think that the alliance parties' somewhat different reservations in this part mean that they are breaking open doors. Similarly, with the proposals for the follow-up to the power reserve decision. The government's view, which is shared by the majority of the committee, is that the two authorities responsible for following the issues of security of supply and the balance of power in the country, i.e. the Energy Market Inspectorate and Svenska Kraftnät, are fully capable of following up the issue of the development of the power reserve. The Alliance parties' proposals in this regard could be interpreted as a way of shifting the boundaries between the responsibilities of the authorities and the responsibilities of politics in a somewhat surprising way, i.e. less authority and more politics. It is not every day that you hear these voices from that direction. Mr President, I would like to The report deals with a wide range of motions, some of which stem from the general exercise time and deal with what might be referred to as general electricity market issues a little simplistically. It is symptomatic that the motions, like the reservations in the report, are a bit sprawling. All in all, these are issues that are essentially dealt with in the intensive work that is currently being done within the Energy Commission. For my part, the brief answer to these motion requests is: Let the Energy Commission, where your parties participate, carry out its work in order to achieve a long-term, broad and cross-block energy policy settlement. I will briefly comment on some of the issues raised in the report. With regard to the issue of electricity networks, in particular what we call the core network, the majority of the committee, like the government, considers continued but adapted network expansion to be essential. However, the committee believes that the work that Svenska Kraftnät does and has done with its perspective plan, its ten-year network development plan and its three-year rolling investment plan respond well to the needs that are taken into account in the various movements in this area. The need for future investments in the electricity grid is multifaceted. These are technical challenges, new types of production and production methods, the need for storage, increased internationalisation and more international connections. The list can be drawn up on a long basis, with significant investment needs. Both the Energy Commission and the Committee have reason to come back to this in the future. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I will say something about the electricity certification system. In autumn 2015, the Riksdag decided to raise the level of ambition in the joint system with Norway. This means that some of the general exercise on the subject mentioned in the report are somewhat overtaken. The question of the future of the electricity certification system and its development is discussed intensively in the framework of the Energy Commission's work. It's pretty natural. For this reason, and because we have a new control station in 2017, some of the issues that revolve around the electricity certification system are a little too early. Mr President, I would like to We have reason to come back to the vast majority of issues in this report, probably already this year. Finally, I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-218	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to Ingemar Nilsson, because in his world everything is so simple. Of course, the easiest thing to do is to sit in a government position. I probably would have thought so, too. But that it's so easy to dismiss everything that other parties do, I think makes it all the more interesting. Ingemar Nilsson says that the movements are unnecessary and overplayed – I don't know how many words I could find that describe what unnecessary work we MPs from the alliance parties are doing. It's a question I feel I just have to ask Ingemar Nilsson. It applies if the Energy Commission should now address all energy issues, as we from the Christian Democrats have said a number of times that we want to see. Then there has been one after another that has not been lifted into the work of the Energy Commission. Does Ingemar Nilsson really think that we will then sit still in our chambers and think, yes, if it does not get into the Commission's work we will not do anything? On the contrary, it is surely the case that we are using the instruments and tools we actually have. The last point Ingemar Nilsson made in his speech concerned the electricity certification system. That is also an interesting question. What do the Social Democrats want with the electricity certification system if it is so unnecessary to even raise the issue in this context?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-221	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Penilla! Whether it's easy to rule or whether it's harder than being in opposition, I don't know. The Alliance government was given the opportunity to rule for two terms of office, and if it was that simple, I do not know. Some of the results can be seen here. It was not that simple; the power reserve had to be extended on two occasions, despite the fact that there were other prerequisites for energy policy at the time. So what is simple and what is difficult is perhaps a bit tricky to decide on here in the speaker's chair. When I say that exercise is over-played, it is about the motions that say no to a change in the existing electricity certification system. They are clearly written before the Riksdag decided to raise the level of ambition in the electricity certification system, so in that sense they are obviously overplayed. The Parliament has already made those decisions, and the motions have been written before the decisions were made. It is not a way of criticising the motions that someone in this House writes, but it is simply to say that the Rules of Procedure are such that some things are being overplayed. There's not much we can do about this right now. With regard to the electricity certification system, in answer to the question, it is no secret that we from the government and from the Social Democrats have supported an extension of the electricity certification system. But let me say that it does not automatically duplicate the existing system. It needs to be reviewed, and I'm sure we need to change parts of the system. However, an extension is needed to stimulate new production capacity, which is not quite simple in the market situation we find ourselves in. We have said that quite clearly. Penilla, I have a question to ask you back. When I listened to your speech and when I read the motion you have in this context, I did not understand what you are saying about the fact that you want an power reserve that ends earlier than 2025 – at the same time as you want to extend it to 2030. What do you really want with the power reserve?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-225	Mr President, I would like to If Ingemar Nilsson has read both the motion and the report, it should be quite clear that the Christian Democrats would have liked to have seen it extended to 2030, but precisely with a reconciliation every five years – or actually every three years. We do not see this with an power reserve as something of Gud given to be forever, but it is about being able to test it and see if it is necessary or not. That is exactly what you have really opposed, that is to say that you should be able to try and see after a certain time how much power you need, if you need the reserve and what type of power reserve we are going to have. Should it be just a Swedish reserve, or should it be a Nordic or a Nordic-Baltic reserve? What's it gonna look like? What interests me here is Ingemar Nilsson's answer in relation to the fact that motions are overplayed in relation to the electricity certification system. I am aware that this is a very important part of the future supply of electricity. Part of our mission to the Energy Commission is to look at all parts of the different types of energy that exist. If it has not become clear in the past, I can point out to all Members and listeners here that there is a very funny passage in the report we are dealing with today on this particular subject with the power reserve. If the Energy Commission or anything else happens in the future that is decided, it will be taken into account. I don't know if it's really come to light, but it's quite interesting. I just read it. This means, of course, that it should reasonably apply to all the issues we raise in this context. Or how does Ingemar Nilsson view it?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-229	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me go back to the discussion on follow-up and so on. I said something about that in my speech. I have to say that I am a little surprised that Penilla Gunther, but also the other representatives of the Alliance, wants to turn operational responsibility for supervision and follow-up of activities from a rather pure authority responsibility – we have authorities on their agenda to do this – into a responsibility that lies with politics and this House, which will then be concerned with monitoring the power reserve and its consequences. I have to say, I'm a little surprised by that. I think it is a fairly good division of labour between politics and the authorities when it comes to monitoring this type of instrument, and I think the government also thinks so because it has no other proposal. A little in the same way it is with the division of roles between the Energy Commission and the government. We've discussed that before, Penilla and I. It is clear that we must be able to have an operational policy in the field of energy for which the government is responsible. The Energy Commission is a government investigation, and it cannot be a decision-making body. We are going to discuss all kinds of issues, and we are going to make proposals based on what we come up with. We will certainly come back to that in relative time, but that is not where decisions can be made. We can provide a basis for this, and we can make scenario descriptions. That is our mission, and we will do so for both short-term and long-term issues. However, it is the government that must make the operational decisions, and that is how it should be. I would like to conclude by once again emphasising the fact that it is in no way a disparaging description of the motions. If you read this carefully, however, you can note that some of the movements take their starting point on the conditions that applied prior to the parliamentary decisions on the electricity certification system that were taken before Christmas. It is only to be regretted that this is the case, but there is nothing disparaging about it. I urge you to write even more motions in the field of energy policy. I think that's what we need.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-233	Mr President, I would like to I note that some of the opposition politicians in this House do not lack the creativity to turn virtually all debates into a general nuclear debate. Let me make a few comments on this. We are now in a situation where nuclear power owners have decided that four of Sweden's ten nuclear reactors will be closed by 2020, because they are unprofitable. The main reason why they are unprofitable is the increased safety requirements with independent core cooling that have come about since the Fukushima accident. The parties criticising the closure of the four reactors should reasonably respond to the economic saving of nuclear power or simply do not want the increased safety requirements of nuclear power. The argument has been put forward that we should export electricity to other countries for climate reasons, but it only seems to apply if it is nuclear electricity that is exported. When the government makes proposals for investments in renewable electricity, the Moderates, Liberals and Christian Democrats say no with the argument that there is no need for more electricity in the Swedish electricity system. Thus, having a surplus of renewable electricity does not seem to attract. The government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party has presented a policy for 100% renewable energy. We believe that a plan is needed to get there. In the electricity market, some power generation is getting old and will be shut down. Then we need a buffer. Ensuring that there is enough electricity all hours of the year is crucial in the electricity system. There are many tools to ensure this: regulatory production, flexible consumption and transmission of networks to our neighbouring countries. This report deals with the so-called power reserve which was introduced in 2003 and which is an additional certainty in extreme situations if the need for electricity is unusually high while production is lower than necessary. The link between low temperature and electricity consumption only exists if electricity is used for heating, which is inefficient and should be phased out gradually. If we can reduce the need for electric heating, we will also be able to reduce the challenges in the long term with high peak power. The power reserve has never been thought of as a long-term solution, but it is still needed for a while as a transitional solution. The Green Party welcomes the Government's proposal to extend by five years to 2025. The proposal is for the power reserve to be gradually scaled down, from today's 2,000 megawatts to 1,000 megawatts in 2017 and then 750 megawatts thereafter. It is positive that the Government has also given the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate the task of analysing demand response as an important tool for managing the demand for power. With new technologies and incentives for electricity consumers to be flexible in their consumption, power peaks can be reduced, saving the individual money and providing a more efficient energy system. The main principle is that consumers react to price signals based on supply and demand. But the potential for more active electricity customers is huge. In the future, I believe that regulated production, storage, network expansion and demand response will have a greater role and that the power reserve will therefore not be needed. Since the introduction of the power reserve, it has been used very rarely and can more be seen as a form of insurance. The existing production in the power reserve consists of fossil energy, a coal-fired thermal power plant and three oil-fired power plants. With the government's increased climate ambitions and the work for a fossil-free Sweden, it is reasonable that there should now be environmental requirements on electricity generation in the power reserve. I welcome the fact that the bourgeois parties are now calling for environmental requirements in the power reserve, but the question arises, of course, why they did not introduce it in their eight years of government and on the two occasions when the power reserve was adjusted during the time of the alliance government. The Government notes that within the framework of future regulations, there is scope to set clear environmental requirements for the procurement of production capacity. Minister of Energy Ibrahim Baylan also stressed the importance of environmental requirements when he presented the proposal to extend the power reserve at a press conference earlier this year. There are technical possibilities to replace fossil fuels with renewables. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to ask for the approval of the proposal and the rejection and rejection of the reservations.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-244	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only apply for reservation 1. Sweden contributes to creating peace in several Muslim countries. Although we have decided to return to an invasion defense and struggle with that task at home, we allocate personnel to international peace operations. We do this because we think it is important. It is important to stop and stop processes in foreign countries where people are suffering and where their humanitarian rights are trampled on. We can allocate certain military human resources, but not so much. The financial resources for international peace operations should be taken from the aid budget, as this is aid. Do we need to increase the aid budget? Yeah, in the long run, it's possible. We take care of our actual defences on the home front or elsewhere, such as in the Gulf of Aden, where our direct interests are threatened. Participation in international peace operations has its special conditions. Opponents of these wars have no large complex units or expensive advanced equipment systems, but they war with guerrilla tactics and sometimes they do not comply with the laws of war. It makes it hard for our boys and girls out there. In Mali, just like when we were in Afghanistan, IED and other mines are a scourge. Depending on the development, heavier mine-protected vehicles may become a requirement of the Malian force. Optimism was too great when the Arab spring broke out. Many believed that the entire MENA area was rapidly becoming democracies and emerging welfare states. Unfortunately, this optimism was based more on homemade notions than on real observations in the area itself. Much suggests that the democratisation of the MENA area will take time and that the development must start from within by people from the area. At the same time, it is important not to allow pessimism to become too big. Islamism should be suppressed if possible. Then forces in the region should be able to establish energy for democratic development. They have seen where democracy has brought Europe and what fruits they can enjoy if they also succeed. The flow of refugees to Europe, on the other hand, must be broken forever. To accept that there are continuously more flows of refugees into Europe is like saying that it is okay that the people themselves in the area should not deal with their problems. Refugee problems should be solved in the local areas in the same way that Sweden helped Norwegian and Finnish refugees during the Second World War. That goes without saying. At the same time, it is important to always have good long-term planning for all international peace operations. We voted against the Libyan operation partly because there was no intention of bringing in ground troops – boots on the ground – after the air operations, and partly because it was very unclear which side should be supported. We were right about Libya. Today, the situation on the ground is catastrophic. It is also partly because of the Libyan operation that we need to have a Malian operation today. Large quantities of armaments have been brought into Mali from Libya. What will once seriously break the shackles of poverty is trade. Buying a country's goods brings more power than giving it subsidies. It's a bit like the Chinese have affected Africa. And so it would be good if it were on our side in the long run too. Trade is not to be exploited, trade is to build a greenhouse on what may dawn in these countries. The report draws attention to the problem of Medevac in the context of the Malian operation. The fact that the Indonesian Medevac helicopters, which are supposed to help the Swedish soldiers, are incapable of darkness, is unacceptable. The Indonesian helicopters are of the same basic model, Superpuma, as those we have just dismantled in the Swedish defence. Although our Superpumas were adapted for search and rescue and had of course darkness ability. The lack of darkness in Indonesian helicopters binds our soldiers at night to being close to the base, and it is also a major risk factor. Darkness should be a standard in these operations. I would also like to express my thanks to the Swedish soldiers and officers who give us a reason to be proud. Ing 2 staff built the Swedish camp, Camp Nobel. The 32nd battalion from Karlsborg and now the 71st battalion from Revinge has so far been the task force. Swedish soldiers and officers have a reputation that was once again consolidated: They are wise, capable and courageous. You're the heroes of our time. It's hard for us to even understand how heavy it must be to wear a full battle mundering in the 50 degree frying sun. The Committee on Defence often receives praise for your work and what you have done, Swedish soldiers and officers.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-262	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. It is gratifying that, with such a broad consensus, the Swedish Parliament will hopefully be able to decide later today on the effort that we are now debating. It's about sending women and men out on dangerous missions in the world. What today's debate and decision is about is an extension of the operation in Mali until the end of June 2017, provided that there remains a valid mandate for the force as decided by the UN Security Council. To be able to extend this effort now is important from many points of view. Sweden, for example, has the appropriate expertise and equipment to carry out what the UN is asking for. Sweden's contribution to Minusma provides an opportunity for a renewed knowledge of the UN's peace-promoting activities. It is knowledge that will also be valuable to Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces, including if the opportunity is given to participate in more UN-led efforts. Sweden's contribution to Minusma, a intelligence company, gives the UN better control of the events in the troubled northern part of Mali, where also UN soldiers themselves have been targeted by terrorists. The presence of UN soldiers in this part of Mali is essential if the civilian population in Mali is to return to normal life. The background to this mission is the ongoing conflict in Mali, which has destabilised the country for several years and has had a negative impact on its neighbours. The armed conflicts in Mali pose a threat to regional as well as global peace and security. The effort is important for Mali, but also for the whole world. If we can avoid another state falling apart, there is an enormous amount of gain. In Mali there are two different political conflicts, on the one hand the political conflict between the state and different groups in the north regarding self-government, and on the other hand the conflict with armed Islamists who want to introduce sharia laws and form an Islamic caliphate. For both types of groups, control over the illegal trade flows passing through Mali is of great economic importance. The solution to the conflict is complex and cannot focus solely on limiting conflicts. In fact, we must also help to solve the root causes. Here the UN Security Council resolution is clear. The Minus principle has four main tasks: support for security, stability and protection of civilians, support for national political dialogue and reconciliation, support for the restoration of state sovereignty throughout the country and support for the parties to fulfil the peace agreement. The objective of Swedish participation in the operation is, according to the Government's proposal, to contribute to the fulfilment of Minusma's mandate in accordance with the Security Council Resolution. Since development cannot be built without security, it is logical that Sweden participates in a military UN-led operation, while Sweden contributes through aid to stabilise and support Mali's development. If humanitarian work is to be successful, there must be as secure and secure an environment as possible. Sweden's long-term aid to Mali amounted to SEK 180 million in 2015. In 2016, we estimate that it will amount to approximately SEK 200 million. We know that Sweden's humanitarian aid to Mali in 2015 amounted to nearly SEK 65 million. Swedish support is channelled through the UN, the International Committee of the Red Cross and international and Swedish humanitarian organisations as well as through expert personnel made available through the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency. Sweden also provides comprehensive basic budget support to humanitarian organisations that make significant efforts in Mali and its neighbourhood. For 2016 we plan to give 53 million SEK in humanitarian aid to Mali. Regarding the request for follow-up and evaluation of international efforts, it is positive that the committee is clear that the government should formulate follow-up objectives for the Swedish operation and indicate how it intends to evaluate the Swedish effort towards the goals set. We Social Democrats welcome this. When the issue was dealt with by the Committee in 2012, we had a reservation in which we stressed that, as early as 2008, we pointed out that a national strategy for Swedish participation in peace and security promotion activities should highlight how foreign, defence, security and development policies mutually enrich each other and create a well-thought-out whole that lays the foundation for broad, well-planned efforts. Madam President, I would like This is important – not least because it involves a significant responsibility to send Swedish troops on missions abroad – that the objectives and motives for Swedish contributions to international efforts in the field of peace and security promotion are clearly stated. It is also difficult to make an overall statement of the scope, focus, costs and more decisions on priorities or to analyse how Sweden can respond to possible needs for action in the future. A well-carried out analysis can provide important lessons for future engagement, for example in terms of governance of civil-military collaboration, collaboration with the host country's authorities, impact on Swedish competence and ability, and the results at a societal level in the recipient country. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to thank all those who serve in Sweden's international efforts to promote peace. It is the willingness, sacrifice and risk-taking of these Swedish women and men that enables Sweden, through their work, to contribute to international peace and security.
i-TxJP9AHiDTKCrgbBohEezz	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister Per Bolund, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist and Minister Aida Hadzialic. A question shall be of a general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and to the performance of its duties. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-278	Madam President, I would like Exercise activities are now increasing in Sweden. It is welcome and a result of the defence agreement that has been reached. Exercises are important. This teaches you, and you draw conclusions from the state of affairs of personnel and equipment. Some day ago, an evening newspaper was able to report that during the Cold Response exercise in Norway with about 2,000 Swedish soldiers who participated, communication equipment did not work in the desired way, but instead they had to use their own civilian mobiles. This is a shortcoming which has been identified in the past and which, of course, must be resolved in the long term. On Monday I was also on site in Boden on I 19 and have received broad information about this excellent exercise. With exercises we identify flaws. At the same time, there will be serious data on various material projects that may be more expensive than planned. We may face important strategic choices. My question to the Minister for Defence is: with new shortcomings identified and possible cost increases, are reduced ambitions or calls on the need for more money to secure our directional decision preferred?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-282	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It was a well-extended question that asks me in some sort of defence situation here, but I am not going into that trap. When you get costs and problems in the organisation you look at how to deal with the problems, what kind of cost pressure you have and what kind of priorities you can do with the material projects. That is something I assume should have occurred during the time of the previous government, and it certainly occurs during the time of this government. We are actively working on handling material issues. When it came to the Brigade Management exercise, I visited the leadership regiment yesterday. I have also had a thorough review of this in the past. It is good that any shortcomings will come to light, because then you can fix them. We don't paint. We see the truth.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-285	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry the Secretary of Defense doesn't want to fall into my trap. I'm gonna have to make an even bigger bear pit. But this is important. I share the view that we have identified the problem that is now being addressed. We also know that there are some other challenges, and we have a number of material projects ahead of us that may involve costs. It is therefore important that we stop, as soon as possible, engaging in dry swimming without seeing the reality as it is. Then we have to make a strategic choice – a reduction in ambitions or an increase in funds – and I do not want to lower ambitions.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-288	Madam President, I would like Now it is definitely not that we are in a dry swim situation. The things we do every day to process cost figures are real and real and take place in relation to the authorities. I assume the authorities are doing everything they can. Otherwise, you cannot act as a government. I cannot stand in this Chamber and promise a lot of money to one and the other. My mission also includes keeping within the limits that we have set in the defence settlement that exists.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-290	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Per Bolund. The government will shortly come forward with a proposal to grant temporary residence permits to those who have fled from war and who have long-term protection needs. It risks creating uncertainty and vulnerability on the part of individuals even though they are already here and we know in principle that they are here to stay.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-293	My view is that we must open the way for people to enter the housing market. We must ensure that people can demand housing. This runs the risk of getting people into unsafe housing conditions and undeclared contracts, and of simply having to squeeze in with acquaintances. What will the government do to prevent this?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-294	Madam President, I would like I think it's good to give a little history description of how the development has been over time. Sweden has had a very humane and humane refugee policy. We have also made a great effort to take care of the difficult situation that many people in our surrounding world have ended up in. Sweden has also received a lot of people. That is something I am proud of and hope that we are many proud of. We are well aware that it also creates a huge pressure on Sweden. This made us feel compelled to simply tighten the conditions for asylum reception. This means that we now have temporary legislation which is precisely creating restrictions. But of course we have to make sure that people still get off to a good start in Sweden. We do so through many efforts. We're spending half a billion on start-up efforts. With regard to the housing situation, which was specifically addressed here, it is a very broad approach that the government has to create opportunities for more housing, lower costs and also create housing for people with low incomes. We must take a broad approach to this issue.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-297	Madam President, I would like I am to a limited extent interested in the government's migration policy. What we are talking about now are people who are here. The escape is over, and there is no way to send people back to Syria for the foreseeable future. There are facts on the table. The question I ask is: what is the government prepared to ensure that these people are not forced into a housing market where they are exploited and in a labour market where they are exploited when they have precarious housing conditions? Which bank will give a loan to those people?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-299	Madam President, I would like It is important to see that we are currently in a process to take care of the people who have come here and create the best possible conditions for them to get a good start. We do this widely by, for example, investing in education, ensuring that people get the language with them and creating better asylum accommodation so that they really get a good start in Sweden. There is also the possibility of obtaining a permanent residence permit, for example, by getting a place on the labour market. There we know that there is a great deal of commitment and interest and that many employers also offer this opportunity. I simply do not share the assessment of the totally closed door that is being painted here.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-301	Madam President, I would like With noise and bång, Mehmet Kaplan announced more than a year ago that over 3.2 billion of taxpayers' money will be spent on housing subsidies. They are to be given to developers to build homes that would not otherwise be built. The government calls it the biggest housing policy initiative in two decades. When Mehmet Kaplan was fired, it was his greatest achievement, they said. The truth is probably that it is the biggest abuse of tax money that the government has been dealing with. First of all, property owners don't want the money. Secondly, it is also impossible to ensure that the money will go to the most resource-efficient or only to small rental apartments, which were so heavily marketed. Worse still, this 3.2 billion has not yet been paid out. The situation is greatly delayed. Ma n don't know what to do. I have travelled around the past year in Gothenburg, Malmö and Stockholm and seen houses that are ready that would have these subsidies and where they applied for the funds. My question to the acting Minister for Housing is: should subsidies be given to builders whose homes and houses are already ready?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-304	Madam President, I would like First of all, I'm not acting. I'm the Minister of Housing. Then we'll see what the government will look like in the future. I have taken full responsibility for housing issues. I think they are incredibly important and that this is an important policy area in which we also act strongly and do a lot. The government has made proposals and allocated resources corresponding to the largest housing policy effort in 20 years. It's something I'm proud of. The initiative includes both direct support to create more rental apartments and support for municipalities that take on greater housing responsibility and ensure that detailed plans are drawn up and more housing will start to be built. We need a broad approach, because there are many issues that need to be resolved in order to get housing construction started. Happily, we are now seeing a rapid development where many more homes are being built. We are now working intensively to develop the regulation for how the money is to be distributed. However, the work is not ready yet, and I cannot therefore give definitive answers here and now.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-307	Madam President, I would like The least you can ask is for the government to announce whether to give money to houses that are already ready – houses that did not need subsidies – instead of giving the money to what the Liberals are proposing. For example, we want to invest 400 million in increased housing allowances for the elderly and for single parents. We want to bet money so Syrian families can be reunited. Instead, it is money that you use to give to rich builders who do not need it. Property owners do not ask for this money, and according to all research they are ineffective. Are you going to give money to increase construction or not?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-309	Madam President, I would like The important thing here is that we are making a big effort and that we now come up with the resources needed to get the construction going in a sector that has not worked throughout the time that the Alliance has been in power. There has always been a huge deficit in rental apartments, especially small rental apartments with a reasonable rent. There we are now making a great effort. We will come up with proposals in this area, and these are proposals that are really needed. We see that the commons are already beginning to increase their construction. More rental apartments are being built precisely because the government is taking these steps. That is something that I think we should both welcome.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-312	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. First of all, I would like to welcome the Minister back to Skaraborg. It is nice that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is travelling all over the country and that the Minister is visiting the countryside in Skaraborg for the third time in a month and is looking at the small and large food producers that we have there. Food production enables both men and women throughout the country to live on their wages. I was going to link the minister's visit to Skövde tomorrow to the food strategy that is being developed and ask the question: Can you also connect the strategy with the Swedish model and ensure that we get jobs throughout the country and security throughout the country? Can we ensure that men and women throughout the country can live on their wages through the food strategy and the Swedish model together?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-314	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. The Swedish model is about ensuring that the whole country lives. It's not about part of the country. The national food strategy is largely about jobs in rural Sweden. Primary production employs about 50 000 people, and the food and beverage industry employs 55 000 people, mostly in rural areas. If we increase our food production, jobs and opportunities to live, live and work in rural areas will also be much better. The question is not really where – in which countryside – food production should take place. My answer to the question is that it should happen much more in Swedish countryside.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-316	Madam President, I would like That sounds reassuring. During the last term of office many jobs disappeared in the Swedish countryside. If we can reverse this trend now that jobs are growing again and more people are getting jobs and making sure that everyone in the whole country benefits. But it is also important that we ensure that we then make demands on collective agreements and that we ensure that men and women can live on their wages. We shall ensure that the welfare of the whole country is safeguarded, and that is where I believe the food strategy may be linked to the Swedish model.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-318	Madam President, I would like Absolutely it can. Food strategy is a guide. What does Sweden want with food production? Should we get food, as we do today? This means that we collect 50% of the food from a world that may need it more than we do. We know that the companies working in this industry employ many people who have come to our country from elsewhere. This industry employs most of them. Even a great many young people get an opportunity here.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-320	Madam President, I would like I have a question for our Secretary of Defense. Sweden has again participated in a major exercise in Norway, and there are recurring problems. Some people have made complaints, and newspapers have also written about this. It is quite complex to lead compound units, as the Management Regiment has done, via satellite and with new staffs that are temporarily assembled and not combined. The fact that problems arise is no wonder. On the other hand, I wonder, the Minister for Defence, whether we are doing the right things when we have these great exercises with international, temporarily assembled units. Or should we highlight the exercises more within Sweden and practice more here? If there is time left, I would like the Minister to comment on the introduction of the new liaison equipment.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-325	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. According to the specialization proposal decided by the Riksdag, all units will practice until 2020. These exercises include a focus on a national scenario. International exercises are also necessary. It is part of the bilateral and multilateral organisational cooperation in which Sweden participates. Cold Response is an important exercise that we have participated in many times, and we will also participate in it in the future. What has come to light on the connection equipment is interesting to me. I got a review of it yesterday at the Management Regiment, and some shortcomings have been identified. Much is due to the fact that brigade management has been reduced in Sweden because it ceased for a long period when we equipped down the defence after the Cold War ended. Now we are building up this capability again and adding new technologies. It is a challenge, and it is good that it is illuminated.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-328	Madam President, I would like I know that the Minister of Defence knows that the rolling stock plan phases out the Radio 180 system, switches to other bandwidths and so on. I myself have participated in the exercises in Nordnorge. When you do an evaluation after such an exercise, you can decide that specific units will practice, and practicing is important. Then the evaluation will show if we practice correctly. Does the Secretary of Defense share that view?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-330	Madam President, I would like I have taken note of the initial part of the evaluation carried out on, among other things, the Management Regiment. It is good material that can form the basis for the assessment of future exercises. It can, as Mr Richtoff says, form the basis for the future. Old equipment – or how we should designate it – will gradually be phased out, and new ones will be added. In doing so, it is important to build up the skills to manage new equipment at the same time.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-333	Madam President, I would like Many people urgently need access to Swedish education within SFI. We Christian Democrats want to teach language even when the asylum procedure is in progress. There should also be a mandatory social orientation about what applies in Sweden with both rights and obligations. We want to encourage and give new arrivals the opportunity to stand on their own feet as quickly as possible and get a fresh start here. Since the lack of language teachers is great, we need to be inventive and not rigid in order to resolve the situation. In SvD, Minister Hadzialic recently stated that in Sfi there is a problem with driving forces that are about making money instead of focusing on the quality of teaching. I would like to ask the Minister: why should not those who do school education, as many women do, have the same opportunity to run business with profit as those who build the school, which is usually men, and those who sell teaching materials and in outsourced activities clean, cook and care for caretakers?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-336	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question. Those who come to Sweden should of course learn Swedish as soon as possible. That is why the government has invested in something that we have called Swedish from day one for asylum seekers. It's been a huge success. Only in six months have more than 73 000 participants learned Swedish while waiting for a message if they are to stay in Sweden. Of course, we also need to strengthen the SFI. We must have more teachers, and the business must have more money and resources, which it did not get under the previous alliance government – I inherited a eroded SFI. We must also ensure that the whole school is not driven by profit interests, but that the prerequisites of pupils, teachers and quality of education are considered to be primary.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-339	Madam President, I would like Now the question was precisely why all those who build the school, produce teaching materials, sell gymnastics tools, build bike racks and pave parking lots and schoolyards get to run their business with profit and not those, often women, who run the teaching itself. There, the possibility of operating the business with profit shall be deprived of them. Why this differentiation?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-340	Madam President, I would like For this government, it is extremely important that our tax money is spent properly. Every penny of tax that we invest in welfare should go to welfare – to school, care and health care. Unfortunately, we now see that there are undue winnings. We are even unique in this regard. This government is not going to contribute to that. We have the best interests of welfare first and foremost.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-342	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to use your own subjective experience and anecdotal evidence as a basis for your political analysis, but now I intend to do it anyway. When I applied for upper secondary school at the turn of the millennium and entered an IT high school, there was a promise that we would each have a laptop and that the computers would be integrated into the training itself. But once we started it turned out that we got the computers but the teachers never really took advantage of the fact that we had all the world's knowledge in our hands, but they stuck to the traditional education. Maybe it looks better today. I do not know if the students in the gallery agree with me, but I think we still have problems to ensure that digitalisation is taken all the way and used by the teachers in the education itself. I am curious about how Minister Hadzialic views this development.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-346	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for a very important question. We know that a school at the forefront, a world-class school, must be a school that also reflects its time. Then we must have a school with a well thought-out digitalisation strategy that it follows. It is about having an infrastructure at the forefront but also that you adapt the teaching to reflect it. This is why the government has developed a digitalisation strategy through the Swedish National Agency for Education. Among other things, we look at how programming can become part of the teaching so that we train future innovative abilities that can be part of making Sweden competitive even in the future.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-348	Madam President, I would like I can imagine that newly graduated teachers who have recently attended teacher training may have a better ability to use the new technology. How do we ensure that even teachers who have great competence and long experience of previous education systems also have the full opportunity to take on new teaching tools using IT?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-350	Madam President, I would like In addition to adapting the teaching itself to a digital era, we must, of course, ensure that teachers have the skills they need to carry out their mission. Part of the digitalisation strategy that the Swedish National Agency for Education has developed is that teachers should also get the skills they need to master what we want them to be able to do in order for us to have a truly world-class digital school in this respect too.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-353	Madam President, I would like The Alliance government was driving with great success, I say, the vision of Matlandet Sweden. This vision led to new jobs, new businesses, increased exports and activities around food at schools, preschools, retirement homes and the like. The Red Green Government dismantled this vision the first thing it did and said it would be replaced by a food strategy. Now it has been a long time, more than a year and a half, since this vision was phased out. A large void has arisen. Now my question is: will there be a food strategy, and when will such a strategy come?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-355	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eskil Erlandsson, for the question that is very important! As far as the food strategy is concerned, this House has already been exercising three or four years ago to develop a strategy. The government that Eskil Erlandsson was part of rejected the proposal on several occasions. When this government took office, work was immediately started. I understand that Eskil Erlandsson feels a certain frustration that it takes some time, but this is an important thing, and it will be worked through. However, we use parts of Matlandet Sweden, which was more of a gourmet project with very good parts, in the strategy. It will come, and it will soon be handed over to Parliament.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-357	Madam President, I would like That was not a specific answer to my question about when the vision of a new food strategy will be realised. We've been waiting a year and a half now. A lot of actors are waiting for the void that has arisen to be filled with some content. So the question remains: when will the strategy come? Question two is: how is the consensus that the Government wants with the opposition to be achieved when we have not yet seen a result?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-359	Madam President, I would like We are filling the void that has existed for years. The strategy will be submitted to Parliament before the summer break. We have had a very broad dialogue with the whole industry, with stakeholder organisations, and also the opposition has been invited to several meetings in the country. A dialogue has therefore been conducted. Now it is a question of getting this to the House and then it is also a question of Eskil hopefully making sure that the opposition does not put political prestige in this.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-362	Madam President, I would like Gustav Fridolin is responsible for the area I was going to ask about, namely primary school, but since he is apparently busy with something else today, I ask it to Per Bolund who answers general political questions today. Compared to other countries, a Swedish student misses almost a whole year of teaching time. If we are to be able to reverse the results in the Swedish school, our students need as much time with a teacher in the classroom as students in other countries. The Moderates suggest that the teaching time should be increased by one hour per day starting in primary school. At the same time, our focus on more mathematics in high school remains. All in all, we spend 6 billion on more teaching time. That's what the government says no to.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-366	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for an urgent question. I think we all share the concern about the development that has been in the Swedish school for quite a long time. We have seen falling knowledge results but also other negative results, for example in terms of well-being. Many young people feel vulnerable and end up in difficult, both physical and psychological situations. That is why the government has done a lot and continues to do a lot in the field of education. There are two different ways to choose. Either you increase the quality of teaching and try to make it work as well as possible, or you increase the quantity and try to give as much instruction as possible. The government has chosen to focus on the quality of education. We hire many more teachers, many more adults in school so that quality can be improved. We make sure that there are more adults who can meet the students and answer the questions they have. We simply make sure that the students get the knowledge they need and go out with a passing grade. This is an extensive and major effort. For 2016, EUR 8.3 billion has been added to the school and preschool. We also invest in increased teachers' salaries and many other areas.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-369	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. But that wasn't a real answer to my question. I asked you a very simple question. It can even answer with yes or no. Swedish students spend much less time in school compared to children in other countries. Does the Government think that's a problem? Does the government say yes or no to more teaching time?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-371	Madam President, I would like The distribution of time in school is ultimately a matter for the profession. It is important for expertise to be involved in designing curricula and how time in school should be allocated. The basic problem is that too many students finish school without passing grades. They cannot then move on to higher education – upper secondary school, university or college. We also have major problems with falling levels of knowledge. We have focused on managing it by increasing the quality of teaching.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-374	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Hadzialic my question. The issue has already been addressed in the past. It is about the need for really good language teaching also for the new arrivals. Civil society, just as Hadzialic mentioned earlier, draws a huge load of Swedish from day one. The various study associations make many efforts to strengthen the quality of this. The Government mentioned earlier the importance of being careful about how each individual crown is used. She mentioned that the objective was to reach 23 000. More than twice as many have been reached as expected. However, there is concern that the resources available for that area will end as early as August. Is the Government prepared to provide additional resources for this successful work to continue?
i-SgxuMyZJJP7g8NAd1sAPQp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulrika Carlsson, for your question! To begin with, I am pleased that we agree that the study associations and peoples' education are making an important contribution to the activities called Swedish from day one. They certainly deserve credit for that. We need to extend SFI education and adult education in the same way, so that the people who now come to Sweden will be able to get out of work as soon as possible. In all draft budgets, both the budget proposal and the spring budget, the government has strengthened the activities of study associations as well as the SFI activities so that they can meet these challenges. I see that we will have to do the same also in the future. How much remains to be seen in the draft budget, which will be submitted this autumn?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-379	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My question remains in part. If you already feel in August that the money is running out, the autumn budget will come a little late. My hope is that the government will ensure that the great commitment of civil society actors, in the form of study associations, will remain. I hope that the government will be able to overcome the concerns that the important activity will not last after August.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-381	Madam President, I would like As I said, the government invested heavily in the Swedish language in the budget bill that we presented last autumn. In the spring budget we invested heavily in Swedish education, both Swedish from day one and SFI. We have therefore strengthened, and the activities will expand as they follow now. I think we have done what is needed at the moment. We will, of course, evaluate the activities in the future and make the necessary budgeting also this autumn.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-384	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Bolund. As spring flowers take out, our banking system withers. More and more banks are closing down. ATMs are removed. 1 1⁄2 million people in our country have difficulty handling their payments. In my county, Jönköping, 86 percent of bank accounts had cash handling in 2011. Now it's 26%. Older people, associations and small businesses in rural areas are affected. Two months ago, the payment service investigation was submitted to the government. The government said that he would analyse the referee. Now I ask, isn't it time to act?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important question, Peter Persson! But it is perhaps a bit overdramatic to say that the banking system is withering. In that case, it may be in the eyes of the assessor. The Swedish banking system is in fact relatively good and stable. One of the background to the question is that we have a rapid technological transition, a shift in the economy. Sweden is at the forefront when it comes to moving to digital payment solutions. This is fundamentally positive and opens up new opportunities for all of us consumers. We can choose more freely how we want to manage our finances. At the same time, there is an important issue here. Many people are being squeezed because they cannot or do not want to use the new technologies. Here I think the banks are running away from their social responsibility. They are responsible for ensuring that customers can use the methods they want. I have had a dialogue with the banks and will continue to press for them to take greater responsibility. But the state also goes in, through the County Administrative Board and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency and other actors, to cover up where there are shortcomings.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-390	Madam President, I would like The banks make huge profits. The lines have fantasy wages. The bonuses are blooming. And you cast a disdain for ordinary people; Wahlroos, President of Nordea, says: We are 20 p.m. talented and fooling the 80 per cent of ungifted money. It's one way to look at ordinary people. I think, Bolund: Get a bill! Legislate on guaranteed service level!
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-393	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that the government takes very seriously and which we are very committed to. As I said, an investigation is now on the government's table. We have received referral points. They're not unambiguous. There are quite a few different views and views. That is why it takes time to prepare the issue and to try to reach a common position. The issue is a high priority. We solve the acute problems here and now by making money. But we must also find a long-term solution. It includes drawing up this proposal and putting it on Parliament's table. We're working on that as a matter of urgency.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-395	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. After the prices of butter and skimmed milk powder were record high in 2013, prices dropped sharply in 2014 and 2015. The fall in the prices of butter and milk powder is due to increased supply on the world market, reduced demand from China in particular and Russia's suspension of imports. The EU's increased intervention purchases of dairy products have also increased dramatically and may be a short-term solution. At the same time, however, a mountain of butter and milk powder is being built up that needs to be disposed of on the market, which could risk prolonging the crisis. On 17 May, the Minister for Rural Development will meet his fellow ministers at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council and discuss, among other things, the market situation for milk in the EU. My question to the Minister is therefore: how does the Minister for Rural Development view a system of voluntary reductions in milk production in the EU? Does the Government intend to work for such a solution as part of dealing with the current crisis?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-399	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the question. The Swedish position is that we have nothing against the voluntary reduction of milk quotas as long as the EU budget is not used for it. It should be voluntary, and you shouldn't be spending money on it. Milk production is in a very deep crisis. It does not only concern Sweden or the EU. The crisis is global. There's a big overproduction. That is why this issue has been dealt with at every Council of Ministers in recent times. There are various activities to reduce the surplus. Sweden's position is that it should be market-oriented and not put in measures that drive production up to an even higher level where there is no demand.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-403	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We Swedish democrats believe that we first and foremost have a responsibility nationally by, for example, reducing the tax on diesel for agriculture and forestry. You can also have a grazing allowance, as we propose in our budget. It can also be seen that EMB, the European Milk Board, has developed a model in which farmers voluntarily reduce their production. The EU crisis fund of EUR 400 billion and possible penalties could then be used. But, as I said, I welcome the fact that the Minister for Rural Development will be able to use this work in the future.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-406	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, a combination of action by the EU and national funds. For example, the crisis package that the EU allocated to the various countries meant that Sweden received 76 million in EU support. We had 100% co-financing and went in with Swedish funds. In total, the dairy farmers thus received a crisis package of 152 million. Then we have reduced the diesel tax reduction, which deteriorated during the alliance government on four different occasions. It will be a clear improvement for the dairy farmers.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-408	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister Per Bolund. In the asylum process, it is important that there is a difference between a yes and a no. Anyone who has received a rejection of his asylum application must return to his country of origin quickly. Otherwise, the alternative is that we have a large shadow society where people live hidden and go bad, often in great vulnerability. Today, the situation is unclear as to whether a person who is illegally in Sweden is entitled to financial assistance or a contribution from the municipalities. Here different municipalities make different assessments. That is why we Moderates want to clarify and tighten up the legislation. I think the general rule must be clear. Anyone who does not have the right to stay in Sweden should not have the right to receive a grant from the municipalities. But my question to Minister Bolund is whether the government is willing to tighten up the legislation, so that anyone who is not entitled to be in the country is also not entitled to a contribution from the municipalities.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-411	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Svantesson, for an important question! Sweden is currently under quite a lot of pressure because we have a lot of people who have come to our country for a short time. The government is also acting resolutely on this issue, as I am sure it has been noted. In the spring budget, we spent SEK 30 billion to enable the Migration Agency to fulfil its duties. It is about the asylum process and about shortening the processing times but also about providing decent conditions for those who have come to our country. We have invested a lot of money in integration, because it is also an important task. The police have also received additional funds to deal with situations that arise, for example in the case of returnees. The question of aid for those who have been rejected is a question that we are preparing within the Government Office. We do not have a clear position there so far, so we will have to come back to that question later.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-415	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, although it was not quite clear! I would like to send something with the government, namely what the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils have written in a referral opinion. I will quote what they have written: National law should correspond in such a way that a person's illegal stay in Sweden is not made possible and financed by the municipality. I think that this sums up what should apply, and I hope that the government will take this on board. I'm yes, and no is no. This must also be the case in the case of grants from the municipality.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-419	Madam President, I would like Our most important task on the part of the government is to create order in these processes and to ensure that a clear answer can be given as quickly as possible to whether or not you have the right to asylum. And if you do not get the right to asylum then it is a question of having the opportunity to return in a controlled and orderly manner. At the same time, I think there is a danger if you leave a large group of people entirely to their fate. I do not think anyone wants to see a situation in Sweden where we have a very large group of people who are in a grey area or in a black zone. We also need to take responsibility for the people in our country.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-422	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to the Minister for Defence. Marine development projects have for a long time been characterised by a high degree of innovation. I am thinking of Visby corvettes and our next sea-operative helicopter, Helicopter 14. Now there is a discussion about the next generation of submarines, the A26, which is planned to have a pod for personnel at the front of the bow. One should be able to release frogmen into underwater position for special operations. The problem actually consists of two parts when it comes to this capsule and the lock. It is questionable to have joints in a pressure hull that should sometimes be at several hundred meters deep. It also reduces this capsule and the space to keep weapons on board. My question to the Minister for Defence is: What measures is he prepared to take to make the next generation of submarines safer for our sailors and more dangerous for an opponent?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-426	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the question and the level of detail that Mr Widman describes in relation to the demand for an answer. Let me put it this way: it is an extremely complex weapon that is developing, as we have ordered. It contains an enormous number of components and is very modern and adapted to the specific conditions of the Baltic Sea with its brackish waters. It also contains very many different types of abilities that can be used for both military and civilian use. Widman here describes one of those parts. As far as the details of the actual design of the submarine are concerned, I think the wisest thing is that this kind of reasoning is being carried out in a forum other than this House, because here any promises or detailed reasoning leads too far. We will try to get a submarine that contains all the performance that is ordered.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-430	Madam President, I would like There are certainly no small details we are discussing now. It is about up to SEK 10 billion that these development projects will cost. When the Minister of Defence describes the new submarines as extremely complex, nothing leads to my becoming more calm, rather the opposite. I believe that the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament is also intended to discuss the kind of issues that we are discussing right now, namely how our defence can prepare for the risk of a war in our neighbourhood and what it means for our platforms.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-432	Madam President, I would like We, from the government, have set a cost framework of 8.2 billion for the two submarines that are now ordered and are under production. It's like the value we've assumed. Then they contain a variety of properties and a variety of abilities. The one you describe is one of them. How these things are to be handled with accuracy during the process itself is something that is to be considered in these contexts. It is also the case that FMV is the party that has the relationship with Saab.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-434	Madam President, I would like A month and a half ago, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht received the Rural Committee's interim report. It was a united committee, in which all of the parliamentary parties supported the four proposals for a more vibrant countryside. Firstly, Sweden needs a more coherent and active rural policy. Therefore, the government, together with the Riksdag, must formulate long-term political goals for the development of Sweden's rural areas. Secondly, it is about access to good mobile coverage and broadband. Yes, it is a prerequisite for living and running businesses throughout the country. The government must formulate an objective as soon as possible, so that the whole population can have broadband by 2025. Thirdly, the provision of skills is one of the biggest challenges for our rural areas. Women and men who want to live in our rural areas should also have the opportunity to acquire higher education without having to move. Fourthly, the state has much to gain from a good presence throughout the country. Today we have a far too urban state. 60% of the head offices are located in Stockholm.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-440	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. As regards the implementation of the Committee's proposals, the Committee has not submitted a final report. They have submitted a partial report in which they have taken a position on the issues that you relate to. But there are a lot of things that this government has done when it comes to Swedish countryside during this time, not least in the area of broadband. There we have historically large amounts of money. This is 3.25 billion for broadband investments in Swedish rural areas. It is also 1.2 billion for Norrland to connect local networks. We have also invested in rural shops. In the rural programme there are 752 million dedicated to ensuring the rural shops plus 35 million for the shops located in the farthest part of the Swedish countryside. We have therefore taken a lot of action already, but I think the Committee's proposals are interesting, and it is also a united committee. Congratulations to the Committee!
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-443	Madam President, I would like I am a little surprised by the rural minister's reply and wonder what the rural minister is waiting for. We have a completely united parliament, where all eight parties in Parliament say that here are four proposals that we agree on and can proceed with. If the Minister puts them on Parliament's table, we can vote them through and make a difference to Sweden's rural areas. Now, instead, the Minister refers to money, 35 million, which is small money in a state budget to the country merchants. He refers to SEK 3.25 billion available for broadband support throughout the country. But they're over, and we know there's a need for more resources. There are four proposals that can make a difference. It is time to put them on Parliament's table!
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-446	Madam President, I would like The interim report was submitted on 31 March. It's not that many days ago. A great deal is under way and is already being done, but it is still a partial report, and I look forward to the final report coming in January 2017. The government also works with skills provision. There has never been so much investment in new training places as at present. As far as the state presence in the form of government jobs is concerned, we see that they actually remain in many places.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-448	Madam President, I would like Even my question, a little on the same theme, goes to Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. For decades, the death of the shop and the death of the station have spread in Sweden. Especially in the years of bourgeois government, it ravaged quite intensely. Therefore, it was very gratifying that the government initiated an investigation in 2014 which last year presented its proposal for more sustainable support for services in rural areas and that the government and this Parliament also decided to provide funds to implement the support. My questions to the Government are: How are the payments going? Does the Government consider that the aid will have an effect so that it can halt the impoverishment of rural service points?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-451	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the important question. As a rural resident, I know how important it is that there is a shop where you can buy food, get fuel for your car and packages and pharmacy goods extradited, etc. That is why it is extremely important that we ensure that these shops remain, because it is just as the questioner says: the number of rural shops has fallen dramatically over the last ten years, and this must be stopped. That's why we go in with 35 million to support these stores so that they can remain and even so that one or another new store can open. It's been a huge interest from the shops. The payment began on 1 April, and already on 2 May 26 stores had received support. Another 100 stores have applied for the grants. These are now being dealt with, and the idea is that they will be told quite quickly.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-454	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think it is important that support for commercial services should also be broadened. Today there is a need to pick up mail and packages, and it is also about other contact areas that we rural people have with the state, such as Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan or what they might be. It is about banks, pharmacies and much more. How does the Minister view the possibility of keeping such so-called rural service points?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-456	Madam President, I would like It is important to develop the stores to become a little more than just grocery stores, become more of service points. There are also opportunities in the rural development programme for investment that is considerably greater than in the past. This is more than a doubling of investment aid. It is 88 million a year that these stores can apply for investment money precisely to develop their store to become a service point. The government's attitude towards the designation of IS abuse as genocide
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-459	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Per Bolund, who is responsible for the horizontal questions today. In yesterday's debate on the Middle East and North Africa, all parties except the government parties chose to name Isil, or Daish's, abuse of Christians and other minorities in Iraq and Syria as genocide. More than a year ago, Foreign Minister Wallström referred to these events as genocide. My question is simply: I wonder what the government parties really think. Does the government consider these abuses to be genocide?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-462	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Enström, for the question. What we can say is that the abuses committed by Daish, or ISIL, are astounding and frightening. These are flagrant violations of human rights and violations of human rights at a level that we have not seen for a very long time and which the Swedish Government, of course, is acting vigorously to try to curb in various ways, at least through cooperation within the UN system, internationally and within the EU. What is actually being done to try to reduce the problems that have been caused in the local area and for the people who have been affected is, from my point of view, a much more important issue than just putting a label on the phenomena. I think that is what we should be doing our main work, and that is also where the government is shutting down its commitment. I cannot answer in detail what the name looks like and how to work on that issue at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, but the government takes these questions very seriously and acts decisively.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-465	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely convinced that we fully agree that these terrible abuses must be stopped. At the same time, however, I have to ask the question again because we had a long debate here yesterday about whether it was up to Parliament to decide what this should be called. However, since we have heard different names from the government, I would like to ask the question: do you think it is to be regarded as genocide or not? Why is the government not investing in increased funding for the International Prosecution Office?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-467	Madam President, I would like Sweden acts resolutely and intensively in every way we can to try to reduce the problems that exist in the Middle East and also in other parts of the world. This is why, among other things, the government now has a very high level of ambition when it comes to Swedish aid. We are trying to act, and we are also pursuing an active foreign policy in which we are constantly trying to be present in the areas of conflict that exist. Exactly how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on the question of how to name these events is a question that I will have to come back to, because I have no answer to that. However, I can give the clear answer that this is a question that is high on our agenda.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-469	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. It's about boars. In two years' time, it is estimated that there will be approximately 700,000 wild boars in our country. They are increasing explosively, and we know that fields, mowing embankments and gardens are being demolished by these pouting wild boar flocks. There are also 3 000 traffic accidents a year, about 60 a week. This needs to be addressed in some way. The launch must increase. I also think that those affected, farmers and others, must be better compensated. Last night we had a chamber debate where I raised this. No one from the government parties touched on this issue, and I therefore think it would be interesting to hear the attitude of the government. What does the Minister intend to do to remedy the problems caused by wild boar in our country?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-472	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. We have a very large boar strain, although it varies depending on where we are in the country. Some parts have had big problems but have got a balance in the tribe, but there are also places in the country where wild boars go very hard on agriculture, not least. It is, of course, the case that you have to shoot them off and manage the tribe better than you do today. There are also suggestions for camera monitoring of these wild boar baits that are in preparation. There was an inquiry into this, but it was a very serious criticism of the proposals for better monitoring in order to be able to shoot down the tribe. There are therefore some further considerations that need to be made before we can make any proposal in this area.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-475	Madam President, I would like One important reason for the explosion is that the firing is so low. Then why is the launch so low? One reason is that it is difficult to get meat on the market because of the rules. I wonder what the government has been thinking about reducing the regulatory burden and making it easier to get meat out to customers – of course, while maintaining quality and safety?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-476	Madam President, I would like Wild boar is a difficult animal to hunt. I know that personally. In addition, they are often hunted during the warm time of the year, which means that it is not easy to take care of the meat. Wild game inspection facilities have the right to take care of the meat in order to bring it onto the market. There are many who are pushing the issue of taking care of meat privately, but there are great risks of doing so privately in view of the trichina problem.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-478	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Bolund. It is about the investigation against money laundering and terrorist financing that has been presented. Today there is concern that there will be a large state register where all associations, the whole of civil society, will be registered. Opinions differ if the register applies to whole civil society or associations with so-called 90 accounts. It is serious and difficult for civil society if everyone is to be registered. There are small associations which would probably not be able to do so either economically or personally. There is concern. What's the deal? Should all associations enter the large state register, or is it only the associations that hold 90 accounts?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-482	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, which concerns a hugely central area. We were previously at Daish and other organisations that are engaged in a horrendous business. Financing for terrorism is an important policy area in which we need to act resolutely in order to reduce the opportunities for such groups to act. The same applies to money laundering, which finances illegal activities in Sweden. It is therefore important that we take major and important steps forward. Of course, there must be an assessment of other social values. Civil society plays an extremely important role. We must also safeguard the possibility of continuing to act there. The investigation is now on the table of the government, and we are preparing the question. We will have to strike a balance. Exactly where we are going to land is not the time to say now, but we will have to come back to that.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-485	Madam President, I would like I look forward to seeing the investigation. I hope that when you work on this that you remove linguistic barriers. Today there are clearly different interpretations as to whether these are all associations or associations holding 90 accounts. So you're not really sure what's going on. That must not be the case. It should be clear, clear and concise. I hope the government will take it with them.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-486	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your comments. We will certainly take the questions with us. At the same time, it is important to see that this is an international movement in which the countries of the world have gathered together and are acting vigorously. They try to find international principles. Sweden obviously intends to be in the front of that movement and have no worse regulations than others. If, however, it is found that certain sections of civil society need to be included, we must ensure that there are conditions for associations to implement what is imposed on them. That is a question we will have to come back to later.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-489	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Aida Hadzialic a question. Recently, through the media, we learned that three students who had submitted exactly the same task to different teachers received different grades. That brings us to the question of the equivalence of ratings. The National Agency for Education has recently presented a report on the grades. It states, among other things, that a majority of Swedish teachers find it difficult to achieve an equivalent rating. Of course it's a matter of concern.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-493	Madam President, I would like This government wants to build a world-class equal education. For us to achieve that goal, we need equivalent and fair grades where students know that what they are doing and when they make an effort will lead to grades that reflect this. Unfortunately, there is a system failure at present. I would really like to emphasise that it is not about individual teachers and pupils' achievements where students who perform the same thing do not receive the same grades. Of course, it needs to be stopped. There must be more external correction of the national exams, they need to be de-identified and students rewarded for what they can – not punished.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-495	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Agency for Education's report, to which I referred earlier, shows that a majority of teachers believe that the knowledge requirements are unclear. Many teachers see problems with threshold effects. Students can be unduly severely punished if at some point they make a weak performance. This leads to a follow-up question: How can we go from punishing to supporting rating systems?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-497	Madam President, I would like The new grading system is good because it places higher demands on students' performance. I think that the new grade scale works well with more nuances so that it is possible to capture what the students really can. At the same time, we have seen that the new grading system leads to pupils feeling punished for what they cannot rather than being rewarded for what they perform. It can also be motivational killing, which is something we should put a stop to.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-498	That concludes today's Question Time. I thank the participating ministers and Members.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-499	Madam President, I would like Sweden's efforts to promote peace contribute to peace and security in troubled places around the world. By participating in international efforts, we also strengthen Sweden's security and our political influence. There is really no contradiction between the defence of Sweden and peace-promoting efforts abroad, but of course it is always a resource issue at the end of the day how much you can invest in one or the other. There is now extensive work going on at the UN to review the modalities for everything from conflict prevention to peace-building and peace-building efforts. For Sweden there is a great value in being able to contribute to the UN's peace-promoting efforts. By participating in them, Sweden often contributes to increasing the ability and competence of the operation itself, and by more countries contributing, the operation will gain greater legitimacy. As the House is well aware, Sweden is currently participating in the UN-led operation in Mali. It is called Minusma, and that is what we are debating here today. This is Sweden's first major effort under the leadership of the United Nations for many years, and it is very important to maintain stability – or regain stability – in this part of Africa. The situation in Mali remains uncertain, although the situation has improved slightly since the security crisis in 2012-2013. A peace agreement could be concluded in June 2015, but the situation in the country is still very tense. Last year there were attacks also in southern Mali, which had not occurred before, including two spectacular hostage dramas in hotels. By June last year, the majority of the Minus Force had arrived. 44 states contribute to the MINUSMA mission. The United States UN Ambassador has called Minusma the most dangerous operation in the world for UN peacekeepers. The heat, the many armed groups, the lack of infrastructure, road bombs, kidnappings and diseases make the mission difficult and risky. Many UN soldiers have also had to put their lives to death. Of course, we must take this into account when making this decision. But we know that efforts of this kind are not risk-free, and that is precisely why we are prepared to send the personnel of the Armed Forces. In the bill, the Government proposes that Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces continue to provide an armed force – it is a maximum of 470 people – at their disposal to be in Minusma until the end of June 2017, provided that there is still a valid mandate for the force as decided by the UN Security Council. The strength will normally amount to approximately 320 people on site. As stated in previous contributions, this contribution shall form part of the overall intelligence structure of the operation. The Swedish unit also includes a national support unit with, among other things, a qualified healthcare component, analytical functions and staff for the operation and maintenance of the base and its structure. In addition, according to the bill, it is intended to continue to place staff officers at relevant staff. As I said: The main task of the Swedish unit is to provide support for the implementation of Minusma's mandate by contributing to the operation's intelligence unit. This is an ability that is new to the UN. That is something the UN has not done before. That is why it is of course particularly important to be able to monitor how it works. We Moderates support the proposal to make a Swedish armed force available to Minusma until the end of June 2017. The committee agrees on this and welcomes the fact that the Swedish operation's contribution to enhanced security and stability in Mali is being made in accordance with the mandate of the UN Security Council. It is also stated as the purpose. We will work to ensure that Minusma's mandate is fulfilled. At the same time, Madam President, Swedish contributions to international peace-promoting efforts should also have national objectives. That is why we and a united Foreign Affairs Committee in their announcement, on which we hope that the House will decide today, believe that the Government must specify the objectives of the Swedish contribution. This is to make it clear to the Swedish Armed Forces what our decision is, but also to make it possible to follow up and evaluate the Swedish contribution. Then the targets must also be quantified. The committee considers that the operation should be analysed and evaluated on an ongoing basis in order to decide whether it should be amended or extended, or whether there are grounds for reducing or changing the scope and appearance of the operation. As I said, Madam President, Mali is a very poor country with a great need for support. It is therefore important that we have a holistic view – that we not only stare blindly at the military effort in Minusma, but that we also have effective development cooperation. That's what we have with Mali. Stability in Mali is important for the region. Sweden shall continue to provide assistance to Mali. It should be focused and of course coordinated with all the efforts we make in the country. Long-term is important. Mali will need Swedish support for a long time to reach peace, stability and development. It has been said before, but it can be said again: without security there will be no development and without development there will be no long-term security. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the proposal in the report. Of course, I would also like to thank all the women and men who have participated in the peace-promoting efforts made by Sweden. It is a difficult and risky mission that we are grateful to them for carrying out.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-514	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We are facing a further extension of the Swedish armed operation in Mali. That is our contribution to Minusma, a very important effort. The extension is valid until mid-2017 and can reach a maximum of 470 people. The Green Party, of course, welcomes the extension. This is an important effort, and we note that the intelligence work that Sweden has contributed has been important for the entire UN operation in which we participate. Madam President, I would like Mali is a very poor country. It is ravaged by drought. Children, women and men suffer from malnutrition. There's a shortage of medical care. Only one in four can read and write. Only one in four lives on more than $2 a day. That is to say, 75% of the population lives below the poverty line. The average life expectancy in Mali is only 52 years. On top of this, Mali is a country ravaged by conflict. Armed Islamists are spreading in order to create a caliphate. The children, the women and the men are having a hard time. They live in a tough environment, and the spread of terrorism is a threat to the whole world. Madam President, I would like Because of this complex picture, it is important that we work broadly – that we have good development cooperation, that we provide the important humanitarian aid, but also that we participate with military support as we do here with Minusma. Mr President, I would like to It is my fundamental conviction that military action should be taken as a cargo resort. First of all, you should work together with your partners to build a good environment, and you should work with conflict prevention and peace-building measures. It is also something that the government will soon tell us that it will be working on even more. But sometimes military action is also needed to create security opportunities, which in turn create opportunities for further development. Mr President, I would like to The announcement given about Mali, the setting of targets for Sweden's operation in Minusma, is fully in line with what the Green Party thinks and has already said before. That is why it is so good that we fully agree that objectives need to be set, so that the effort can be more easily evaluated, just as we do with our efforts in development cooperation. With these words, I would like to call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-523	Mr President, I would like to This is the second time that we in the Swedish Parliament will take an annual decision when it comes to an operation in Mali. The first one we took just over a year ago. This, in turn, was the first time in a long time that we decided to take part in a UN operation. That, of course, was in itself important and correct. It was important, because the UN's ability will never be better or greater than what we as members of the UN can do. There are, of course, lessons to be learned from this in a little different ways. Its mission is to support the security, stability and protection of civilians. We know that the people we've sent out have made a difference. We know how to save people from attacks outside Timbuktu, for example. It is a question of providing support for national political dialogue and reconciliation. It is important in a country that has great challenges. It is about aid to restore the sovereignty of the state throughout the country – to rebuild Mali's security sector, to promote human rights and humanitarian aid. It is also crucial because it is a state that was falling apart and is still in danger of doing so. It is a question of giving support to the parties to comply with the peace agreement, and it is also vital. The Swedish operation we are discussing today is the military part, but it is not the only part. As the report shows, we also have aid and humanitarian aid to strengthen the conditions for the success of the entire Malian operation. In the Center Party's opinion, Sweden should seek, prevent and militaryly create the conditions for development, be able to be a force for peace and also participate in reconstruction. There is a clear mandate for international law here, and we assume, of course, that it will apply throughout the year before us. As I mentioned, Mali was falling apart. Internal tensions pushed forward what could have been – and for a great many people – a very difficult humanitarian situation. There's a risk of civil war. We are talking about the Tuareggerilla, armed Islamist groups such as Aqim, a disgruntled army, coup d'état and border battles with several of the neighbours. But in 2015 there was a peace agreement, which we will now be contributing to, has the potential to become a reality. Minusma's Swedish contribution is today what I can see from the reports one of the larger, together with the Netherlands, if you look at our part of the world. It is also an effort linked to France's request under Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. We were asked by the UN, and this time we were able to respond back with the requested capacity: our intelligence capability. On behalf of the Center Party, I would like to thank all the women and men who have made contributions, who are now ready and who are now there to carry out our decisions. You have all done and will make a difference! Thanks also to all families and all relatives! It is a dangerous and challenging effort. In the Secretary-General's latest report to the Security Council, we can see that the very high vulnerability of UN personnel to security is being highlighted. It is, by the way, an interesting report to take note of. After all, the UN Security Council receives regular reports from the Secretary-General. Therein a lot is told about the development, which sometimes looks a little hopeful but very often is wobbly and weak. In the light of the security situation, it is also a good thing that we have this announcement. We hope that the government will be able to ensure that the Medevac capabilities are available even when it's dark in order to secure our broadcasts and the efficiency we want to see in the mission. It is also important that, in this matter, we agree to our joint alliance motion to set national targets that can be evaluated. We will contribute to the fulfillment of the UN Security Council resolution and deepen knowledge of the UN's peace-promoting activities, it is said. We know that the military continuously evaluates and reports on their experiences. But it is important that we ensure that we are able to report to the citizens of Sweden both goals and goals and ensure that we can thereby also be a good demander and developer when it comes to the UN's peace-enforcement efforts. And the main thing is that our voters must be able to feel confident that our objectives will be met. I also believe that it has a meaning that should not be underestimated to the people we send away. They are told that we know and can account for the difference they actually make in the important efforts for peace and development to which they contribute. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-537	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party supports the government's proposal to continue Swedish military presence in Mali. It is very good to have a great deal of agreement on an issue that is ultimately about sending Swedish men and women to risk their lives and limbs. As you know, the Left Party wants this responsibility now, but also in the future, to be in the Swedish Parliament. It will then be possible for citizens to assume responsibility for such heavy decisions as this. Like many others, I would also like to thank those who do the dangerous but important work on the ground. It is also good that we should participate in a UN operation. As the previous speaker noted, it was a while ago. It is also something that the Left Party has advocated in the many years in which it has, at great cost and with, unfortunately, rather small results in terms of peace and security, been mainly about participating under NATO flags in various war operations. This is a good proposal, and it has become even better because the committee is now in favour of two alliance requests, thereby proposing two announcements to the government. According to the committee, the government should take the necessary initiatives to ensure adequate access to medical evacuation within the framework of the operation. This is important for the safety of those who make the operation, but it is also important, because only with the medical evacuation that was planned can the Swedish unit's action radius be according to the plan and according to the needs that exist. Finally, the committee also believes that the government should set follow-up national targets in order to be able to evaluate the efforts that Sweden is carrying out in the framework of, for example, Minusma. Of course, it's important. Despite the fact that one should be extremely aware of all the difficulties that this task offers to find the follow-up and evaluable objectives, it is important to try to set targets even for the Swedish sub-action in order to get a meaningful follow-up and evaluation. Already Seneca the younger stated: a man does not know which port he sails towards, no wind is the right one. Here you might turn it around and say that when you don't know where to go, all the winds are the right ones. It is therefore important to set targets in advance in order to be able to monitor and evaluate the operation in a rigorous manner. Mr President, I would like to We call for the proposal to be approved in the report before us.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-546	Madam President, I would like It will not be easy to add wisdom to this debate when you come after Stig Henriksson. I broadly agree with every statement and point of view he made. This debate began with Kenneth Forslund, on behalf of the Social Democrats, welcoming the fact that national targets for the operation in Mali would now be set and that these objectives would be evaluable. It almost got the impression that it was the Social Democrats who put this idea to the composite committee, but the proposal was found in an alliance motion. Having said that, I would also like to admit that, for a long time, the absence of national targets in the international efforts that Sweden has taken part in has been a black mark on our peace-promoting work. Neither did the Alliance government fully behave on this point. And I look forward to these evocable national targets. They are about the impact of the effort, but they are also about such things as the economy, for example. Last year, the Swedish initiative was established. It was built camper, it was set up infrastructure and so on. At that time, the costs amounted to 660 million. It is a little surprising that the costs of the unit this year, once the investments have been made, continue to rise up to SEK 700 million. Kenneth G Forslund also mentioned that it is valuable for Sweden to be in Mali, because then we will gain knowledge and competence for future participation in UN peace-promoting efforts. Madam President, I would like to emphasise that there is such a side effect, but that must never be the reason why we are taking part in international efforts. The reason must always be to improve the safety of less fortunate people on earth. I am also pleased that, for every year that passes, the Riksdag is more and more engaged in what is called the care chain, that is, that a Swedish soldier who is injured or becomes ill should have the opportunity to quickly and effectively get under qualified care. Unfortunately, we have not reached that point. The helicopters that are at Swedish disposal in the operating area, among other things, are not able to medically evacuate personnel at night. The Swedish Armed Forces then say: But we will refrain from operating at night. That sounds good, but if you're in a hostile area, it's not always the case that you choose the time when you're involved in a battle. It may be that the opponent takes the initiative when and if our resources are limited. And it is important to emphasise that it is not just about risks for Swedish personnel. It is also about the impact of the operation. The operating area is several hundred miles long — as large as it was in Afghanistan. With such distances, special requirements are imposed precisely on transport possibilities. I assume that, despite the fact that the UN has now, in its own opinion, fulfilled its potential in terms of Medevac resources, the Minister for Defence continues his efforts to improve the situation in order to increase its impact and reduce its risks. I have been particularly pleased today, Madam President, at the fact that virtually every speaker who has been in the speaker's chair has chosen to thank the women and men who are making efforts abroad on missions that must be classified as the most dangerous to which a Swedish civil servant can be sent. Although this effort has not gone on for a long time, it has already become one of the bloodiest efforts in the history of the United Nations. When we express these thanks to both soldiers and their relatives, it is important to remember that we in this House are working to develop veteran policy and support and care, not only of the soldiers but also of their relatives. But from what I have heard today, Madam President, that development is well secured. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-555	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing Swedish participation in the United Nations stabilisation operation in Mali. I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. I want to start where Allan Widman left off and remember to thank the soldiers and officers who are making the effort. We make the decision here in the Swedish Parliament, but then it is the soldiers, the officers and also relatives who have to pay a high price. I would like to express my sincere thanks for the efforts they have made. It's a dangerous mission in one of the most dangerous places you could possibly be in. So it is a great effort that is being made. As has been said before, we in the Alliance have pointed out that it is important that it is possible to evaluate the operation. It is also important that we get to grips with the problems of Medevac. In such a dangerous effort, you can get hurt. Then we must ensure – it may seem to be a detail that we interfere with, but it is an important detail – that you can feel safe as a soldier. Now there are still shortcomings when it comes to helicopter at night. It makes it a limit. It is important that this is corrected, and that is why the clear announcement and order to the government in the report are important. Mali is one of the poorest countries in the world, and a major effort is needed there. The background to the operation was the adoption by the UN Security Council on 5 July 2012 of a resolution establishing the situation in Mali as a threat to international peace and security. On 23 April last year, the Parliament approved the Government's proposal to continue Swedish participation in the UN's stabilisation operation in Mali. So it will now be extended for one year. Then it is important that this is corrected, that we can evaluate our efforts and that the problem of the important Medevac ability is solved.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-560	Madam President, I would like A peace agreement in Mali was signed this summer. This is now being implemented with the support of the UN stabilisation operation Minusma. The Swedish unit, which is part of Minusma, has an extremely important role in the peace process. Let us be clear that this is not a simple mission. It is an extremely complex mission; it is a dangerous situation on the ground. The security threats have regional ramifications, which makes the security situation in the region difficult. Minusma's role is very important and crucial for creating the conditions for stability and development in Mali. Minusma contributes to efforts to reduce the incidence of terrorism and trafficking in human beings in Mali and in the wider Sahel region. Sweden has a broad and long-term commitment to Mali. In addition to Minusma, we participate in the EU training effort EUTM, and we have a comprehensive aid programme. It is important that we coordinate all the efforts made in Mali, both civilian and military, and within the framework of the UN and the EU. In January, I visited Mali with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Commander-in-Chief. My impression of the visit confirms the picture that our contribution to the region must be long-term and broad. This is not something we can conclude shortly. We met several senior representatives of Minusma and also government representatives. I spoke to them and stressed the importance of the link between security and development. Mali's Minister for Defence explained that he was very pleased with the Swedish unit. The Minister of Defence expressed his appreciation for the professionalism and ability of Swedish staff to solve their tasks. He also expressed the importance of the intelligence ability Sweden contributes and explained that it is a unique competence that is needed in the region as it is an important part of Minusma's success as a whole. The main task of the Swedish unit grant now planned is to continue to provide the intelligence unit with information in order to fulfil the mandate of the Security Council. The Swedish unit grant is an important part of building the UN's competence in the field of intelligence, which is a new area within the UN. Few countries within the UN have the opportunity to participate with such advanced units as Sweden. Our contribution will therefore be an important part of the whole and the stability of the operation. The Swedish contribution is proposed to continue to be approximately 320 persons under normal circumstances and to include an intelligence company, a so-called ISR company, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, with associated staff and logistics functions. The Swedish intelligence grant has the task of providing Minusma with qualified intelligence via personal-based pick-up, patrolling, and technical pick-up, UAV and easier forms of signal reconnaissance. The notifications are sent from the Swedish ISR Company to Asifu, All Sources Information Fusion Unit, which acts as a hub for incoming intelligence. Asifu's processing the intelligence. They are then used by Minusma's intelligence staff and Force Commander to take operational decisions and operate activities aimed at fulfilling the mandate of the Security Council and thus supporting the peace process. Through our intelligence contribution, Sweden can both develop the UN's intelligence capability and contribute experience to other participating countries. I will also comment on the discussion that is taking place on nightliness. I can begin by stating that the composition of the Swedish unit and its in-depth capabilities are based on the information obtained by the Swedish Armed Forces from the UN regarding what resources would be available in the operation at the time of the unit's grouping. In many respects, the UN has not complied with the commitments it has given. The delay in Medevac helicopters is an example of this. Weaknesses in supply are another. In the sector there are now light attack helicopters from El Salvador with limited evacuation capabilities for injured and medium-duty transport helicopters from Indonesia. Since the end of 2015, all promised helicopters have been in place and operational. The Indonesian helicopters provide increased operational freedom of action for the Swedish unit by contributing to increased robustness in the healthcare chain. We have repeatedly raised this issue with the representatives of the United Nations. After various announcements, where times have indeed shifted, this part of it has now been delivered. However, as has been pointed out here, there is a lack of darkness and we intend to continue the dialogue with the UN on this point. Adequate medical care for Swedish personnel is ensured by applying the so-called 10 ‐ 1‐ 2 rule in the conduct of operations. The rule means that all staff should be able to receive peer assistance within ten minutes. After a maximum of one hour, an injured person should be able to receive qualified life-support medical care in order to be able to receive surgical treatment no later than two hours after the injury. The unit includes medical teams accompanying the unit when operations such as longer patrols are carried out, in order to ensure that adequate medical care can be provided within the specified timeframes. In consultation with the Chief Executive, the Chief Executive adapts the operations carried out in order to obtain established medical preparedness. The operational limitations are mainly that the unit can only operate in one direction when the availability of medical teams is borderline. I also met with doctors and health professionals myself and had a proper review of the various resources available to them in connection with this operation. It was a very interesting and rewarding review. It has also been commented on and asked questions about the economy and the cost. The transport budget, mainly between Bamako and Timbuktu, has increased significantly for 2016 due to more staff transport and increased supplier agreements. We also have a budget for logistics. The cost of operating the shared camp Midgård in Bamako has increased significantly in 2016. The cost is governed by an agreement between Sweden and the Netherlands. The budget for service and support agreements linked to UAV has been added for 2016. Budget one for the liaison and satellite operator has increased due to increased use of the operating area. Camp's operating costs have also increased. This is the answer to the questions asked about the economy. Let me say one more thing about the economy. Questions have also been asked about how to cover this in the budget. On p. 15 of the bill, it is stated that the Government estimates that the cost of the Swedish contribution in 2016 will be a maximum of 700 000 000 SEK. The costs shall be charged to the budget item 6 Defence and society's emergency preparedness item 1:2 The Swedish Armed Forces' contributions internationally and are calculated on the basis of the adjusted calculation model for cost allocation between grants 1:2 Swedish Armed Forces' contributions internationally and grants 1:1 Unit operations and preparedness. Additional costs for possible reinforcement and evacuation measures are included in the proposed framework for the grant 1:2 Swedish Armed Forces' international efforts. In addition, rehabilitation costs resulting from the operation will be charged to the appropriation. ..................................................... The bill thus describes the economic conditions. I will also briefly comment on the discussion on objectives and evaluation. What must be the starting point when considering the objective of the operation is the fundamental UN mandate. It includes, inter alia, security, stability and protection of civilians, support for the political dialogue and reconciliation process, support for the restoration of the sovereignty of the state throughout the country, support for the creation of the conditions for humanitarian aid and support for the parties to comply with the peace agreement signed on 15 May and 20 June 2015 respectively. This must, of course, be linked to Sweden's part of the specific operation and the intelligence activities that we have to carry out. I would also like to point out that, in an evaluation work, the Swedish Armed Forces carry out mission evaluations. FOI also carries out this type of work. It is a basis that may be sufficient to use in an evaluation and follow-up of this action. I would also like to point out that there is now a special investigation that is working on an evaluation of the ISAF operation in Afghanistan. The Swedish unit operates in a difficult environment with many actors, in an extreme climate and in an area with inadequate infrastructure. It has brought important experience to the unit and helped to develop its capabilities, and that is something on which we want to build. An improved ability to act with other countries and organisations is an important aspect of this. Now a new Swedish force is on its way to Mali. Mali 03 with personnel from K 3 in Karlsborg will be replaced by Mali 04 with personnel from the Southern Skåne Regiment, P 7. The personnel in Mali 04 are well-motivated for their mission. They have been trained and trained and are ready to take over responsibility for the tasks that the Swedish unit has to solve in Mali. For over 60 years, the blue helmets have contributed to a more peaceful and safer world. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the soldiers and officers who, with great professionalism and courage, are working unconditionally to create security and stability. I would also like to take this opportunity to turn my thanks to all the relatives who have supported our soldiers at home. Thank you very much.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-597	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister for Defence says, of course, any increase in Sweden's contribution to Minusma will primarily be taken from the grant to international efforts, 6.1.2. It is important, however, to remember that we need to have a thrift even on that appropriation in order to maintain freedom of action in an increasingly troubled and conflict-filled world. However, what prompted me to ask for a reply, Mr President, was that of medical evacuation. I heard the Minister of Defence say in his speech that the UN has fulfilled its promise with the arrival of the two Indonesian helicopters. Nevertheless, there are still restrictions on the range of action and the effect of the Swedish contribution because these helicopters cannot fly at night. The Minister of Defence's statement that the UN has thereby fulfilled what has been promised me to ask the question: did the Minister of Defence and the Government know that the UN would not deliver in full on this point when the operation was launched? My second question is: if it is the case that we knew and accepted this relatively weak backing with helicopters for medical evacuation, how can the Minister of Defence now demand that the UN provide additional resources in this context?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-600	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if Widman has listened to what I've said. I have written down word for word what I have said about what the UN has promised and not, and I have not mentioned here that the UN should have fulfilled its task. However, I have said that the helicopters have been delivered, that we have come across Medevac and that it has produced results. I have then noted that, despite this, there is no darkness and that we intend to continue the dialogue with the UN on this point. I have therefore given myself a commitment in the speech, namely to bring this up with the UN on the basis of the debate that has taken place in this House. On the other hand, I have not used the wording that I believe that something has been done.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-602	Mr President, I would like to I can, of course, remember wrong, and I would like to make sure, through the Minutes, of what the Minister for Defence has said. I firmly recall that those very words were used, that is to say that the UN has thereby fulfilled its commitments in that part. The questions I asked the Secretary of Defense did not want to answer. Did we know that this is the only UN that would put on the table when the operation was planned and decided? If so, how can we make demands of the UN afterwards if they have fulfilled their commitments?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-604	Mr President, I would like to However, Mr Widman, I know what I have said on this issue, and I have based on the preparations that have been made. I have not said that anything has been accomplished, so do not try to push me into that position. It's not a fair way to deal with this. As far as darkness is concerned, I have said that we should continue to work on this issue. Since we have not put ourselves in the position that we have adopted any wording that one thing and another is finished, I do not see either that we need to have a debate about that we can now demand nothing. We can demand how and what we want here from the point of view that it is a lack situation. Of course, what limits the way operations are set up are access to health care resources at the operational stage. We have known that what has been put in place is a Medevac ability that can be used in the daytime. We've had full information about that. Now we must move on and demand that there should also be Medevac during the night. How we are going to achieve this we will have to come back to when reporting. I can only remind you that it was not simply to achieve what we have now achieved. But any reason to have almost conspirative thoughts about our way of working is not a reasonable approach. We have tried to deal with this directly as we have realised the problems, and we will continue to do so. I have nothing to hide in this context.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-608	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important effort that the Swedish Parliament is behind. But it is also a dangerous effort. There has been a shortage for a long time, ever since the operation began. It was raised very clearly in last year's debate, and it was decided that the government should take the necessary initiatives to ensure adequate access to medical evacuation capabilities within the framework of the operation. Then I wonder: Is there a time perspective for when you can also use Medevac during the night?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-610	Mr President, I would like to I have reported to the committee. I've been talking about this in Parliament. I've told you about the contacts I've had with Ladsous on the issue of Medevac ability. I hope you will remember what I have said and that you have followed the work that I have done. We have certainly not been on the lazy side in this context. During the process leading up to the Mede vac capability in the daytime, the UN promises were postponed in time. After all, they did not meet the dates they had initially set, but the whole thing was moved forward. But now at least that's where we're going. Let's try to keep working on the darkness. I cannot state any day or time when such an operation may be completed. But we will bring this up with the UN. On the other hand, I cannot give you any time, because I cannot help it, because it is the United Nations that is dealing with this issue.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-613	Mr President, I would like to That the UN promises have been postponed in time one sounds a bit like Orsa Company, which promises nothing definite. Then the question is: Would it be reasonable to take matters into your own hands and have a Swedish ability to solve the helicopter issue? Is there anything the Secretary of Defense has considered?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-614	Mr President, I would like to It is the UN that fulfils certain commitments and refers to resources. It is reasonable, then, to demand that the UN live up to its responsibilities. If it is the case that we are initially assuming responsibility for the Medevac capability linked to the two Indonesian helicopters, then of course the UN has not done what the UN was supposed to do and which was their fundamental commitment. It is now a matter of pushing the issue of darkness. But I cannot set a timetable or an exact time for this. Then I am not going to be the one who, in the case of the UN, uses wordings about Orsa Company, which does not promise anything definite. That kind of level does not give any results.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-616	Mr President, I would like to As many of my comrades here have described, for a long time it has been an extremely difficult situation in Mali. Splits within the country, combined with crime and growing extremist groups, have made the country difficult to control, while at the same time creating a very difficult life situation for the civilian population. Moreover, the situation is exacerbated by the enormous poverty in the country. According to the UN today, about 2 million people in Mali are matosafe. In 2015, 709,000 children aged 6 to 59 months were acutely malnourished. The conflict has also contributed to large flows of refugees within the country and between the countries of the region. It is estimated that there are some 139 000 refugees in neighbouring countries and about 62 000 internally displaced persons within the country, creating additional humanitarian needs. In the northern part of the country, where the situation continues to be extremely unstable, it is difficult for humanitarian organisations to fully operate and to be able to make proper needs assessments. A difficult humanitarian situation has therefore become even more difficult as a result of the conflicts. Supporting a political order, functioning police and functioning military structures while supporting the security of the civilian population and maintaining the peace agreement are therefore extremely important contributions where both the UN and Mali themselves have assessed the need for support. That's what Minusma's all about. The Minister of Defence and several others have also explained the broad commitment that we have in Mali. It is a very comprehensive effort that we are making in Mali and that is part of Minusma. In January 2016, Minusma consisted of a military staff of 10 800 people, 1 100 police officers and about 1 200 other civilian personnel. Mr President, I would like to As we have heard before, Sweden participates in Minusma by contributing to the operation's intelligence unit with approximately 320 people and has in the weeks begun the fourth rotation. The Swedish contribution is proposed to continue to form part of the overall intelligence structure of the operation. The unit also includes a national support unit and, among other things, a qualified healthcare component, analytical functions and staff to maintain the base. However, if rescue, evacuation and reinforcement operations are needed in the event of a deterioration in the security situation, it is important that the force can be temporarily strengthened. In total, the Swedish contribution must therefore be up to a maximum of 470 people. Since the complex environment in which the operation operates and which it is forced to deal with is a military problem that is new to the UN, such as asymmetric threats, the Swedish operation, by its nature, is strongly contributing to developing the conceptual capability of the UN system and collecting and processing intelligence for UN operations. It is expected to contribute in the long term to the better implementation of the mandate of the United Nations Security Council and, in particular, to the creation of better conditions for the protection of civilians in response personnel. For the Swedish Armed Forces, participation in Minusma also means an opportunity to deepen their experience and knowledge of the UN's peace-promoting work and activities, which increases Sweden's ability to provide additional force contributions to the UN when the opportunity arises. The individuals who make up the Swedish operation contribute to international security and ultimately risk their lives to protect the civilian population and contribute to a more stable Mali. In order to protect the soldiers and ensure their safety, the Operation Commander plans operations based on the possibility of maintaining emergency medical care in accordance with the 10-1-2 principle, which the Minister of Defence has also carefully explained. To solve this task, the unit includes a medical resource of 25 people who meet the need for Medevac for Swedish soldiers through their own resources for medical evacuation and their own surgical interventions. During a visit to Karlsborg last autumn, I and several of the Social Democratic colleagues had the opportunity and the privilege to see the equipment that the staff have with them and therefore also what capacity they have in the field. It is difficult not to be impressed by the ability of the unit and how much they can achieve on site. Thanks to this ability, the unit can maintain the 10-1-2 principle around the clock with its own resources and operate in the operating area. The Minister of Defence also announced just now that he will continue the dialogue with a view to further improving the capacity for medical evacuation. Security issues are clearly extremely important in this context. The effort in Minusma is an extremely tough and exposed effort in a very tough environment. In February of this year, 74 UN soldiers had been killed since the formal establishment of the operation on 25 April 2013. It is therefore a tough situation in which the operation operates, and with the long-term nature of the operation and the unstable situation in the country, the threat to the personnel of the operation will vary. The Swedish Armed Forces are therefore continuously conducting a threat and risk assessment to be able to take the necessary measures. Mr President, I would like to In a conflict such as that in Mali, which seeks to find a solution between the parties and create security for the civilian population, it is extremely important to seize and live up to the UN resolutions on women and children in conflict. We know that, through all times, it has mainly been – and still sits – men at the negotiating table. It tends to be men's needs and interests that are primarily met. At the same time, we know that women and children tend to be particularly vulnerable in armed conflicts. Therefore, it is so important that the Swedish contribution, which the government also emphasises in the bill, actively works to ensure that consideration is given to the role of women as actors and that special consideration is given to the vulnerable situation and special protection needs of women and girls. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, we can see that this is an extremely important contribution. It is good and important that Sweden has undertaken this as a longer effort and that next week we will have the opportunity to extend it for another year. I also look forward to being present in about a month's time at the reception ceremony for Mali 03, as we have been able to do during the previous rotations. These are women and men who ultimately risk their lives to help create security for others, and they deserve to be appreciated accordingly. In addition to the medal ceremony for the unit, these ceremonies Invidzonen is usually in place to hand out home hero medals to the children. As several others have mentioned, it takes skilled and competent people on the ground to achieve the success it achieves. But it also means a great responsibility for them at home. I would therefore like to conclude by expressing my sincere thanks to those who participate or have participated in the operation, as well as to all the family members who are at home and who support and have taken a great deal of responsibility. I support the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-629	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has historically a long tradition of placing representatives of the Swedish Armed Forces in the service of international peace. We as a country participate, make a difference and contribute. With the report now under debate and the decision that follows, all of us voting in favour will extend an important effort in Mali, now until the end of June 2017. It is a designated task, a designated task, a designated cost and a designated maximum number of participants. We Members should take our task very seriously to support this operation. Our demands and expectations for those who participate are the highest. Ultimately, they are there to risk their lives – for our common interests and for our good. All those who participate are Swedish heroes, and all these women and men bear a name and have a place of residence, although we in the Swedish Parliament of course know few of them. However, I and other Moderates have the privilege of knowing Oscar Karlflo, who previously served in Mali. Today, this very Thursday, he is part of the Royal Guard at the Royal Palace of Stockholm. Otherwise, he travels around our country to tell about his experiences in schools and libraries. Oscar shows wonderful pictures of sunrises over expanse in Africa. He talks about how, as a Swedish soldier, you drive into villages with happy children running after the vehicle because they know that these soldiers represent order, stability and struggle against forces that want to tear their communities apart. He can also say a great deal, Mr President, about a UN bureaucracy that requires a large number of signatures just to board an aircraft going from Timbuktu to Bamako. Oscar Karlflo is proud of what he has done and is happy to tell you about it. Thus he is one of all these worthy representatives of our Swedish Armed Forces. It is when you listen to experiences conveyed by Oscar Karlflo and others that some of the Alliance's joint demands in our exercise feel extra urgent. Firstly, it is necessary to set national targets in order to evaluate the actions carried out. Why are we there? What is to be achieved? Have we achieved the desired? The objectives of the operation are: a) support for security, stability and the protection of civilians, 2) support for national political dialogue and reconciliation, 3) aid to restore the sovereignty of the state throughout the country; reconstruction of the Malian security sector; promotion and protection of human rights; and humanitarian aid support; 4) assistance to the parties to comply with the peace agreement. It shall also protect UN personnel and preserve Mali's cultural heritage. ..................................................... We in the Alliance believe that a prerequisite for carrying out an evaluation is that concrete, follow-up objectives have been formulated for the Swedish operation. Mr President, I would like to We also highlight issues related to shortcomings in medical evacuation capabilities. Let me assure you that I have moderate colleagues – some of whom are present in this House: Lena Asplund and Jan R Andersson – as a regular member of the Committee on Defence, usually ask questions to the Minister for Defence or the Commander-in-Chief about the Medevac capability. It is about being able to feel security and full reliability in order to carry out assignments further away but also about the knowledge that help is available. On the basis of our alliance text, the following wordings are included in the report we are now discussing: These deficiencies affect the ability of the force to operate effectively in the area of intervention and may affect the safety of its personnel. The committee believes that the government should take initiatives to ensure 24-hour medical evacuation capability within the framework of the operation. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Within the framework of our candidacy for the UN Security Council and the ambition to be a member of this for two years starting in 2017, it is also very important that we can participate in various upcoming UN-led and UN-sanctioned efforts. If Sweden gets a conversation about the need for help, our basic attitude must be positive to stand up to secure peace and freedom. The costs for the operation in Mali in 2016 are estimated at a maximum of SEK 700 million. Exactly what they are expected to be for 2017 may be reported in the upcoming autumn budget. But the crucial question that needs to be asked is how much more money is left for international tasks. What additional responsibilities can Sweden shoulder? We in the Alliance have expressed objective criticism of, for example, Sweden's contribution to France following the terrorist attacks in Paris for its inadequacy. Unfortunately, I think it is precisely because of the financial constraints. It is quite possible that we want and need to do more than just this important effort in Mali in 2016 and 2017. Then it must not go out on the national Swedish defence. In that case, it requires a wealth of ideas about how other, new resources can be added to the account Swedish Armed Forces' efforts internationally without any other reductions. Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Alliance, we have no reservation. When we send out women and men on international missions, it is a strength for everyone that we stand side by side. Our women and men, our soldiers, should know that they have our mission and our full support.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-643	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. It is good that the government has now submitted this proposal for consideration in the Riksdag. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the Riksdag called on the Government to do so in an announcement in connection with the processing of motions from 2014. In any case, this announcement has now been met. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of the winning approval of time only to reservation 1, but we are of course also in favour of all that is stated in reservation 2. The reason why this legislative matter is now on Parliament's table is that the Supreme Court initiated a rescheduling of case law through the so-called mephedron judgment in 2011. The Supreme Court, through that judgment and a relatively large number of subsequent judgments, withdrew from the penalty assessment and measurement tradition developed in the courts over a long period of years. The Alliance government therefore set up the Drug Penalty Investigation. The Supreme Court has, by means of a great many judgments, which I have just mentioned, redrafted the case law. The so-called 97-kilos judgment and the cannabis smuggling judgment, both from 2012, set criminal ceilings. That is how it has been described in the literature. This means that, in the end, the amount of drugs does not matter. Theoretically, the amount of drugs could be doubled without affecting the length of the sentence. In concrete terms, this has meant that the amounts of drugs required for a drug offence to be considered a serious offence have doubled. In order to influence, as legislators, the treatment of large quantities of drugs, a new classification of the major offences in the field of drugs is being introduced. The new offences introduced by the legislative dossier are particularly serious drug offences and particularly serious drug smuggling. That's very good. The purpose of this is precisely that we should get away from the penal ceilings contained in the case-law, in that large amounts of drugs should have an impact in the measurement of penalties. With regard to the part of the penalty ceilings, one might say that the Supreme Court's ambition to achieve a more nuanced view in the assessment of drug offences has become unrefined. It is unimportant not to take into account the amount of drugs that could have been put into circulation in society. The amount of drugs is typically less important the more serious the crime is and more important the lighter the crime is. Somehow it can be said that it is reversed. I think that the amount of drugs should be of great importance in all situations. Nevertheless, we have a drugs policy in Sweden that is characterised by a very large consensus. This is probably an important reason why we have a lower number of young people in Sweden who try drugs than in many other countries. In principle, I do not know any other analogue country where fewer young people try drugs than in Sweden. We are then also known in Sweden for making fairly detailed measurements of such things. The prerequisite for achieving a coherent drugs policy is to reduce the amount of drugs in a society. It has a comprehensive drug policy objective and also a legal policy objective because drugs cause other forms of crime for various reasons. It is also one of the basic problems in very many of the exclusion areas that cause a lot of problems for us. This applies not only to the Committee on Justice but also to other committees dealing with matters relating to the situation there. In practice, the Supreme Court's rulings have meant liberalisation on the supply side when the amount of drugs did not take on much importance or the penalties were reduced in any case. You can't have that. That is why the proposal is good again. In this context, I can mention that we also have the public health perspective and the possibility of providing assistance in various ways to people who are caught up in drug abuse to leave their addiction. But it is still the amount of drugs that is fundamentally crucial for the damage that occurs in society both at the overall level of society and at the level of the individual. It is also a view shared by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and is made known in various international contexts. The government has stated its intention in the legislative matter that it does not wish to affect the level of penalties in general. I may find that somewhat contradictory. If you want to get away from criminal ceilings in terms of the amount of drugs, surely you want to influence the level of penalties in relation to that crime. It is also the case that if it does not in fact lead to an increase in the level of penalties in cases where Parliament has intended it, as we fully agree, it is reasonable to come back from the government with proposals that affect the scale of penalties. That's the next step. We want that to be done by the Moderates. Then it is important to follow the case law. Otherwise, it is said, at the same time, that it does not matter if we consider the amount of drugs, even though we want them to, because we do not intend to increase the level of penalties in general. I wonder how you really think in that part. We also have the issue of hazard assessments. The problem when you have reduced the penalty value for larger amounts of drugs is that you have also looked at the dangerousness of the preparations. The Supreme Court says that it is essentially a question of proof whether a preparation is more dangerous or less dangerous than previously considered. At the same time, it is a matter of law, because in general we do not see in evidence how dangerous or not dangerous preparations are. That is precisely what this is all about. Based on what is commonly known in the Mephedron judgment, the penalty was reduced after looking at an article in a scientific journal. It is quite contradictory when, during 100 years of work on international drug conventions and corresponding Swedish legislation, scientific evidence has been used to make assessments of the hazards of individual preparations and divisions into different classes. This also applies to control, authorised medical use and other matters. It is strange that this can then be deleted, even though it is said that in some cases it is a question of proof and in others a question of law. The long-term view of the dangerousness of a preparation reasonably leads to a review of the risk assessment in the criminal justice process. I think that the majority of the committee has given a very strange answer here. It is noted that the importance of the dangers of a preparation in criminal matters is a matter of law. However, to what extent new information on the preparation gives rise to a change in legal practice is typically a question of proof. Yeah, that's right. Then draw the conclusions too!
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-659	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating proposals for new legislation on what has come to be called a particularly serious drug offence and particularly serious drug smuggling. The proposals could be seen as wanting the government to tighten the penalties for serious drug offences, which is not really the case. However, starting from 2011, when court practices reduced the penalties for drug offences, the division of the scale of penalties may lead to certain offences not being at risk of leading to quite as low penalties as in the past. If you look at the legislative proposals with a slightly longer look back, the proposals for new legislation are more of an attempt to regulate penalties based on how different drug offences have been valued in our country for a long time. So, in my opinion, this is more of an attempt at regulation than a punitive one. The government itself also states that the division into the scale of penalties between serious and particularly serious crimes does not intend to affect the level of penalties. Unlike the way in which the levels of, for example, aggravated assault and particularly serious assault have been designed, there is no difference between the maximum levels of serious and particularly serious drug offences and drug smuggling. Otherwise, at this stage, the government does not choose to tighten the penalties for any other drug-related crime. So we are changing the law from a law on aggravated drug crime which can give up to ten years in prison to a supplementary law on what is called a particularly serious drug offence and which is proposed to give up to ten years in prison. Yes, you are right: there is therefore no difference between the maximum level of the various penalties. What separates the scale of punishment is that the minimum level of particularly serious crime should begin in six years instead of, as it is today, for serious crime, starting at two years in prison. The positive thing in this context, as we see it, is that the new legislation hopefully leads to more consistent penalties, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to the fact that certain types of serious drug offences are not liable to be subject to a penalty of less than six years in prison. If so, it is a welcome development on the part of the Swedish democrats. But, as I said, with regard to the maximum level of the penalty scale of the new proposals, no increase is proposed. This is something that the Swedish Democrats have chosen to highlight as a problem through a reservation to the report. The Swedish democrats have long advocated more stringent penalties for drug offences, and more stringent penalties are a bit of a known SD line. When we say that we have been advocating stricter penalties for a long time and term it as an SD line, it should not be confused with how, for example, the Moderates choose to use the concepts. These are therefore not political proposals that we came up with last week, but more stringent penalties for drug offences are included in the flow of motion from last autumn and can be traced back many years in the criminal policy of the Swedish Democrats. Our starting point for the new legislative proposals has been how the existing scale of penalties has been designed and how practices in courts have developed. There, unlike the government, we want to see measures that lead to tightening up the penalties. Mr President, I would like to It is often said in these debates in various contexts that Sweden stands out, especially in Europe, with high penalties for drug offences. From my point of view, a more relevant comparison is the Swedish people's perception of penalties for various crimes and what time is actually served in prison. My view is that too often the public is disappointed by the lack of penalties and not that the public is concerned about the fact that other EU countries have a different criminal policy. Of course, when it comes to the evaluation of the offences in relation to other serious offences, the scale of penalties should not differ very much. If it were the case that we wanted, individually and only to tighten the scale of penalties for particularly serious drug and smuggling offences, it might seem that the SD is acting inconsistently. However, since the SD line throughout criminal policy is permeated by proposals for punitive measures, our reservation on the matter should of course be made proportionate to how we have expressed support for punitive measures in other crimes. For a long time now, we have been advocating more stringent penalties. When I say this for a long time, therefore, I do not mean any tactical move from last week, but I am referring to the line that the Swedish Democrats have been advocating for several years, not least through proposals here in Parliament. Mr President, I would like to We in the Swedish Democrats support our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I choose to apply only for reservation 3 – the Swedish Democrats' reservation on increased penalties for drug crime.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-668	Mr President, I would like to In the area of justice policy, it can be said that the Swedish democrats are really trying to cut pipes in the reeds. The Moderates have stood for a restrictive drug policy for a long time – long before the Swedish Democrats existed as a party. I can quote then Prime Minister Carl Bildt, who said that anyone selling drugs sells death. That is quite true, not least if you look at the problem we have with violent deals with weapons in alien areas. It is also about the consequences that drugs bring through other violent crimes and overdoses. It is basically someone who shoes himself to the misfortune of others, and it is serious. The solution to this is, of course, a nuanced approach, and one can always discuss whether the approach you give is nuanced or not. It is not primarily a question of raising the maximum penalty, it is a question of getting a measure of punishment that is reasonable within the whole scale of penalties. In court practice, drug offences, and serious drug offences, have been crimes that have used the penalty rules specifically laid down in the Criminal Code and which allow for the imposition of longer sentences than the penalty scale. I do not understand how to deal with this problem, which has obviously also been highlighted by the Swedish Democrats, by simply raising the maximum penalty. Nor is it appropriate for the legislator to determine the degree of hazard of different types of drugs. If we want to achieve change on a scientific basis in relation to catfish, then we should reasonably be in favour of some sort of regulation of the issue of the hazard of preparations and the assessment of hazards.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-673	Mr President, I would like to I didn't get any concrete question from Anti Avsan. However, as far as reasonable levels of punishment are concerned, this is precisely what we are highlighting: the introduction of a crime called a particularly serious drug offence, which alludes to it being a crime far more serious than a major drug offence. Then it is also reasonable that there is a difference in the scale of punishment, just as there is for aggravated assault and particularly serious assault. That is what we have proposed in our reservation that I said we have. We see problems in not being consistent with the way other legislation is designed. Then this will also be proportionate to how we value other penalties so that the penalties do not differ in terms of value, such as what has been mentioned in the report in relation to the scale of penalties for aggravated assault and serious drug offences. There is a discrepancy between the various offences in relation to other criminal scales, and we think it is reasonable that there is also a discrepancy between the maximum levels of these two different offences, that is, serious drug offences and particularly serious drug offences.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-676	Mr President, I would like to I could ask a lot of questions, but I do not think I should ask them, but perhaps try more to clarify things on the occasion of Adam Marttinen's first speech. For example, comparing drug offences with violent crimes does not need to be relevant just because they do. The legislative technique of a particularly serious crime is something, as Adam Marttinen says, which is also true of extremely serious assault. But every crime has its own props. I am not asking whether Adam Marttinen knows what the constituent elements of crime are, because I am absolutely convinced that we know whether we are on the Committee on Justice. The new properties added to a particularly serious drug offence aim to ensure that the crimes that the Supreme Court and other courts in Sweden considered to be at the upper end of the scale of penalties for serious drug offences will return to the upper part. At least that's our ambition. It is somewhat unclear what the majority of the committee thinks on this issue because it does not want to increase the level of penalties in general, which we believe should be done. Our starting point is that the penalty levels should be at the level that prevailed before the Supreme Court made its change of practice. Today, in the case of serious crimes, the level of penalties in Sweden is generally lower than in other comparable countries. It is also stated in the announcement on the basis, among other things, of the government's return to this issue. I think these are rather important distinctions to make. One must focus on the concrete problem as clearly as possible, and the Swedish democrats could have done so if they had had another entry when it comes to kat.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-681	Mr President, I would like to I think we agree that there are problems with the change of practice that came into force after 2011 following a number of judgments and with the choice of developing judgments and practices in courts. It is therefore to be welcomed that greater weight is being placed in the new legislation. However, we see problems in not increasing the level of penalties, as I have mentioned before, either for the minor forms of drug offences or for the new draft law on highly serious drug offences or smuggling. It is no stranger than that in our election manifesto we have promised our constituents that we will have increased penalties for drug offences. Of course, we are following up on legislative proposals in this area and are proposing increased penalties for drug offences. We must then propose an extended framework for drug offences, and we have done so in our reservation, which points out that there should be a difference between a serious drug offence and a particularly serious drug offence in terms of the maximum level, just as there are other legislations containing a serious crime and a particularly serious crime. It's not very strange. I think it is quite clear what we are aiming at with this proposal and how we relate to previous commitments in election manifestos and previous motions. I thank you very much for the clarifications, although we are mostly in agreement. Since I did not have a specific question, we must be satisfied with this debate.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-685	Mr President, I would like to My post was preceded by a classic baton meter battle between the parties on the right. This is typical when it comes to making an adjustment to existing legislation with the conditions in place. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. I believe that with these changes in the law we will have a sharper and more effective legislation as a tool in the work against drug smuggling and drug crime in general. In their speech here, the Moderates have had some logical reasoning. That's basically why we come here. We are making a joint journey in developing this new legislation. I don't need to recapitulate the whole story of why things have turned out the way they have. But it is quite clear that the practical application has not really been eliminated as the legislators once thought it would. Then you can scratch your head a little and point your finger at the courts, or you simply change the legislation. That's what we're doing here today. Just go back to the word processor and get back to work. There are a number of reservations and suggestions. I am not going to comment on everyone, as only reservation 1 relating to case-law and development is claimed to be acceptable. In fact, this is not a matter of the changes that have been made. We hope that this law will be so stable that the courts will judge as we who sit in here think the system should work. There is no difference between all the other cases that are decided here. If there is something in the legislation on the rail system that does not work, then you have to evaluate it and change the law. If there is anything else that needs to be adjusted, we will do so during the journey. We have lots of different institutions that work to follow up and evaluate government decisions of a different nature. It is exactly the same in this; this particular legislation is not a special case. However, it is problematic with the practice change that took place in 2011. In principle, double amounts of drugs are required for the higher penalties to be imposed. This means that we now see a smaller amount of condemned years in a particular category of crime than before the change of practice. It's problematic. The advantage of the change in practice is to take a broader and more nuanced approach to the judgment itself in order to get a more complex picture of the nature of the crime in court proceedings, as well as other legal areas. It makes sense that it does so here too. There has probably been quite a lot of table-laying and quite a lot of instrumental rulings in these particular cases. Maybe it's time to leave it, but still have some clarity for the courts. Then this possibility of having a particularly serious drug crime comes in and can solve it. However, it is not a clear-cut picture, because looking at the statistics you can see that the number of serious drug offences and the years condemned are already falling from 2008. Therefore, the change in practice cannot explain the whole of this journey. There may be other explanations as well. These may be the explanations that we in committee have been wrestling with for many years, namely that criminals have been given other tools with apps and systems that the police cannot monitor and control and cannot use in the administration of justice. It may be that you have actually learned to adapt and change crime areas because it is lower penalties and risk exposure if you work with fraud against the welfare sector, less smuggling or other types of crime than if you work with the crimes that we have in fact generally and historically punished very hard in Sweden, namely serious drug offences. There can therefore be such an aspect. In addition, we have been able to see better that we have a depreciating use of drugs. The increases we saw above all in the 1990s have flattened. Of course, what is the chicken and the egg there can be discussed. In addition, both we as legislators and the authorities have reason to be self-critical about how to work against these crimes. Is that why there are not as many convicted of serious drug offences as in the past? On study visits to the Prison Service, one often hears that, from their perspective, that would in some way be the reason why there are a lot of vacancies in the Prison Service. The argument also appears quite often in the media. It's a rather crudely simplified picture. But there may be something in it too. In conclusion, I think that the proposal put forward in this House today is a rather balanced proposal. It harmonizes with and is in line with the other legal systems and changes in legal systems that we have done here in recent years.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-698	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that the Social Democrats have been active in the so-called baton measurement in recent times. I understand that we are not far apart from each other in justice policy at all times. Looking at the criminal policy programme developed by the Social Democrats, for the first time in 18 years, ahead of the 2014 elections, it is also with good will and careful reading difficult to discover any new proposals. They put forward proposals that we had made earlier and things going on with the government. Perhaps that is one of the reasons why they continue to deliver what was investigated during the alliance period. Of course, we are grateful for that. However, when it comes to pointing the finger at the courts, it is the courts that should ultimately apply the legislation we have. We expect the legislation that we decide on here in Parliament to have an effect in reality, including its effect. I assume that Petter Löberg takes the same view. We now know, however, that legislation has not had any effect in another respect, too, where the Social Democrats are possibly part of the baton measurement. It's about the life sentence for murder. In that case, the government has also pointed the finger at the courts in this case. But I don't think it's wrong to do it. I don't mind judges taking the initiative. I can speak on the basis of my own experience. But the question is whether initiatives are taken that are in line with what the legislator wants. If it isn't that way, we'll have to get back to you. There's nothing strange about that. This change began to some extent in 2008. But the significant change took place after 2011.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-703	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that judges in lower courts above all should take too many initiatives of their own. The judges should be based on the basic principles of the law, what is in the law, but also on the practice of our courts of practice. In this case, the Supreme Court. It is their job to try to interpret the law and apply its wording in reality. Here we have seen that there is a lack of clarity. That is why we are now making this adjustment to the law. There we are in complete agreement, Anti and I. It's not weird. We have mentioned in the past that the quantity does not matter in the execution. Of course it's a little generalizing. Of course, that matters. But that is a factor in the judgment to be made in these cases. I think it is a good thing that we are moving away from the instrumental view of the convictions we have had in relation to drug offences. Consultation bodies and legal expertise in general are quite satisfied with that part of HD's judgment. On the other hand, we may not be satisfied with the practical outcome. That's what we're trying to adjust here now.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-706	Mr President, I would like to Another aspect of this, from what Petter Löberg said at the outset in his speech, is that you should look at this as any other legislation in terms of evaluation. I can clearly say that I do not share that view. I think it is legislation that, if it works, counteracts serious consequences in society. It's very important. What has been the result of this de facto? The question is whether Petter Löberg understands the problems. If the amount of drugs is valued as half as criminally as in the past, it has also removed the possibility of bringing about criminal procedural coercive measures. If you are going to get permission for secret coercive measures, there will then be the minimum penalty in the scale of the sentence or the expected penalty for the crime in question. The police complain that they have been given decisions on secret coercive measures to a much smaller extent than in the past because practices have been reduced. It may also explain why we see a sharp increase in minor crimes. The explanation may be that the police have increased what may be called social police work, which in itself can be good. But it can also be an expression of the fact that the amount of drugs in society is greater, while it is not accessible because the prosecutions for the serious drug offences have fallen very significantly, while the small drug offences have increased. There may be a connection. That is also what those who now work at the National Operations Department of the Police Authority say. This is important to have with you. Therefore, this legislation must be dealt with in a different way than in the case of railway maintenance or other comparable laws.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-710	Mr President, I would like to There are many categories of crime, violence in close relationships, for example, that need to be evaluated systematically and scientifically before the legislation is adjusted. This is no different from anything else. On the other hand, like you, Anti Avsan, we regard drug crime as extremely serious. We've been doing that all along. We Social Democrats have a restrictive approach to narcotic drugs and their use. We have agreed on this across the block line as well. As far as customs seizures are concerned, the quantity of products seized has increased. I do not know whether it is due to increased efficiency within the Customs Agency or to the increase in the amount of input. What contradicts the latter is, for example, CAN's measurements in the population. They show that the use of drugs has not increased significantly in recent years. That's good. It's a value shift we can see. We can also see this when it comes to alcohol. The consumption of alcohol has fallen dramatically in just ten years, especially among young people. In this way one can say that it is part of fighting the crimes in the courts. But there are other parts of the social organism that must work if we are to handle the scourge of narcotics. I think we have some different entrances there. In our legal policy programme, especially the portal pages, we can see that we have a different view of how we really want to reduce the amount of crime and abuse in society. We believe more in keeping this country together, reducing class differences, working for a softer society and being crime-preventive to a much greater extent than constantly calling for tougher penalties and more police officers. It's not that simple. It is much more complex if these major social problems are to be solved in the long term.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-714	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report, which appears to be serious drug offences. This is a serious question. I've worked a lot with drug addicts over the years. I have seen how drugs can destroy people's lives, how you can be broken down completely by an addiction that also affects not only yourself but the whole social environment – friends, family and children. You can ruin your own lives and those of your fellow human beings. I've also seen what a tremendously difficult way back it is, how incredibly difficult it is to find the way back. For those of us who do not have this addiction, I feel that it is almost impossible to understand how difficult it is to get out of an addiction. That is why it is so important that we on the part of society really send out the right signals on this issue. What I think is most important in the report is that we are sending out the right signals. I remember how long before I knew that I would take up my seat here in the Committee on Justice, have the opportunity to debate this issue and have the opportunity to take part in making decisions on the report on the Supreme Court's decision on this issue in the news agency. I got along, even though I don't usually listen to legal issues in news reports, and thought this is the wrong way. This is not the way to go and, above all, not the signal effect on it. Then you can always discuss back and forth what is exactly the right length of punishment. I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a cop, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not a lawyer, I'm not an expert in that part. But the important thing to think about is what signal we are sending from society when it comes to drug crime. And it's not good, it's even very bad to send the signal that there should be less punishment. However, it is important to send the signal that you can stop your addiction, that there is always a way back. In order not to send the signal to addicts, criminals and smugglers that drug offences should be more allowed in Sweden, it is important, as the report does, to tighten the scale of penalties. As several have pointed out in the debate, a few times as a criticism, this does not prolong the overall scale of penalties, but it differentiates and reintroduces the real length of penalties that has been in the past. Then we could have a long discussion here if it would be better to have even tougher penalties. I do not think that is how we solve the drug problem in Sweden. As the previous speaker Petter Löberg pointed out, we will solve more in the construction of society. However, it is also important to send out signals that it should not be easier and less criminal to engage in drug crime. It should not be easier and must not be easier. Therefore, we take this step in the Swedish Parliament and find this very reasonable level. Nevertheless, it seems that we agree relatively in this House on this signal. Then there may be details on which we do not agree, but I think it is important that we take this decision. That is why I support the proposal in the report.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-722	Mr President, I would like to The first question you might ask yourself is: where does the Green Party really stand when it comes to drugs policy? Where Mats Pertoft stands is probably quite clear anyway, because, as he explained in his speech, he has considerable experience of how this can affect people. There's something in common. I have, not least as a young policeman once, at P lattan here in Stockholm, Sergels torg, seen how people have perished from drugs, how they have died in their own vomit in dirty toilets, what the drugs have done for close relatives, families, acquaintances, for victims and for society at large. And it's miserable! I am pleased that we still have such a common view of drugs policy in Sweden, because that is a strength. For us, it's important to do all that other stuff. This is just some of what we're talking about. We also have the whole social policy part of crime prevention, opportunities to get a job – a meaningful life. You could say that if young people feel bad, they do bad things. But on one point I have a completely different opinion from Mats Pertoft: J ag does not believe that our task is to send signals. We should not send signals, but we should create legislation that has an effect in reality. It's supposed to work at the end of the chain, and if it doesn't, we've failed. Signal policy, I'm dismissing. Unfortunately, too many Members of Parliament believe that signal politics is what we should be doing. I am keen that this will be good, and Mats Pertoft, with his background, should perhaps be able to see it the same way.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-728	Mr President, I would like to I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding the Anti Avsan question. The Green Party stands up for the restrictive drugs policy that we are discussing here today. What I emphasised in my speech was that if we want to tackle drug use in itself – even there we seem to have a common view – it is much broader efforts that need to be deployed to remove not only young people but also many older people from the P latta and elsewhere or at least reduce the need to escape from reality. When I talk about signals, it might sound a little condescending. But for me, it is a clear signal effect when it is broadcast in Swedish news media that the Supreme Court has reduced the scale of penalties for drug offences. I think that's wrong. What is important about this report is that we restore the scale of penalties. That is what I mean by signal, and so the signal becomes a reality. That it would be more allowed in Sweden with not only drug abuse but also drug crime as drug smuggling is quite the wrong signal and completely wrong reality picture to send out. That's not how it's supposed to happen. That is why there was an announcement in this House, and that is why the government has come back with concrete proposals that we are going to vote on next week.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-733	Mr President, I would like to It is good that Mats Pertoft is clear on this point. And apparently it wasn't that hard to understand my question. I still have some concerns because the Green Party has proved to be quite relativistic in many areas, but I take Mats Pertoft's words. I also note that what Mats Pertoft says about this with signals is partly about pointing fingers, as Petter Löberg put it, to the Supreme Court. Then I may have it in common with Mats Pertoft, because I think it is important that we, as politicians in this case, talk about how we in the Swedish Parliament believe that we should take a g rep over the whole important part of drugs policy. This is one part. I think what Mats Pertoft says is perfectly all right. And I very much hope that the Green Party will also be responsible for this, even after what is going to happen this weekend.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-736	Mr President, I would like to I doubt that drugs policy will be a major issue at the Green Party Congress this weekend. We have other issues to debate. However, I do not think that this is pointing fingers at the Supreme Court. It is the Riksdag that makes laws and the Supreme Court that interprets and obeys the laws. It is clearly in accordance with the decision-making order that is anchored in Sweden.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-738	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats broadly agree with the content of the bill and the changes proposed therein. Not least, it is positive that the law will now take direct account of so-called violent capital and that steps are being taken to target leaders in criminal associations. It is moving a little in the direction that we proposed several years ago with what we called DIKO laws, which were inspired by US RICO laws. They are designed to put leading people in organised crime in a different way. This legislation is not designed at all in this way, but the government is at least trying to move towards holding seniors accountable for what is happening in their network or organisation, which is a good thing. In general, I am therefore in favour of this proposal, but there are certain aspects in which we believe that some adjustments should be made. I am aware that many of them are details, but we think they could help. For time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 3. We agree with the Swedish Economic Crime Authority that the conspiracy to commit violence or threats to a normal grade official should be punishable. The penalty for the gross degree of crime should also be increased, for example, to one year's imprisonment. Crimes for which the new non-compliance obligation is to apply do not appear to involve drug crime, if I proceed from the investigation. Since organised crime often trades in drugs, which are also a major source of revenue, we believe that this crime should also be subject to negligence. We also agree with what the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Enforcement Authority say that the discharge rule in the event of danger should not apply to those who have a controlling influence in an association. The government's assessment that the danger is often so low that the provision does not apply seems to be an argument that the dominant authority should not be covered as a little bit strange. The government's view seems to be that they should or will be covered to a large extent anyway. The best way to ensure that this is the case should then be to regulate the matter so that it is not left to the discretion of the Court. Therefore, we believe that the discharge rule in the event of danger should not apply to those who have a dominant influence in an association. We also believe that the notions of control should be provided with criteria for qualification. Otherwise, there is a risk that the application will be too narrowed. We also agree with the investigation's proposal that grounds of qualification for the assessment that the offence against a civil servant is a serious crime should be introduced. The scale of penalties should also have a minimum penalty which is higher than it is today. The fact that the punishment is not often used is a weak argument for not having it, we believe. An official may not be subjected to violence, but if, instead, a criminal association uses vandalism on his property, it may be a serious or frightening event for him. In such a context, it should be important if, for example, it has been done by someone who has alluded to violence capital, which is central. The scale of penalties for grossly illegal threats, which according to the proposal is assessed as gross if it is ruthless or refers to violent capital, should be increased. This alluding to violent capital is important for tackling organised crime. In our opinion, a minimum sentence of only six months is too mild. The grounds for qualification should also be introduced for abuse of a legal act, as the investigation and the Swedish Economic Crimes Authority have indicated. It is again a question of hitting organised crime. Attempts to influence the judiciary will result in higher penalties. The government itself believes that the aspect of violent capital may be part of the assessment but does not want to introduce the provision for fear that the scope of the serious crime is extended too much. However, we believe that the very consideration of violent capital and thus a criminal association is extremely important, and that is something we have also raised in our motion on organised crime for the first time in 2012. Mr President, I would like to We believe that, in general terms, the scale of penalties should be reviewed with the aim of increasing them and reducing the scope for courts to impose low penalties. This applies to this proposal and generally in the Swedish penal system. This applies not least to violent and sexual crimes, but also to crimes involving organised crime.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-754	Mr President, I would like to It is good that, on the whole, the committee agrees in the debate on better criminal law tools against organised crime. There are some follow-up movements, but as Kent Ekeroth himself said, it is about details. I respect the fact that you can have other points of view. We are making these changes now, but as in all other ongoing political work, more balances may be made gradually. Before Christmas, the government presented a major concerted effort against organised crime with measures extending over the entire term of office. I wanted to mention some of these efforts so that no one believes that the bill we are now discussing alone will solve the problems of organised crime. Of course, the issue is much more complex than that. One task is to develop the joint initiative of the authorities against organised crime involving 12 authorities. The initiative was initiated and started by the Alliance. It is an initiative that we think is good and want to continue with and develop. The first interim report will be published later this year. We want to see improved conditions for order and security in the courts. An investigation will present a proposal for this in a year's time. What's this about? Well, it is the case that people involved in crime are sometimes convicted. There are many examples of threatening situations that have arisen when their mates have arrived to create such a situation, which is very unpleasant for Witnesses, for example. A mandate is also given to the Swedish Crime Prevention Council to identify working methods and methods to prevent crime in socially vulnerable areas. This should be done later this year. The prevention of crime is, of course, an extremely important part of all law enforcement. We usually say that both crime and the causes of crime should be combated. The Police Authority is tasked with creating the conditions for further combating illegal weapons and explosives. This will be reported in just under a year's time. A new amnesty of arms will be announced at the end of the term of office. Then you can hand in weapons without any questions being asked. The goal is, of course, to remove a lot of the weapons circulating on the street. We also want to review the possibility of extended confiscation. When criminals have money or other resources from which they cannot explain where they come from and which cannot be traced to an exact crime, but which it is quite unlikely that they would have obtained in any other way than through crime, you should be able to confiscate them, that is simply going on the money. The government has also announced that it would like to review the possibility of changes in the conditional release system. There is reason to consider whether the risk of recurrence in certain types of serious crime, such as crimes committed as part of organised crime, should be given importance in the issue of conditional release. The investigation will be completed in a year. Today it is about the proposal for better criminal law tools against organised crime. I can briefly say what the five points mean. 中 Trials, preparation and conspiracy of serious crimes are to be criminalised to a greater extent than is currently the case. This applies, for example, to gross illegal threats, violations of the law and serious and particularly serious weapons offences. The proposal is that the penalty for preparation and conspiracy should be changed so that more sentences than imprisonment for two years can be imposed in more cases than today. A person who has authority in an association may be sentenced if it fails to prevent certain serious crimes in the association. . New circumstances shall be introduced which shall be taken into account in particular when assessing whether a criminal offence is serious, for example in the event of a threat. Finally, it introduces serious and minor offences for crimes affected by the proposals and does not already have such a designation. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-772	Mr President, I would like to Organised crime is estimated to have a turnover of hundreds of millions of dollars annually in Sweden alone. Through increased globalisation and cross-border trade, organised crime is rarely confined to a single country, but is cross-border. Thus, one country's problems are often shared by another country or other countries. The purpose of crime is to make money or gain power and influence. Organised, criminal networks can work more efficiently and purposefully. It is a development which is both worrying and particularly negative for an open society such as ours. In order to combat organised crime, our law enforcement authorities must also organise together and stand up together against this type of activity. In the autumn of 2007, the Alliance Government and then Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask initiated a broad national mobilisation against serious organised crime. Some ten authorities, including the Police, the Customs Agency, the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Swedish Economic Crime Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency, began to cooperate in a completely different way against organised crime. The work has been successful, and I am pleased that the current government continues to support and further develop this collaboration between the authorities, which Elin Lundgren also mentioned in his speech. Mr President, I would like to The majority in the Committee on Justice would also like to address two announcements to the government to ensure and pursue, so that the government hastens to bring about more stringent legislation against organised crime. The first announcement concerns increased penalties for crimes committed in the framework of organised criminal activities. The second is to tighten up legislation and extend criminal liability for failure to reveal and prevent crime further. These two announcements are part of the report we are debating today, which I think is very positive. Early prevention of crime, even in the first stage of the crime, is important. Therefore, the Moderates are in favour of more serious crimes being criminalised in the first stage and the sanctions for these crimes being extended. Of course, the limit of where to go in relation to the initials and the crimes to which they apply can be discussed, but the basis must be the abstract penalty value of the completed crime. There should also be a practical possibility of maintaining criminalisation. In this respect, we find it a good balance in the limits of the report. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates also welcome the proposed punitive measures. We have put forward many proposals on penalties, both individually and together with our alliance colleagues. In today's report, we can see that the government has listened to some of our announcements to tighten the sanctions for crimes relating to organised crime. This applies to various precepts of crime linked to that crime. These are small steps, but they are still steps forward. We would like to see a more general tightening up of sanctions or the courts actually begin to make much greater use of the scale of penalties available for different crimes. We heard about this, among other things, when we discussed the previous report on drug offences. I do not believe that most of the penalties imposed are in the lower quarter of the scale of penalties. However, in view of the fact that we have a number of other announcements to the government that concern precisely the enforcement of penalties and that in today's report we deal with various first readings of crime, we choose to welcome the proposed changes and announce that we are waiting with great anticipation for the next report with penalties, as Elin Lundgren said earlier. I heard, among other things, that it was about arms amnesty and parole and more rules on extended confiscation. These are good things that I even think our government has been involved in pushing ahead a few times. We are pleased that the good results that came then are being taken into account. Mr President, I would like to The report also proposes a number of new grounds for qualification or aggravating circumstances in which a crime is to be considered a serious offence. This applies, among other things, to threats of a serious nature. In particular, it shall be taken into account whether the threat has been reinforced by weapons, explosives, arms reprisals or by reference to so-called violent capital. That's good. This also applies to acts of a particularly ruthless or dangerous nature. These include the offences of unlawful coercion, illegal threats, blackmail, violence and threats against officials and abuse of justice. It is good to include this in the text of the law, so that hopefully there will be a long-awaited impact on the imposition of sanctions in our courts. The penalties imposed must reflect the seriousness of the crime, seen from the eyes of the public. Crimes committed by means of weapons, explosives or the like shall render in more severe penalties. With this report, Mr President, we are taking a few steps on the road to tougher action against organised crime. Much remains to be done, and it is a great responsibility of the government to listen and act on the announcements made by the Riksdag which itself return to the Riksdag with thought-out proposals that can be effective tools against organised crime.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-784	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. This matter, and the like of organised crime, is particularly close to my heart, even though such things should not be close to my heart. It is precisely because I live in Södertälje and was municipal councillor there until 2006, when I came to Parliament, that I am a little extra happy that we can make decisions on this issue. I remember very well the situation that slowly crept up, in fact, for a number of years when one did not really want to believe that crime was as organized as it was. But it was heard that there were more and more rumors in the corridors about what was going on, and then it became visible, especially in connection with the Ronna murders in 2010, how serious the situation in Södertälje was and how there was in principle a large criminal network that had beaten the claws of the city. It was, as I said, much worse than one could imagine, and it was based on the fact that we in Sweden were very ill prepared. I remember very well how positive it was when we finally arrived at the legal process. In addition, it had to be taken once again because of various mishaps. I also remember how relieved I was when the judges fell. Precisely because, among other things, the legislation that we are debating today was not in place, it is not easy to bring out the convictions, even though everyone knew that crime was taking place. It was a big step in Södertälje to gain acceptance for the Swedish legal system and to give confidence in what is so important. Sweden often peaks international measurements when it comes to the fact that the Swedish population trusts our society – the justice system and that we live in a country where law and order apply. I know that many, especially in the Assyrian/Syrian and Chalde Irish population in Södertälje, invested a great deal of courage in the courage to stand up and testify. It was not easy because they witnessed against members of their own population. It is a group that has lived under oppression for 500, 600 or 700 years. This population was used to stick together. Then it is all the more important that we in Sweden are clear about what is right and what is wrong and that there are tools, laws and rules, so that those who are guilty of crime can be convicted. It is precisely the part that concerns all these steps of easier access to organised crime that is close to my heart. It is important in our country today. It is also important that we do this with the right balance in relation to our other legal system and that we find a balance with current practice. When you read the report from the committee, you see a great deal of balance. How detailed should you be to do it correctly but still not lock but still make it so clear that it does not get fuzzy? My view is that this is a major step on the way to get these tools and to tackle organised crime. In Södertälje, society actually succeeded. Of course, it is a success that is not forever. It's tested every day. It is about the police's work, Försäkringskassan's work, Arbetsförmedlingen's work, the municipality's work and the whole of Swedish society's work. Nothing is given. It's a fight that goes on every day. But it was a breakthrough that the Ronna murders were cleared up and that the guilty were convicted. New criminal proceedings are now under way with the help of welfare companies and so on. You take new steps. The interesting thing is now how we can move on. It has turned out that problems similar to those found in Södertälje exist in many other Swedish cities. I hope we can be just as successful there. That is why this is an important step in ensuring that respect for the rule of law continues to exist in Sweden, so that we can take new steps towards organised crime. I support the committee's proposal.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-796	Mr President, I would like to People are amazing. We have an incredible ability to adapt to new conditions and find ways to meet our needs. Unlike reptiles, who act on their most basic urges, mammals can put two and two together. Advanced mammals, such as man, can think abstractly and if not predict, at least make reasonable guesses about the future, and we can organize ourselves. For the vast majority of us, the rules of the game are clear. We may not like all the laws, but we accept them because we feel that on the whole they serve us well. We may not like all social codes either, but we put up with them because we realize that there must be some kind of standard for how we relate to each other. Land will be built by law. It is a saying that I think originates from the old landscape laws of the 1300s. I think it was also Karl XV's election language. That's how it is, and there's more to it. Society is built by rules that are accepted by most – not necessarily liked, but accepted. Throughout history, the reasons for accepting the law may have shifted. In ancient times, the legislator hoped that draconian punishment would frighten law enforcement, and the same basic idea probably carried through the Middle Ages and perhaps still characterizes some small part of the legal discourse. After democracy has made its move, it is probably part of the acceptance of the laws in the knowledge that they have been created by a reasonably reasonable compromise between everyone's views and that one still has some kind of possibility to influence. Then there are those who ignore just such things, who see the law as something that applies to others and who have no problem exposing others to violence, discomfort, injury and danger, as long as it benefits themselves. Among them are, of course, a lot of people who have found it difficult to take up a place in the majority society, who for various reasons did not fit in or who have chosen not to fit in. They may feel that they have, or have had, no choice but to make a living in a moral or legal way, live on compensation to which they would not really be entitled, cheat on other advantages, and break in, steal in stores, or engage in minor fraud. Fraud is something that has grown avalanche with the opportunities offered by modern technology of online commerce and so on. Then there are those who would actually have all the conditions to live an honest and good life, who, with both cunning and organizational ability, can carry out advanced projects and who could use these talents to create lasting values for the benefit of themselves and also for everyone else through the growth that their operations could generate. But they choose crime instead. The 2015 police report on organised crime notes a trend in which criminal cooperation is increasingly changing. Loyalities are not as persistent, and crime takes place more in project form of loose composite networks. The police say that there is now more organised crime where everyone cooperates with everyone. This is something that is also happening across borders. In normal life, we pay tribute to the opportunities that free movement offers to ordinary people and to ordinary businesses, because it creates a breeding ground for the prosperity that we all take for granted. Unfortunately, however, criminal globalisation also exploits the potential of cross-border collaboration between, for example, theft gangs from other countries with knowledge, equipment and ability to commit certain crimes and domestic abilities, with knowledge of where and how these crimes can and should be committed. It is sometimes not easy to sort out exactly who in all this collaboration should be considered responsible for what. The concept of stamping does not always become quite clear in cases where, for example, one or more persons plan a crime and for compensation let someone else do it. Extreme cases can be envisaged where someone within the framework of research in criminology, for example, identifies various possibilities that are then used by others to carry out crime. Quite apart from these challenges, the proposal before us today is a step in the right direction. Organised crime is developing at a rapid pace and with great creativity, as it seems. We, the legislator, must match this. It is gratifying that the present government is pursuing the path of the former alliance government. As welcome as the fact that we are now doing this, there are several things going on. Elin Lundgren mentioned many of them. The question of confiscation, which we are about to get up in the near future, is important. Crime really shouldn't pay off. Similarly, the product of id-jackings is a good policy overall, on which we have broad agreement in committee. But why does the government stay there? Once again, I have to say that the ideas and initiatives come primarily from the parliament and not from the government. It is we in the opposition who are the driving force in identifying the challenges of justice and in launching solutions to them. Through the instrument of announcement, we are pushing the government ahead of us, and that is a good thing in itself. Just a few weeks ago, we here in Parliament decided to introduce the crime of systematic theft. It hits an important but perhaps not always so well-attended subset of organised crime – the one that affects the countryside and shops. It creates both insecurity and great economic damage and, in the long run, a lack of confidence in the rule of law. It was the government parties against, but we won that battle. For everyone who protects security in Sweden, we must win much more. Madam President, I would like The legal issues in general, and perhaps the issues of organised crime in particular, require our full focus. There is no room for halfhearted approaches and the confessions of lips. We have to put strength behind the words, or as you say in English: Put your money where your mouth is. There are many of us who have long seen an increasingly pressured situation for Sweden's police officers, and it is increasingly clear that the large reorganisation that is basically something positive is slipping very wrong. It, combined with much more, has put the police in a situation that is becoming unsustainable. If new laws – good laws – that put effective instruments in the hands of law enforcement authorities are to have any effect, we must have staff who can use the instruments. I believe that all of us on the opposition side have announced efforts on the police in our spring budget movements. We see and acknowledge the need, and we fear the risks and consequences that an unscrupulous police force in a broken organization would bring. From the Center Party we invest 2.4 billion over four years to strengthen the police's numerical skills. We on the opposition side have all abstained from other efforts in order to prioritise people's security. The government chooses otherwise, and that is, of course, its full right. But it is important to make everyone aware that the government parties do not think it is as urgent as we do. Madam President, I would like It is good that the government is launching one or two legislative proposals, if nothing else, in response to all Parliament's announcements in the area of justice. However, in order for the new laws to have effect, we must have a functioning police force, and then, in my opinion, resources must be made available.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-815	Madam President, I would like Combating organised crime is not a competition in sounding the most harsh and restrictive. When carrying out a crime, a punishment should be awarded; it is right and proper. The punishment will punish, it will deter the person from committing new crimes and it will create confidence in the judiciary. The penalty must be enforced in the best possible way to reduce crime. We do not have a penalty system based on the principle of eye for eye, tooth for tooth. I don't think that's anything we want either. It is the judiciary and the state that impose the penalty and decide what it should be. Should we have another system where we might focus more on the victim and what the victim thinks, we would eventually – as some other states have done – land in a system that ends in vendettas and blood revenge. That is also why we have a penitentiary authority and not a criminal penalty authority. Madam President, I would like 70% of all prison sentences are less than six months. It's actually pretty negative. It is a bad thing that the prison services do not always have time to put in all the activities for which there is capacity. You don't really have time to put in all the resources, treatments and rehabilitations needed to create a good release – to get people to come out into society in a better way. Is the solution, then, that we should extend all the sentences? No, of course it is not, partly because there is no national or international research showing that long sentences have any kind of law enforcement effect. We can compare it a little with being a parliamentary politician for a long time, Madam President. We notice that anyone who has been within these four walls for quite a long time and then comes out has great difficulty in re-adapting to society. Then it is not the solution to be a politician in parliament any longer. We have quite a few criminals in Sweden, and that is a good thing. Therefore, it is particularly important that we constantly focus on reducing relapses. It is the duty of all of us to create a secure society. In order to reduce relapses, we must strike a balance between penalties on the one hand and rehabilitation on the other. Of course, serious crimes should result in prison for more than a year, but less serious crimes should result in parole and probation. Madam President, I would like However, in the political debate today, and in the social debate at large, it is harder to call for. Those of us who do not – those of us who talk more about preventing crime, engaging in dialogue and seeing the wider context behind people becoming criminals – have completely surrendered. We are weak, weak and afraid to see reality, even though we base the debate on evidence. We base it on what sociologists say, on what the socionomists in the municipalities say, and on what psychologists and criminologists constantly work with. Listening to the evidence is preventing for real. I am strongly opposed to the heated debate which calls for longer and tougher penalties. For if we constantly listened to the social debate, many believe that it would only result in us receiving even longer sentences – and longer, and longer. Then we politicians would not do much more than constantly extend the sentences. That's not the way I want to go. Madam President, I would like Punishment shouldn't be based on emotion. They should not be based on arguments here and now. The sanctioning system we have in Sweden fulfils several different functions, and it is everyone's responsibility to maintain a functioning penal system.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-824	Madam President, I would like I reacted a little when Linda Snecker gave her speech. I think it was a bit contradictory in its parts. At one point, the prison service has too little time to rehabilitate the inmates under the shorter penalties. Then one could get the impression that Linda Snecker wanted the penalties to be longer, but the next we hear Linda Snecker say that the thing about sanctions is not really that bad. That makes me a little worried, and I would like to ask Linda Snecker to clarify what she really means by that. What really upsets me most, however, is when you ignore the victim in this. Actually, I think Linda Snecker does when she says that we can't have it so that the victim decides the process. No, absolutely not. Our courts do. But somehow it will also be an obligation for the state to stand on the side of the victim and protect the victim who has been subjected to crime – for a crime. I hope Linda Snecker and I agree on that anyway. I want to focus on the victim, but the victim should not determine the penalty. We have courts for that. But I get a little confused when I hear that we shouldn't consider the victim. It gives me vibes to the statement by Governor Dan Eliasson about the poor offender instead of the poor victim of the crime. In my world, I will always put the victim before the offender,
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-828	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. All of what I have said today, the whole of my speech, I am basing myself on a debate article by the Director-General of the Prison Service Nils Öberg and a report by the Prison Service on the length of the sentence. What I'm talking about is something that the Correctional Service also says. The Correctional Service believes that it has too little resources to quickly put all that is part of the Prison Service's task. It should be possible to quickly put in place treatment and training for the person admitted and be able to draw up an enforcement plan. Once the person has served his or her sentence, he or she must also have a working future. That's what the Correctional Service says. The left-wing party's solution is not to extend the sentences for the Prison Service to keep up with, but rather to give the Prison Service better opportunities to fulfil its mission. As far as crime is concerned, you and I are in complete agreement, Anders Hansson. Victims are absolutely the most important thing in the whole process. But just as you say, it is the court that decides the sentence; it should not be determined by the victims. What I am highlighting is the political debate. You and I are responsible for it, and we have it in this Chamber, in social media and in society. If you want a system where the victim is in focus, the entire justice system will fail. The most important thing in the legal process is the victim of crime. It is not the victim of the crime who decides the penalty, but the court does. There you and I are in complete agreement.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-834	Madam President, I would like Without reading the article referred to by Linda Snecker, I think that the problem of the Prison Service seems to be that it feels that it has too little resources. In that case, weighing the penalty and the length of the sentence is perhaps, as we say, an extensive interpretation – subject to my not having read the article. Of what you represent here, Linda Snecker, I feel that the Correctional Service wants more resources to offer treatment. Whether it is then reflected in the length of the sentence can be discussed. The length of the penalty is, in some way, an important element in the whole. Having worked in law enforcement myself, I believe that the risk of being put in prison for a long or short time is hopefully a deterrent to many. That is what the penalties are aimed at, that they should be dissuasive and that the victim should feel that society reacts and believes that the person one has done something reprehensible and therefore should not be allowed to be out among other people and perhaps do the same crime again. We must have strict sanctions consistent with general legal awareness. The penalties shall be reasonable for serious offences. After all, the Left Party tends to advocate half-time release, which reduces prison time. How is this consistent with the Prison Service's demands for longer sentences and the general legal awareness that the punishment should be consistent with the crime?
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-838	Madam President, I would like Correctional services no longer require time to sentence. Nor is it said that more resources are needed. What Nils Öberg says in his debate article is that the Prison Service does not always have time to deploy resources, as 70% of all prison sentences are less than six months. It is quite a short time for you to engage in official activities that often take a long time. There is a lot to be done in order to get a good enforcement in the Prison Service, and it is good that the requirements are high. But there is a debate here in Parliament on a little different basis than the usual ones that we usually have in the speaker's chair. It would certainly be interesting to have a little more stringency and a little bigger thoughts in the parliamentary debate. I notice that it confuses, but I think it is good for the public debate that we do not just get stuck in cramped drainpipes. We must dare to debate in a different way. What I am asking for is the evidence on which the Moderates base their policies when it comes to harder action. I agree that it has an effect when it is said that criminal offences are punishable. But the Moderates go against all national and international research on whether longer sentences are crime prevention. This is not the case according to the evidence that criminologists are leaning against. Here, the Moderates seem to think otherwise. You've had the Justice Minister's office for a very long time. You had the opportunity to do a lot of things, but it doesn't seem to have happened. After the debate about the exciting research articles you have read, Anders Hansson, you will be very interested to hear from us that it is a crime prevention with long sentences.
i-e49f85ce8087fe0b-843	Madam President, I would like This is an exciting debate in which the vast majority of people in here agree relatively on what is needed, although differences are also highlighted. The truth is that Sweden needs more active efforts to tackle the serious organised crime in our country. We have seen an increase in very severe violence and shootings in Malmö and not least in my neighboring city of Gothenburg. Deals between individuals, blackmails, but also deals among criminal gangs that often deal with drug trafficking have been almost commonplace. We should thank Sweden's lucky star for not having more unhappy ones stood in the way of the settlements. For this reason, the Liberals have put forward a number of proposals in the Committee on Justice over the last year to tighten up arms legislation, to take more action against illegal weapons, but we have also called for stricter penalties. The government is now making these proposals for additional tools to access more people in organised crime, and that is a good addition. We support them. On a number of points, we want to go further than the government. That is why we have exercised further criminalisation of precursors to crime. For example, we want to criminalise conspiracy and preparation for ordinary-grade crimes – it can be gun crimes but also illegal threats. Unlike the majority of the committee, we believe that these are crimes that are very serious and that are worthy of punishment. As the committee chooses to reject our motion, I would like to support our reservation No 2 in paragraph 2 of the report.
