i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-7	Madam President, I would like Today we live in a rapidly changing world. Technology development now follows an exponential and accelerating curve. We are constantly connected and have become accustomed to meeting both doctors and life partners via our smartphones. The same technological development is also taking place in the energy sector. When the world's poorest billion is now going to buy their first refrigerator, these refrigerators will consume half as much energy as the refrigerators did just ten years ago. Electric cars are another example. Just a few years ago, it was said that battery capacity would never be enough. Now everything suggests that we will experience an infrastructure with autonomous electric cars during our lifetime. Development is also progressing on the production side. Renewable energy sources in particular will be both cheaper and more efficient. Then why am I saying this? Well, the point is that we are here to discuss the rules of the game and goals that will apply 20 – 30 years ahead of time. We don't know what world we'll be in then. But our task as political representatives is to secure both energy supply and the climate, not only for those of us who live today, but also for the generations to come. As you know, the Moderates were one of five parties that decided last spring to negotiate an agreement on energy. The background to this is the uncertainty on the market. Electricity prices are historically low, many producers have found it difficult to maintain profitability, and early closure of nuclear reactors has been announced. It is no secret that all parties in an agreement can give and take to get along, and the result has been stable conditions in the energy industry. This is extremely important for more people to have the courage to invest and invest in new technologies. We have agreed on a target of 100% renewable energy by 2040. For many years Sweden has been wearing the leadership shirt in environmental work compared to other countries. We already have a high share of renewable energy in our energy system and have already exceeded the EU 2020 targets. Added to this is that Sweden has an almost carbon-free energy production. With the agreement, we continue to increase our ambition through, among other things, reduced property tax for hydropower and the extension of the electricity certification system. At the same time, we agree not to set a deadline for nuclear power, nor to close nuclear reactors through political decisions. Instead, the impact tax on nuclear power production is phased out and the investment opportunities in the waste fund are increased. One has been important to us ooders, because we believe that a responsible energy policy cannot ignore the force which contributes between 30 and 40% of energy production today. Without it, we would probably be directed to fossil fuels or perhaps even become dependent on Russian gas. Although agreements always mean giving and taking, as I said, I am pleased that nuclear power production is being secured, that hydropower is being strengthened and that we have a good plan for renewables. Long-term rules of the game are crucial for opening up new investments in the energy sector. In addition to the agreement, we Moderates will continue to affirm technology development and future confidence. Continued investment in research and development of renewable energy is of great importance. We have had comments on the fact that the Swedish Energy Agency is not in a position today to support research in the nuclear field. Regardless of what one thinks on the nuclear issue, everyone should agree that, since we will continue to have nuclear power for the foreseeable future, this nuclear power and its management should be top-class. If innovations in Sweden are to become more profitable, we need increased exports of both energy and technology to other countries. This is why we want to combat widespread trade barriers such as high tariffs on environmentally friendly energy technologies. We would also like to see a special study focusing on evaluating and strengthening Sweden's competitiveness. Finally, we are in a troubled environment. The climate threat and a more difficult security position are at hand. More than ever now, responsibility and stability are needed, not least in the field of energy. A secure and secure energy supply is expected from both Swedish households and industry. Now there are clear rules of play in place that also open up for new investments. I am pleased that we have contributed to this. And we will continue to push for a more climate-smart and responsible energy supply. Since we do not have a reservation, I refer to our particular opinion.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-21	Madam President, I would like Initially, I can say that it is a pity that there is no moderate representative sitting in the Energy Commission here, now that there is a free right of reply and there could have been more discussion of these parts. As far as expenditure is concerned, the Moderates are largely concerned with energy research and say explicitly that it will contribute to the needs of all relevant forces and parts of the energy sector, as they put it. The Swedish Democrats absolutely agree with this, and we also think that nuclear research should of course be included in the framework of state energy research. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that has invested in research infrastructure in the form of a research reactor in the case of rapid reactors. But it is probably more than I who wonder how well it all rhymes with the energy policy objectives that have been agreed with the other parties in the energy agreement. The framework agreement presented publicly in June stated that the focus of energy research should be on achieving energy policy objectives, among other things. One of the goals is to invest in 100% renewable. The question is whether or not it is possible to incorporate this into energy research. I wonder whether it is the view of the Moderates that there is a clearly stated scope for nuclear research within the energy agreement that has been reached.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-25	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I think we have been quite clear that we have views on the fact that the Swedish Energy Agency today cannot provide support for nuclear research. It is something we would like, it is something that we have written about and it is something that we have pointed out many times. I would like to emphasise that it is important to have a balance between both having a responsible, stable energy supply and having the courage to take the climate threat seriously. For example, the Swedish democrats have put quotation marks on the climate in parts of their budget. It's extremely serious. I'd like to ask you a counter-question. Of course, we need balance. We have stood up for nuclear power for many years and have been clear where we stand in the field of nuclear research. But we also need to invest in research that benefits the climate, which benefits renewables. What is the Swedish Democrats' climate policy? Or should there be quotes if it is too?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-30	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it is interesting to hear how the Moderates view what is possible to house in energy research or not, because they are very much involved in nuclear research in their field of expenditure motion. What the Moderates have agreed to in the Energy Agreement is not primarily to ensure that we have a fossil-free power generation. Instead, it is defined as being 100% renewable. Some types of energy are excluded which, globally, can solve the concerns we face in terms of a strong dependence on different fossil sources. The question is whether it is possible to implement those parts in the future. I would like a clearer and more straightforward answer to that. The Swedish democrats' entrance to solving the problem of greenhouse gas emissions is above all that we cannot focus on various dead ends. You work with subsidies, subsidies, take short-term solutions and spend a lot of taxpayers' money on them, but you have to change as you go. There are a wide range of examples of how one has failed completely, such as the ethanol effort during the alliance years. When choosing the track with renewables, it is obvious that the main priority, which even the Moderates support, is not to remove the fossil-free power laws. Instead, one is very interested that it should be renewable over other things that may be more likely to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Once again, I would like to clarify more clearly whether, with the existing energy agreement, the Moderates believe that we can invest in researching and developing nuclear energy.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-36	Madam President, I would like To reply directly to Mattias Bäckström Johansson's question: Yes, that is our opinion. We have also been very clear that we want to prioritise nuclear research. We would have liked to see even more of that in the agreement as well. I was told earlier that nuclear power is a part of it. But there are also other important types of energy in Sweden. Renewable energy is something that will be demanded by consumers in the future. But it is also necessary for us to meet both climate and environmental challenges. I would like clearer answers from the Swedish Democrats as to why you do not take it seriously. Why do you put quotes on the climate in your budget? It's not serious.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-39	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Moderates for the joint work on the Energy Agreement. Research on nuclear energy already exists, for example on how to ensure the safety of the reactors we have today. Such research is funded, among other things, by the Swedish Radiation Safety Agency. It would be good to have an answer to what research on nuclear power the Moderates want to see. Of the opposition parties' proposals, I can see that it is the Moderates who are responsible for the biggest cuts compared to the government's proposals. Moderates are declining significantly in energy research as well. Sofia Fölster now says that the Moderates want to have room for nuclear research within that grant. With regard to both energy research and the whole budget as a whole, the question arises: What concrete cuts do the Moderates want to make in the energy budget?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-43	Madam President, I would like Lise Nordin first asks exactly what research we want to see in the nuclear field. I stand here as a political representative and not as a scientist. I do not, therefore, want to specify exactly what kind of research it should be. But I note that technological developments are moving forward. In this area, for many years now, for example, we have seen rapid development with fourth generation nuclear power. Waste is thus used to produce new energy. These are wastes which today must nevertheless be stored and handled. It's just one example. As I said, we do not specify exactly how the research should be conducted. That's not our job. However, there is good reason to look more at nuclear research, especially at taking advantage of the waste that we still have to deal with today. Lise Nordin also asks why our budget is slightly different from that of the government. The biggest difference has mainly to do with support for solar panels. There is a different view from that of the government. I think it is important to look at the reason why the development of solar panels, for example, is not faster. We see, for example, major barriers to trade and we see that free trade agreements between countries have not been put in place. Such things help to make it expensive to buy solar panels, to slow the development of technology and to prevent it from being cheap enough. That is where you have to do the great work. And that's where we've wanted to focus.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-48	Madam President, I would like Research on fourth generation nuclear power has been available both in Sweden and in the world since the 1950s. Today as well as 30 - 40 years ago, it is said that a technological breakthrough is coming soon. But we can see that it has not done so. This technology is very expensive. That is why all three major energy companies in Sweden have said that new nuclear power is a non-issue. It's not economically interesting to look at. But the Moderates therefore want to spend large research grants on the black hole that research into fourth generation nuclear power is. Sofia Fölster said that this technology could handle the existing nuclear waste. I hear that argument quite often. However, for example, SKB, which has the responsibility of the state to handle disposals, says that a small part of the existing waste could be used if that technology were to come. However, Sweden will still need a nuclear waste disposal facility, regardless of whether the fourth generation of nuclear power could deliver or not. So it's not a quick fix. I also note that the Swedish Research Council advises Sweden against researching the new technology. It is not considered sufficiently interesting for the challenges we face. I would also like to say something about investment aid for solar cells. Is the Moderates' message that in your budget, with the figures in the table, you completely remove investment support for solar cells? You can't tell. Today, people, municipalities and businesses are in line to receive that money. In total, the applications correspond to approximately SEK 600 million. Do I understand it right that with the Moderates' budget, those waiting for investment support would certainly not get any money?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-54	Madam President, I would like The Green Party claims that there is already a lot of research on fourth generation nuclear power and that it is not a quick fix. No one claims it would be a quick fix. Research is not solutions that we should make decisions about. Research means to investigate and see what opportunities may exist in the future. The research is moving forward very fast. My question to the Green Party is: why, for example, are you stopping the Energy Agency from looking at projects in the nuclear field at all? If you think there are opportunities here, even if it is not a quick fix, it may be an opinion, but stopping that you look at it at all is a completely different matter. We do not put our foot down when it comes to different research solutions. But we say that there must be opportunity. That's the most important thing. As far as solar panels are concerned, I can only repeat what I said earlier. The major problems are barriers to trade and the fact that free trade agreements are not in place. There the government must take much more force than it is today. Then we would have even faster technology development there too.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-58	Madam President, I would like In her speech, Sofia Fölster mentioned how technology development has gone. I agree it's amazing. I'm thinking about how fast things have moved forward just during my time in the business. In the Energy Agreement, the Moderates, as I understand it, have been very driven by the fact that some texts from the 2009 original settlement remain. It is about opening up new reactors at existing sites but without subsidies. We can have an opinion on that. But I have to ask you something. As far as research and development are concerned, you just mentioned that fourth generation reactors are not in place. A company called Rosatom wants to invest in Sweden. They say they want to build a reactor for us, for 70 - 80 øre per kilowatt hour. Would it be a problem for you and the Moderates that the Ros atom will come and build for us and in 20 years' time still build with the technology that works today, the third generation or the third plus or whatever it is called?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-61	Madam President, I would like Birger Lahti is now asking a very specific question, but it is no secret that we have completely different views on nuclear power. I and we in the Moderates believe that nuclear power is and will be a significant source of energy for some time to come. This is because we believe that the energy system must be based on stability and responsibility. It is not possible to overturn the entire energy system overnight, as the Left Party, for example, wants by ending or abolishing nuclear power at once. Then there would be other risks, such as our becoming dependent on entirely fossil fuels or Russian gas. Russian gas is extremely harmful to Sweden. That is why I am quite pleased with the careful balance of words that emerges from the agreement. There is a balance between very ambitious environmental and climate objectives and not setting a deadline for nuclear power. Rather, we say that if there is someone who wants to invest in new nuclear power or wants to replace reactors, that should also be possible.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-64	Madam President, I would like Sofia Fölster answers a lot but unfortunately not to my question. I agree that nuclear power will certainly be a significant source of energy. It is important for industry in particular. Sofia Fölster puts the words in the mouth of the Left Party. Nuclear power will be decommissioned as soon as possible, according to our Congress, but of course without rendering decommissioning harmful to industry. There are many ways to interpret a person as quickly as possible. We'll have something else in place before we get it off. As I said, Sofia Fölster did not answer my question. Would it be a problem for the Moderates if there comes a company called Rosatom and wants to invest in and build a new reactor in Sweden in 20 years' time with the technology that exists today that means continued exploitation elsewhere in the world of the finite resource uranium? Would that be a problem? This is a fairly simple question.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-67	Madam President, I would like I spent almost all of my speech on technology development. I also talked about nuclear research. I was probably quite clear that we hope and see rapid technological development, and we would have liked it to have been possible in the nuclear field as well. I would like to come back to what Mr Birger said in his speech, namely that you want to abolish nuclear energy as soon as possible. As I see it, as soon as it is possible, it can go very quickly. How does the Left Party view the cost to industry and to households with electricity prices that rush away and cause a huge loss of production? This is not taking responsibility and does not provide a stable energy supply.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-69	Madam President, I would like Since spring 2015, the Energy Commission has reviewed the Swedish energy policy and its goal has been to reach as broad an energy agreement as possible. This year a five-party agreement was reached before the summer, where the Swedish Democrats, the Liberals and the Left Party were outside. It should also be added that, as the second-largest opposition party, we were not invited to the more detailed negotiations. The agreement, which is mainly characterised by compromises, provides both hope and disappointment for the future, with partly stable conditions for existing production facilities but also additional subsidies dictated mainly by the green parties. On the whole, however, solutions to both current and future problems for Sweden's energy system and the electricity market are lacking. The causes of the current energy market crisis have been completely bypassed by market-distorting subsidies for electricity generation that the market has not requested. Furthermore, the subsidised production facilities are so-called intermittent, weather dependent, and will inexorably give rise to large fluctuations in production and recurring grid shortages on the day when basic power is forced out of the system. It should be quite clear that the long-term solution will not be to ask more of the same medicine that created the problems from the very beginning. Hopefully these parts can be broken away as soon as possible. Madam President, I would like Within the framework of the funding available for energy research today, there is a complete lack of investment in nuclear energy research, which according to the Swedish Democrats should have a clear emphasis on the priority efforts for state energy research. In view of the fact that nuclear power still accounts for almost 40% of our electricity supply and that, as a small country, we have accommodated 12 commercial nuclear reactors, state support for nuclear research has been extremely modest for a long time. But nuclear research and development need not be based solely on pure nuclear research. Research areas in the final disposal of spent nuclear fuel and nuclear safety in some cases have a national distinctive character and require national competence. In order to achieve new, modern and safer nuclear power in Sweden, a high level of national competence is needed, and this requires increased support for nuclear research. A future potential for exports of Swedish technology and know-how in the final disposal of nuclear fuel and new nuclear power is fully conceivable. Just as recently as the other week, the concept of the intended lead-cooled Swedish research reactor Electra Electra a success and a milestone when India has chosen to invest in the construction of a prototype of it. Views of spent nuclear fuel have so far been marked by the very long times of final disposal, and the fuel has been considered waste. However, this approach does not take account of technological developments. Today we use only a few percent of the energy content of the natural uranium that has been dug up while the remainder is planned to be buried as waste. In the reactor types popularly known as the fourth generation of nuclear power, i.e. rapid reactors, nuclear fuel can be reused instead. This is something that opens up completely new perspectives. With rapid reactors, we could continue to produce nuclear power with unabated or increased power for thousands of years to come – this without having to break any new uranium at all. We are also reducing the amount of waste by up to 99% and also reducing the need for final disposals from near 100 000 years to less than 1 000 years. It is still important that we continue with research in Sweden on final disposal of spent nuclear fuel, but the time perspective would dramatically change the conditions. Such thinking about resource efficiency and the re-use of existing waste should, if anything, attract even the green parties. Madam President, I would like The main starting point for energy policy should be to serve Sweden as an industrial and welfare nation, not the reverse. Today we have a large surplus of electricity that we are random to our neighbours at a price well below half of the cost of constructing installations that will generate electricity. An obvious effort is given here to strengthen the value of the electricity produced in Sweden for Swedish interests and stimulate the use of electricity where electricity can be used rationally. Our electricity production is already exclusively fossil-free. Our fossil dependence is primarily found in the transport sector and in parts of industry. There are good opportunities to electrify, for example, the transport sector at an ever-faster pace, as the costs of batteries in particular are falling steadily. This means that you will soon be very competitive with fossil-powered cars – this without a single crown of subsidies. In addition to what is in the expenditure area, the Swedish Democrats have also invested in charging poles, hydrogen and biogas. Interesting steps have also been taken to, for example, replace the proportion of carbon used in Swedish steel production to drive out the oxygen from the iron ore, which is welcomed. This represents almost 25 per cent of Swedish carbon dioxide emissions from industry. The guiding principle for reducing our dependence on fossil energy sources should primarily be linked to electrification rather than directing expensive and ineffective subsidies towards fuel solutions that are dead ends. With this, I would like to call for reservation 2 in the report.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-83	Madam President, I would like It was nice that Mattias Bäckström Johansson showed that this is also an energy debate and that we are not just engaged in electricity. The energy sector is also concerned, for example, with fuel and heating. I am a little curious about one thing in the Swedish Democrats' budget. If you read it, you can see that they have put the word On one side of about 120 it's about the climate. What do the Swedish Democrats mean by the citing signs surrounding the word climate? Is it the case that we do not support the idea that there is a climate change which we should perhaps also do something about? Is it not the case that we should not phase out fossil sources and fossil energy as a whole? But if it is the case that the Swedish Democrats are in fact recognising climate change, what do they intend to do to phase out fossil energy on the transport side? These are my questions to Mattias Bäckström Johansson.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-86	Madam President, I would like I thank Rickard Nordin for the questions. I do not think that one should attach great importance to the fact that there may be linguistic errors that follow or that there are some signs in the text after you have sent different parts between you. It does not, in substance, alter the political proposals or visions that we have and which are also reflected in the budget document. What the Swedish Democrats have focused on and which is a fundamental principle for us is to make Sweden independent of fossil fuels. We're going to reduce our dependence on oil. Electrification is a very interesting step in that we have a power sector that is already exclusively fossil-free. We already have the system that all the other countries around the world are seeking today. What can be taken into account when designing policies for how to meet long-term visions is that Sweden has gone from being a country with maybe 80 percent fossil energy supply to having only about one third of its energy needs met by it today. If you make a comparative comparison at global level with other countries, you can see that nothing has happened there. They had 80 – 85 percent fossil dependence in the early 70s, and it is still the same level. In order to solve the kind of challenges we face, the global aspect is very important. Should we in Sweden push for the removal of the last about 35 percent, try to make sure to remove every single little emission that takes place here and go ahead? In fact, we have already gone ahead, without any impact at all. It would have disastrous effects on Sweden's competitiveness if we were to impose various tax charges and instruments on Swedish industry in order to achieve this. On the contrary, if we are to start moving production from Sweden to other countries where requirements are much lower than those in Sweden, it will probably lead to carbon leakage and increased global emissions. I think it is important to have the global perspective, which the Center Party lacks.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-90	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to advise Mattias Bäckström Johansson to read the reports that have come quite recently, including from one of the AP funds, that the Swedish companies want tougher environmental requirements, as they think that makes them even more competitive internationally. It is rather the case that we risk having a different type of development if we do not follow what the companies want, because they themselves want tougher demands. Mattias Bäckström Johansson answers only a little to the question about the transport sector. He says electrification would be nice. Yes, I agree. The only problem is that it does not happen today to a sufficient extent. About 50 percent of all cars sold are diesel cars, and only a small part are vehicles that can be loaded in any way. One problem is that a car lives for about 17 years. Even if it were changed so that all new cars would be electric cars from tomorrow, 7 December, the other cars would live for 17 more years. Then we need alternative fuels, if we do not want to depend on Russian oil, which I very much hope the Swedish Democrats do not want. I think it would be rather bad to remain dependent on Russian energy. Then the question is, what should we do instead? I do not see any proposals from the Swedish Democrats on how we can replace the fuels in today's cars. Is the Swedish Democrats' proposal that we wait out the developments and see what happens, or is it prepared to change? If so, where are the proposals? I only hear suggestions that we should not invest in biofuels, should not research them and should not have any kind of support for the whole thing. Then the consequence of the Swedish Democrats' policy is that we support Putin and Russia. We are not prepared to do what we are able to do in Sweden, namely to switch the fleet of vehicles to biofuels while waiting for electrification to start. And neither do I see so much suggestion from the Swedish Democrats on how to do it for real.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-93	Madam President, I would like The Center Party has been very focused on having grants and subsidies to various parts to try to solve the challenges of the future, which has constantly resulted in us ending up in dead ends. Ethanol efforts have been a complete dead end. Now, for example, we have agricultural biofuels, which have become some kind of dead end. Taxpayers put gross subsidies of nearly SEK 7 billion in Sweden to bring in a few percent renewable biofuels from the agricultural sector. This is not something we can produce in Sweden. Today we import almost 80 – 90 percent to Sweden. In fact, we are directing subsidies to industries in other countries. This is something that, at worst, can also lead to a de facto increase in emissions, depending on how these biofuels have been produced and what land has been used to produce the fuels. This is something that has involved environmental organisations across Europe, but in Sweden it has not been mentioned. If, for example, we were to focus this money on trying to electrify the transport sector, it would happen incredibly much faster. Probably it will land in that you have to roll this back. For this reason, we in the Swedish Democrats in our budget have removed subsidies to agricultural biofuels but have retained subsidies to the waste-based ones. For example, you can reuse energy from forest residues or from our food waste. As for these parts that some would say that it would be better to have higher environmental standards in Sweden, I can say that it does not really work that way either. If a product costs 100 SEK to produce in Sweden and 100 SEK in China, for example, but we make it 10 SEK more expensive in Sweden, you will buy the Chinese product. This means that industry moves from Sweden to other European countries or countries outside the EU, where there are completely different requirements. In this way, we also run the risk of driving up emissions. We need to take the global perspective with us. Sweden cannot do everything.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-97	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson from the Swedish Democrats! There is no doubt that you and your party have a lot against renewable energy. It's a lot of fancy turns. You simply do not want to see the development towards more renewable that the whole world is screaming for. You do not want Sweden to be on that train, become more competitive and develop our industry in that direction. Instead, it is nuclear power that you are hanging up the whole of the Swedish energy supply, if I have not misunderstood anything. How do you really want to see Swedish electricity production in the future, Mattias Bäckström Johansson? Where are we going to get our electricity in the future? Who will build this nuclear power that you trust? We have already heard in this debate that Swedish nuclear power owners today say that new nuclear power is a non-issue. New nuclear power is about twice as expensive as renewable energy. Nowhere in the world is it built without large government subsidies. Who will then build nuclear power, and who will pay for it, Mattias Bäckström Johansson?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-99	Madam President, I would like In the Swedish Democrats' energy and climate policy there is a priority to make Sweden independent of oil and reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. That is, I think, the target that is being dropped by the kind of objective that is now being pursued within the framework of the Energy Commission and energy policy as a whole, in which we choose to have 100% renewable. It is prepared to choose a solution that contributes to higher emissions as long as it is renewable. All different parts have a climate impact. Greenhouse gas emissions. In fact, nuclear power has, for example, lower emissions than solar power. But instead, the government is making huge investments in something that actually increases emissions and impacts from the Swedish power system, which is very strange if the focus is on global greenhouse gas emissions. As I said, this is where we differ from other parties. We have an understanding that Sweden, which accounts for approximately 1 per mil of the economy globally, is not able to influence emissions significantly. It must be done with others. Sweden has gone ahead. We have a power system that is exclusively fossil-free and does not have any significant climate impact at all through greenhouse gas emissions. We will also help others to achieve this. We do not have the picture of detailed regulation, different subsidies or subsidies and determining exactly what the power system should look like. But now it has been agreed that it should be 100% renewable. Then you point out additional parts that should have extra funding and support. This will lead completely wrong. That is precisely why we have ended up in the crisis that we have had – we have gone in and made sure that we have got overcapacity, which has dumped prices and led to us getting into this situation, where nothing new can be built at all. Now you are calling for more medicine of the same kind as we have already received, which will not solve the problems of the future.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-104	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson! I listened carefully to your line, but I didn't hear the answer to my question. Who is it really that will build the future nuclear power that you put your faith in? In the Energy Agreement we have taken responsibility for Sweden to have a secure energy supply. Surely it must also be in the interests of the Swedish democrats that we have electricity in the pipelines when we need it? Then it is about: How should we make sure that it is there in the best way? Is this to be done in a way that means that taxpayers have the least possible cost, that consumers have electricity supply and that there are fair conditions for producers? We have chosen to extend renewable energy for many reasons but also for the security of electricity supply in a good way for taxpayers. It's a lot cheaper than nuclear power. You put your faith in something to come. There is nothing in your budget that breathes that you are prepared to take responsibility for security of energy supply in the future if speculation in fourth generation nuclear power even happens. You don't have any money set aside for it. You don't think the nuclear power plants we have today will survive 100 years to come, do you? They will be closed. The question is: what should they be replaced by in a way that is reasonable also in terms of costs for Swedish consumers and taxpayers? Although it will not be a renewable or climate response, I still think that the Swedish Democrats can have an answer to the taxpayers. Who will pay for the new energy production?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-108	Madam President, I would like Member Åsa Westlund says that we do not have any funding for any research reactor. She'd love to read in our budget under envelope 2:1. There is a complete grant for research infrastructure that is being requested. Just go in and read. It may be assumed that it will be done before then. In our world politicians do not say exactly who will build or what will be built. We're going to have a free electricity market, and you're going to be able to buy, sell and do other things. One should not stand on the political path and say who should and must build what. This is not how it works in our vision and picture of how the electricity market should be characterized. It is about ensuring long-term security of supply and securing the conditions for coping with Sweden's major challenges in terms of seasonal variations. There is a difference between winter and summer. We have in winter a much higher demand for electricity than there is in summer time. What is included in the Government's proposal for the area of expenditure is investments exclusively in solar cells. Solar cells will never help solve the problems or challenges we have in winter. At night, the sun does not shine. Then the solar cells can't supply any electricity. Nor do they supply much electricity during the winter months. This is where the government puts its whole focus. It spends all its money on something that will not solve the challenges that Sweden has. Should we increase our production more during the summer months, where we already have a huge production surplus, we will break the conditions for other parts of the power system needed in winter time. This will exacerbate and make more difficult what is Sweden's major challenge in the power market. This will certainly not be the solution to Sweden's future problems.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-113	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson addressed a question to me about nuclear waste. A few years ago when we discussed energy policy, there were some who advocated nuclear power with the argument that it was cheap. That was the most common argument a number of years ago. I can see that no one is using that argument anymore because reality showed that new nuclear power is expensive. One argument we have already heard twice in this debate is that new nuclear technology could solve the problem of the nuclear waste that we have to deal with. Let me say something about that. SKB, Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management, has dismissed the idea that the waste that they are responsible for final disposal could be used in fourth generation nuclear power. It is for both technical and economic reasons. There are researchers at Chalmers University of Technology who have looked at the possibility and found that it would be very much more expensive to reuse waste than to break new ones. Therefore, it is very doubtful whether anyone who would build new expensive nuclear power would also find it interesting to use an expensive waste. Even we parties that want to phase out nuclear power have a responsibility to deal with the existing nuclear waste that is currently in Oskarshamn. It must be preserved safely for future generations. I hope that both I and Mattias Bäckström Johansson are prepared to discuss when the issue will soon be on the table of politics on how to finalize the waste that exists. It is also the case that the longer we run nuclear power, the higher we have to deal with waste. New nuclear power is expensive, and using it would also make it even more expensive. The Swedish Energy Agency shows that we are currently building wind power for 50 øre per kilowatt hour. What price are the Swedish Democrats counting on for what new nuclear power would cost?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-117	Madam President, I would like With regard to who has said what is happening with regard to fast reactors, I can assure Mr Nordin that SKB does not interfere with and comment in various ways on technological developments or on the possibilities of fast reactors. I think you should be very careful about what you say. They have absolutely not dismissed anything, which they have been very clear about on the part of SKB. With regard to the cheapest types of power, it is primarily hydropower, nuclear power and land-based wind power where there are good wind conditions. It's quite similar in terms of prices. Then it is difficult to make comparisons with larger reactors that are not modular and smaller. It is linked to the construction of new generations of nuclear power or new reactor types that are actually the first. There you can easily land in that you could compare what the first wind power cost that you built and with technology development and other things. Compared to what it costs today, a lot has happened. The nuclear power plants that we can see being built in Europe today are new reactors with new technical solutions that have not been built before and which will be the first ones to be built. Of course, it will differ in terms of prices quite clearly. There are great gains in perhaps considering waste as an opportunity to ensure, with technical solutions, that we take responsibility for future generations by reducing the amount of waste, ensuring that it does not have to be disposed of for as long, take care of it and do something good about it and not just bury it. Of course, we will continue to research on a final disposal method, expand and ensure that we have a solution in Sweden to finalise. In our opinion, this has been achieved. The question to the Green Party is: Would one be open to looking, for example, at solutions for how we can reuse it, make it less dangerous and perhaps contribute to the benefit of society?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-122	Madam President, I would like The Green Party is very proud that Sweden now has a majority of Members in this House who are behind a target of 100 percent renewable electricity generation. Of course, 100% renewable means 0% nuclear power. We believe that it will never be safe, or profitable for that matter, or contribute to the sustainability requirements that we in the Riksdag have set up. There is still no solution to the repository anywhere in the world. It is one of the major disadvantages of nuclear power. SKB has given a written opinion publicly available on their website where they comment on the technical possibility to reuse nuclear waste. Let us return to the cost of building new renewable electricity generation, or for those who want new nuclear power. In the world, renewable energy is currently growing fastest because it is the most profitable. In those countries in Europe that are trying to build new nuclear power, the price tag shows about SEK 1 per kilowatt hour. As I said earlier, the Swedish Energy Agency stated that in Sweden today we are building wind power for 50 øre per kilowatt hour. This means that reality shows that new nuclear power is twice as expensive as new wind power. My last question to the Swedish Democrats will be: Which country in the world do the Swedish Democrats believe that nuclear power is based in a way that is appealing, i.e. without government subsidies and with a price tag that makes it even relevant to spend more time debating in Parliament discussing new nuclear power?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-126	Madam President, I would like It is about the same trouble in Sweden. Nothing else is being built for that matter either. It is subsidies and subsidies for over ten years that allow us to build different things. Already there we land in that no wind power would be built at all because it is unprofitable. There are no market economy incentives at all to build. It will be very interesting if you return to the discussion that has been with the Moderates regarding how you view the energy agreement. You get an answer from one of the parties in the Energy Commission that it should be zero percent nuclear power and no research. Others say that we should definitely include nuclear power and research into new nuclear power and also new generation nuclear power. In terms of disposal, Sweden has been way ahead with its KBS-3 model with copper capsules. Finland has taken the lead and adopted the concept that we have developed in Sweden. As the Swedish Democrats see it, it is important that we also research various parts of the future. This applies not only to nuclear power but also to renewables for the opportunities available globally to export technology and products to other countries. On the contrary, other countries, which have completely different conditions, may have the highest energy demand, for example, when the sun shines. There solar cells really come in their right place, and there could be good export opportunities for Sweden if we are at the forefront of technology and to be able to improve different parts. Of course, we will research in all areas that Sweden also needs in some sense both for industrial exports and for our country's needs in the power system. We will continue to need some kind of large-scale base power to be able to handle what is the big challenge for the Swedish power system: to manage the seasonal variations. There is no doubt whatsoever that solar cells will never be able to contribute to this solution.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-130	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. In paragraph 2, as far as the framework is concerned, we will abstain from voting because we have a specific opinion. A great deal is happening in the energy sector, not least when it comes to electricity. The energy side is about electricity as well as fuel and heating. There is a reduction in costs; prices go down on the sun, wind and batteries in a way that we have never seen before. It creates new opportunities, and it creates new challenges. Above all, the old business models are rocking. Old companies are in trouble. Politically, too, a great deal has happened since last year's debate. I can proudly say that the Center Party played a crucial role in ensuring that in June we would have the broadest energy agreement we have had in the Swedish Parliament. The Center Party is also the only party that has been involved in all energy agreements in modern times. We do it because we take responsibility. We take responsibility for Sweden. We know that industry needs long-term rules of play, and we know that tough targets are needed to switch to more renewable energy. Then this agreement is important, not least on the electricity side. Soon the Energy Commission will deliver its final report, and then a process will take place in which this will be implemented. We have already adjusted some of the tax rates, and a target for energy efficiency has been developed. But a lot remains to be done. One of the two most important issues I see in the future is the electricity certification system. We must get a good electricity certification system in place with the extension that we agree on. The second issue is that the law on hydroelectric power is passed. When it comes to electricity certificates – the system that brings more renewable energy into the power system – a major responsibility lies with the government. We must negotiate the system with Norway, and it is the government that does. There is a heavy responsibility on the government not to let Norway dictate the terms. One must not allow the problem that we risk in the form of over-expansion to land only in the Swedish knee. It is a potential problem, and Norway is also involved in taking its share of the responsibility. It is not good enough for Sweden to solve a problem that Norway gets because you do not want to be involved in running the system. So a good negotiation means an incredible amount. I also expect a much better negotiation than last time when it comes to the electricity certification system. On the basis of that negotiation came the solar tax, and that is not good enough. The law on hydropower also requires a lot of things, but no negotiations with Norway. It is clear what the goal is for the livelihood of that work. It's in the Energy Agreement. It is a matter of ensuring that the process is not unduly costly and administratively burdensome for the individual. I assume that we are dealing with the situation of small-scale hydropower with environmental processes and trials for dams – dams that have existed in half a millennium but are now to be tested as if they had never existed. It doesn't make any sense. We in the Center Party have wanted to put an end to the ravages of the county boards while the government's internal work is under way. You know that something new comes, and then you should also take it easy so that more people don't get caught. But the government has categorically said no to that. We assume that it will be possible to resolve this issue. We assume that the government will live up to what is stated in the Energy Agreement. It is a prerequisite for us to continue to build trust and trust between parties. Then we need to bail out small-scale hydropower so that we do not end up in this situation in the future. Small hydropower owners should not have to pay millions in large processes that end up with the risk of having to tear down dams that have existed for several hundred years. Then there is no justification for EU law and what it requires. That's a scam you've already pulled once. It was pulled with the sun tax, and it doesn't work. During the year, we have not only seen an agreement on electricity; we have also seen a government with its very own definition of tax exchange. The Green Tax Exchange of the Center Party is about increasing taxes on what we do not want more of – for example emissions that harm the environment – and reducing taxes on what we want to see more of, such as jobs and entrepreneurship. The government, on the other hand, has made a tax shift that is about increasing the tax on renewables, such as sun, wind and ethanol, by blaming the EU. When you are then disproved, you lower the tax again, but not by quite as much as you raised it with from the beginning. It is not for me a green tax exchange; it is just a red tax increase. We in the Center Party not only dismiss the tax increases, but also come with a full battery – a green battery – of new proposals for more renewable electricity generation, a greener transport sector and fewer emissions of climate gases, particles and other things. Unlike the government, we listen to the industry and research and make proposals accordingly. For example, we want to allow more people to benefit from the micro-production deduction. You may not have a suitable roof, but the neighbor does. There may be an opportunity to participate and own a share in a wind turbine. We want those who make the deductions to get them directly on their electricity bill instead of being included in the declaration one year afterwards. This makes them get a much better feedback and a sense of it all in a completely different way. We want to allow neighbours to create small micronets of their own. Maybe that neighbor had a good roof, but your own isn't working. Then it is not allowed today to pull an electric cable from the neighbor's roof to your property. We want to change that. We want to introduce a bonus – the Malus system for cars that gives the environmentally smart cars a bonus and the worse pay for it. We have had proposals passed for a long time, but nothing is happening from the government. In particular, this is also a reduction obligation for fuels, where more renewable fuels are to be incorporated into the transport sector. We are addressing the challenges that we see in the electricity and energy systems of the future. Resources will be devoted to technology development and pilot projects– not to broad grant schemes. That's why we spend a lot of resources on energy stocks. We know that this is not just about rewarding those who want a Tesla battery at home. This also applies to larger pilot projects, such as power to gas, which we see have great potential in Sweden, not least given the good wind conditions we have, so that you can produce gas when we have a surplus of electricity. For us, energy stocks are not just about the individual person. It is about seeing incredibly big gains on the network side, in terms of frequency regulation and quite a lot of other different things that energy stocks can be involved in helping with. Then it is also important to have smart design of the support so that it is not just about the home battery, although of course it is also important. Sweden should be a pioneer country on environmental, climate and energy issues. For the Center Party, it means that we should have things that deliver results. It makes other countries follow suit. It's not about spending the most money, it's about delivering the best results and the strongest competitiveness in combination. Then the emission policy we have at the moment is not good enough to increase emissions. Then it doesn't work to bet the most money. Although we in the Center Party have more money in our energy budget than the government, that is not the crucial role. What matters is that you invest in the right things that reduce emissions. The Center Party in the Alliance Government has proved this year after year. It can't be done by this government, because now emissions are increasing. Emissions are increasing. And it happens incredibly little. Even if you do not want to listen to the Center Party and the Center Party's budget – at least be inspired by your own authority! The Swedish Energy Agency has delivered a proposal for a reduction obligation that is identical to that of the Center Party. They delivered a solar power strategy that talked about a ROT deduction. The Center Party already has this in its budget. On point after point, the agency delivers proposals that the Center Party has already delivered. Fuck our budget if you don't want to be inspired by it, but listen to your authority... because it obviously got the point! I am proud to present this budget on behalf of the Center Party. It is a budget that makes a difference both for the climate and for Swedish competitiveness and for the environment.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-148	Madam President, I would like I note that the Green Tax Change speech by the Center Party is usually forgotten when it comes to raising some climate taxes. What Rickard says is true; the Swedish climate emissions are increasing right now. This is due to the transport sector, whose emissions are increasing. There are a number of taxes now under discussion that could make a big difference. We are talking about carbon tax, air tax and kilometre tax which, according to research, would make a big difference in reducing emissions from the transport sector. All these treasures are against the Center Party. The Center Party is against the government's proposal to increase the CO2 tax. Over the past few months, the Center Party has made a big issue of being against the airline tax and of being against the mileage tax. The Center Party is also opposed to introducing a tax on commercial manure, which has a major impact on the climate. There seems to be quite a lot of empty speeches about the green exchange of taxes. Sweden and the world need the Center Party to stand up for an ambitious climate policy when it actually comes to the concrete proposals that make a difference. I think that the polluter-pays principle is reasonable. We need to introduce new climate taxes and raise existing climate taxes in order to reduce the emissions that are now increasing in the transport sector. I would like to ask Rickard Nordin why the Center Party is opposed to raising the concrete climate taxes that I have just mentioned. According to research, this would be important when it comes to taking responsibility for reducing the climate emissions we have in Sweden and when it comes to raising ambitions and delivering Sweden's contribution to the Paris Agreement, which the world leaders agreed on a year ago.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-153	Madam President, I would like I can start by saying that it is fun that the government chooses to investigate the climate taxes that the Center Party already has in its budget, such as waste incineration taxes. But I'm gonna pick this list off. It's gonna be pretty quick. As far as the air tax is concerned, the investigator himself said that this risks increasing emissions. It is a rather modest reduction that is being talked about, but there is a risk that they will increase. Then it is just a tax increase and not an environmental measure. Instead, the Center Party proposes that we get more of it into emissions trading. That's where it makes a difference. We will also ensure that we get more research on biofuels. We could also consider whether there is no possibility of being subject to reduction even in the case of aviation fuel. These are things that would make a difference in reality. That's the Center Party point. We'll make sure it's an environmental result, not environmental talk. Emissions are increasing now, Lise Nordin. They didn't do that under the alliance government. That's the big difference. As far as the kilometre tax is concerned, there is a risk of removing the entire biomass base that we are also going to use for second generation biofuels. If, because of the kilometre tax, we remove the economic profitability of taking biomass out of the forest, it is just a tax increase and not an environmental measure. In the case of commercial manure, the tax was removed because it did not make any difference. We saw that when it comes to eutrophication and so on, emissions fell anyway. It wasn't the fertilizer tax that did it. It only makes it more expensive for Swedish farmers, and that in turn makes emissions move abroad. We had a fairly clear trend towards less agricultural production in Sweden under that tax. This makes you produce somewhere else. It is not just a question of longer transport, it is also a question of less stringent environmental requirements in other countries. Then we'll just move the emissions somewhere else. The big point of the Center Party's budget and our proposals is: we make a real difference. For us, it is absolutely a question of the emitter paying. But it should also make a difference, and it does not do so with the taxes that Lise Nordin lists. That is why we have chosen other solutions that produce correct results, and this is shown in the statistics.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-159	Madam President, I would like I note that the Center Party, in its argument on climate taxes, is opposed to climate research, the environmental movement and the voters. The Government's investigation into a Swedish aviation tax was recently presented. In this connection, an investigation was carried out into the attitude of the Swedish people towards a flight tax. We note that a large majority of the Swedish people, including a majority of the Centre Party voters, want to see the introduction of a flight tax. There are more and more people who realize that it needs to cost to pollute. I am pleased about cooperation with the Center Party on many issues relating to electricity generation and 100% renewable. However, the talk of green tax shifting is not credible when you are opposed to tax on taxes that are actually about reducing climate emissions. I regret that the Center Party, like a number of debaters on the issue of air tax, has chosen to focus on a sentence in the investigation that says that there is a theoretical possibility in a scenario that emissions could increase. I do not think it has escaped the Center Party that a large number of Sweden's climate scientists are currently very active in the debate and say: Finally, we have a proposal to introduce a flight tax in Sweden, which together with other climate taxes could make a difference. I share Rickard Nordin's concern that emissions in the transport sector are currently increasing. That is precisely why it is all the more important to take political responsibility and discuss the climate taxes that climate research, the environmental movement and voters are asking for. I sincerely hope that the Center Party will reconsider. For what is the talk of green tax exchange worth if you are not prepared to increase climate taxes, Rickard Nordin?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-163	Madam President, I would like Green tax exchange is about also reducing taxes on the things you want more of. The Green Party and the government have not been able to do that. That is very clear in the budget that is being presented. It's just about bringing in more tax money. That's what the airline tax is all about. Had it been a tax to actually reduce emissions, it would have been designed differently. It has also been very clear in the investigation's proposal. You can look at the opportunities for emission reductions that are being talked about. It would be about the same as people quitting smoking if we removed New Year's fireworks. That is the level of emission reductions that we are talking about. It's nowhere near what would be needed. It is not close to how emissions have increased during the Green Party's time in government, just in the past year. The problem is that things are limping. Compare with the solar treasure! I promise you, you can find much more support to remove it. Yet it has been introduced. It has introduced a tax that people do not want and which Europe does not say we need. It also makes a difference in reality. We have had a much smaller expansion of solar energy. Once again, it becomes a problem. It'll be a problem when it's just talk. Now we're talking about potential taxes to be introduced. Why don't we have a bonus – Malus proposal in place? Why don't we have a reduction obligation in place? It's been two years of the reign. These were things that the Environmental Party in the election movement promised to introduce on 1 January 2017, I heard from previous spokespersons. We don't have it in place. That's the problem. You don't deliver once you're in power. You deliver fine words. People like to talk about tax increases, but they don't deliver reduced emissions. Emissions are increasing. That is what matters, not what taxes or other things you introduce. It matters that we have a real climate policy, and that is where the Green Party does not deliver.
i-Rbdy993onn7Kw55BG3eM4r	Madam President, I would like In this case, the Government's budget proposal is dealt with in the parts relating to Category 21 Energy. The Left Party agrees with the government on the budget presented – we support it. In many respects, we are even proud of the government's budget. But the differences will manifest before my appearance is over-- it's quite clear. Here, however, I would like to take this opportunity to ask for approval of the proposal and rejection of the motions concerning the appropriations for Category 21 Energy. Madam President, I would like The 2017 budget proposal shows that the overall objective of energy policy is to ensure the availability of electricity and other energy in the short and long term on conditions that are competitive compared to the rest of the world. Energy policy aims to create conditions for efficient and sustainable energy use and a cost-effective Swedish energy supply with a low impact on health, the environment and climate and facilitate the transition to an ecologically sustainable society. This promotes good economic and social development throughout Sweden. Sounds great, doesn't it? As most people probably know, there is an energy agreement that the government, along with the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, have signed. There is much in that agreement that the Left Party can support. Here I can count on continued efforts to stimulate the expansion of renewable energy sources, the target of 100% renewable energy by 2040 and that targets for energy efficiency will be set. There are many good things that make, among other things, the industry need not doubt that we have a reliable electricity supply in the country. In our particular opinion, there are a few points I would like to highlight. The Left Party believes that some things in the energy settlement risk driving the development of energy in the wrong direction. Not having a political position on nuclear energy at all is such a thing, and this risks hampering the development of renewable energy sources. To leave the market entirely to decide whether or not to maintain nuclear power for decades, even the technology used today, which is dangerous and uncertain and can mean the continued exploitation of the finite resource uranium, is incomprehensible to us in the Left Party. I cannot, however I try to be kind to you who have signed this agreement, find a sound view that it should only be the market that determines whether or not we should keep nuclear power in the country. Politics determines what housing should look like externally in our society, what colors can be used and what chemicals the paint we paint with may contain. Until 2009, there were even EU rules that set out how bent a cucumber may be. The list can be made as long as possible. There are certainly things that politics should not interfere with, but that hardly belongs to nuclear power. We are actually talking about the most dangerous energy production in the event of an accident. There, the parties that signed the energy agreement think that politics should not interfere with whether or not we should have nuclear power. Talk about priorities! Madam President, I would like In addition to this, the Left Party, which I agree with, believes that it is problematic to abolish the nuclear-related tax on thermal power and to finance this by allowing households to receive higher energy tax. Here there might have been other incentives to insure controlled decommissioning or preservation so that industry and society would not have felt insecure. Vattenfall is the largest owner of the remaining reactors. Madam President, I would like Under the same report, we shall decide on the economic objectives of the Swedish power grid, and I hereby request that the Left Party's reservation 3 be approved in paragraph 3. The aim of the exercise is that the return requirement for the business should be reviewed in order to reduce the same so that it will be easier for Swedish power networks to invest in future networks and strengthen transmission capacity within the nation and also in transmission lines to neighbouring countries. As I said when it comes to nuclear power, there are certainly many things where you think that the world has not had the best solution. I can mention Germany, for example. It might not have been the best scenario for us either to stress out an important energy source. But that politics would have no opinion at all about Rosatom or anyone else who wants to build a reactor, the Left Party has difficulty with that.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-177	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Left and Birger Lahti for their good work on the budget that we are now discussing. I would like to go on to say that there is an appropriation that I am very proud of the fact that it is disappearing in this budget, and that is the allocation for the replacement of nuclear power, i.e. for the two reactors of Barsebäck, which closed in 1999 and 2005 respectively. Until now, the budget has paid several hundred million SEK in compensation for the closure of Barsebäck in so-called damages. When Barsebäck was closed in Sweden it was with a political decision, a stop date for the nuclear reactors. To close nuclear power in this way means that the state will be obliged to pay damages. I and the Green Party do not think it reasonable for taxpayers to be involved in paying for the shutdown of nuclear power. What is happening now is that four out of ten reactors are shut down after a decision by the nuclear owners. This means that taxpayers do not have to pay compensation. After the Left Party recently wavered around nuclear power at its congress, I still think that it landed well, and I believe that our two parties share the common view that nuclear power should be phased out as soon as possible. The Green Party lands in that it is possible by 2030, Left Party by 2040, and we have an energy agreement between five parties that we will have 100% renewable electricity production by 2040. In concrete terms, however, the question is growing: how does the Left Party want to shut down nuclear power? If you are critical of the wording of the Energy Agreement not to introduce a stop date, is the Left Party's response that it wants to reintroduce a so-called decommissioning law in which the policy decides to close reactors and which therefore means that taxpayers will have to pay damages? Is that how the Left Party wants to shut down nuclear power?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-184	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lise Nordin, for the question and your analyses! I agree that it is a good thing that this item of expenditure does not exist. I know that they have paid, I think, 600 – 700 million all in all for the decommissioning of Barsebäck. Nor do I think that this is the right way to go. However, as I mentioned in my speech, Vattenfall is the largest owner of the remaining reactors. There would have been other ways of reacting to a company owned by the state. I have a counter-question. I agree that we certainly have a similar view on nuclear energy. But here's what the Green Party's election platform says:. Nuclear power is based on highly environmentally damaging uranium mining, a finite natural resource, and results in radioactive waste being handed over to future generations to deal with. Nuclear power also poses major risks in both uranium mining and reactor operation and transport of fuel and waste. ..................................................... I asked the Moderates a question: how would it feel if, in 20 years' time, a company called Rosatom or something that wants to build a reactor with the technology used today, for 70 - 80 cents, and which involves uranium mining? Your agreement is based on the fact that politics should not stop this if there are no subsidies for it. Does Lise Nordin think it fits into the Green Party's policy?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-189	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has for a long time been pushing the target of 100 percent renewable energy and now has a target that five parties are supporting of 100 percent renewable electricity production by 2040. This means that no new nuclear power is being built. We look at the market conditions that new nuclear power is a non-issue. The central discussion we are now having is about how to ensure the electricity generation we need when the existing nuclear power becomes old and phased out. With Sweden having extended renewable energy for a long time, we now manage to shut down four out of ten reactors. As an environmental party, I am very proud that we are now ensuring that four reactors can shut down during the time we are discussing, i.e. until 2020, and that renewable energy and energy efficiency cover up. I would say that the situation we have with conversions that are going on more quickly than ever shows that it was the right way not to start arguing for or advocating a decommissioning law. I am very pleased that taxpayers have no liability when nuclear power is now shut down. Do I understand correctly that Birger Lahti and the Left Party do not want a new decommissioning law and do not want to impose a ban on nuclear power? In that case, I think we really want exactly the same thing: we ensure that nuclear power is phased out step by step until we have reached a fully renewable energy system and that the way there is to develop alternatives and ensure that renewables are expanded. There we are five parties that agree on a major effort corresponding to 18 terawatt hours in the electricity certification system by 2030 and a new target for energy efficiency. We are also ensuring that nuclear power must not be subsidised, directly or indirectly. This means that we also agree that the Riksdag agrees to increase the liability for nuclear power, which today is approximately SEK 3 billion and is now expected to increase to SEK 12 billion. With this policy, we are taking step by step towards 100% renewable, and I think it is a very good road. Does the Left Party want anything other than that road towards 100% renewable?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-197	Madam President, I would like There is much that we agree on, including having 100% renewable by 2040. As I mentioned in my speech, I think it is a good thing. But Lise Nordin does not answer my question: how would it feel if there were any company, such as Rosatom, in 20 years' time and said that we were building a new reactor year for you? Lise Nordin did not answer that question. You say that you are opposed to the construction of new reactors in Sweden. But you don't. You let go. If the market can build a new reactor, it can. That's what you do in your energy settlement. Lise Nordin doesn't come from that. I think it is good that the certification system should be extended. But if something happens to a large wind farm, a wing falls off and kills some people and there are new demands for containment, everything comes in a whole new light. Then there may come a guy from Russia, from Rosatom, who says they build for 70 - 80 cents. It could be on the verge. According to your agreement, it is okay; politics should not interfere if it is to be nuclear. We in the Left Party are definitely in favour of a balanced resolution. That's why I told you that Vattenfall will own the remaining reactors. It's the biggest owner. It is possible to do so in other ways, but we definitely want a ban on new reactors. It is quite another matter to start paying for them than to use a political path to dismantle them. You open the door to new reactors if it wants to – for those who want to build, so to speak.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-201	Madam President, I would like The Left Party says that there is no clear political position in the agreement on nuclear power. I do not agree with that, but I think it is clear. There is no stopping date for nuclear power. The nuclear power tax will be removed, and we will enable new reactors if there is a demand. The Left Party wonders what would happen if the market were to think. But who is the market? The market is the consumer. What consumers are asking for right now are climate-smart, sustainable solutions, and that is probably the development we will see. A question that we were discussing in our previous change of line, to which I feel I did not receive an answer and to which I take this opportunity to put again, concerns the timetable of the Left Party. In our previous shift in line, the Left Party said that you want to close nuclear power as quickly as possible. In the speech you then say that you do not want to rush out nuclear power in the same way as in Germany. I want a clear answer: when does the Left Party want to close nuclear power?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-205	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It's good that Sofia Fölster remembers that I haven't answered anything. You didn't answer a single question. I only had one question, but you didn't answer. I will return to the question. My party decided at its congress that nuclear power will be dismantled as quickly as possible. As quickly as possible means to me that I am protecting industry as quickly as we can build for the renewable, phase out and not disrupt the industry in a way that makes it feel insecure. It's for me as fast as possible. What makes us different from you who are in the deal is that we do not want to open up to the market. Sofia Fölster said the market is the consumer. Yeah, that's it. However, the fact that the policy should not have an opinion at all on the expansion of nuclear power, or a new reactor with old technology, is difficult for us. I mentioned in my speech that there are rules for what a house façade should look like and what colours may be used. I'm not allowed to paint the facade in any color I want. That's where politics interferes. There are rules that rule that we can't behave in any way. However, as regards the rules for a new reactor, which in the case of an olycca is the most dangerous technology available, you think that politics should not interfere. Sofia Fölster gets another chance. How do you feel about a company called Rosatom, which wants to build a new reactor in Sweden with the technology that exists today, i.e. old technology, and that uranium mining continues? I'll give you one more chance.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-209	Madam President, I would like In general, I think that politics decides too much. I would also have big points of view if politics were to start interfering in the colour of the house façade and in what color you can paint your house. I would also have great views on this. Generally speaking, I think it is good when politics decides less. Birger Lahti answered my question that it should be done as quickly as possible. For him, it can be interpreted as when you have time to build an alternative. However, if we are to interpret your decision to vote as to phase out nuclear power as quickly as possible, I must say that it is possible to close nuclear power tomorrow. Let us interpret your decision and what many other representatives have said. They have actively argued in favour of shutting down nuclear power directly. Then there will be major problems with Swedish energy production. Almost 40% of the energy supply disappears overnight. Industry is on its knees, households are not getting the energy they need and there are great risks of dependence on fossil fuels, Russian gas or other things that are much worse. You need to be even clearer. It is not enough to say that it must wait until there are other alternatives. You are asking for a clear deadline for nuclear power. That was Birger Lahti's main criticism in his speech. I want a clear answer. When is your deadline for nuclear power?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-212	Madam President, I would like I'm going to disappoint Sofia Fölster on one thing. There are rules that tell me what color I can use. I'm not allowed to paint the facade gredelin. The rules already exist today. That's it. Politics interferes in a lot. The Left Party is struggling that the policy would not interfere with the existence of nuclear reactors in the country. Then Sofia Fölster may find it difficult for politics to decide what colour it should be on the facade. I said that nuclear power will be decommissioned as quickly as possible. It can happen as quickly as possible if it is phased out so that it does not disturb the industry. The Left Party also does not want Sweden to end up in the situation that the industry cannot trust that there is an electricity supply. That is my answer, that is, as quickly as possible when there is something else in place. What the Left Party cannot accept is that politics would have no say in the case of a new reactor being built by Rosatom, for example. They'd have to do the service of the reactor. Sofia Fölster has still not answered. You've had four chances. How would it feel if a company like Rosatom came to build a reactor? Now you don't get that chance.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-217	Mr President, I would like to Energy policy is one of the cornerstones of a functioning society. Security of energy supply is a prerequisite for our prosperity. Liberals have three overarching objectives for our energy policy. It is the climate, security of supply and energy security. The objective of Swedish energy policy, and above all at European and global level, must be 100% carbon-free. It is, in our view, a much more relevant objective and much more urgent to meet than the government's 100% renewable vision. We see renewable energy as an important means of achieving cheap and environmentally friendly electricity generation, but not as an end in itself. Instead, the aim should be to protect the nearly 100% fossil-free electricity system that Sweden still has. Liberals believe that there are significantly greater climate gains to be achieved by taking action in the sectors with high climate emissions, unlike the electricity sector. I am thinking of the transport sector, the processing industry and agriculture. Autumn has been marked by a crisis in the climate issue. Alarming news has come from the Arctic about how much faster the ice melts than we thought and how much higher the average temperature has been this year than we thought. The climate threat cannot wait for a 100% renewable world. All emission-free energies are needed to meet the challenge. Madam President, I would like Liberals are not behind the Energy Agreement. We believe that the agreement provides for large subsidies to weather-dependent electricity production, entailing significant socio-economic costs without providing any benefit to the climate. Supply-side incentives are proposed at the same time as introducing a target to significantly reduce energy supply. The overall socio-economic impact of the proposals can be significant. The Liberals were also the first party to push the issue of the abolition of the tax on nuclear power. We therefore welcome the fact that the impact tax is now being phased out. The reduction of the property tax on hydro power is also a good thing. We believe that efficiency improvements and new investments are needed for what is the crown jewel in our Swedish energy mix. At the same time, the strange situation arises that the state should facilitate the renovation of nuclear power through the abolition of power taxes, while allowing powerful subsidies to allow new wind power to compete with nuclear power. Liberals are also doubtful about the energy agreement mentioned above because it contains wordings about the future of nuclear power, which are so difficult to understand that even those who are behind the agreement do not agree on the meaning. Madam President, I would like I attended a seminar in the last week, which began by stating that Sweden is now moving towards 100% renewable and that nuclear power will therefore be shut down. It is a view that thrives in parts of the energy industry, eagerly encouraged by, among others, the Green Party, but hardly the interpretation that Moderates or Christian Democrats would make of the same agreement. When the parties disagree on the agreement itself, it naturally creates an unfortunate uncertainty about the future role of nuclear power in our system. Madam President, I would like There are great advantages to increasing the interconnection of electricity networks in the Nordic countries and Europe. Overall, this leads to lower costs and better environmental performance. By exporting climate-smart electricity to our EU neighbours, for example, we can contribute to climate change while contributing to our neighbours' energy security and reducing their dependence on unsafe energy suppliers. In times of increased conflict in our neighbourhood, where, among other things, gas supplies are used as a means of political pressure, security of energy supply is needed at European level. The government lacks an understanding of how close security policy is to energy policy and what security policy aspects and the consequences of government policy are. How does it affect Lithuania, for example, that Sweden closes four reactors in the near future, and what are the consequences of our EU neighbours' dependence on gas when Sweden now chooses to increase subsidies for renewable energy? Sweden is not an island. Government policy can have drastic consequences for our neighbours. I miss that perspective in the energy agreement. Madam President, I would like We are living in an exciting time when there is a rapid technological development in the energy sector. There is a great potential to continue developing renewable energies, solar energy and biogas and to develop newer technologies such as wave power. Technical innovations and product development as well as the development of new services and business models are important elements for creating a long-term sustainable energy system. With an increased share of renewable energy, the need for storage and flexibility in the energy system increases. Liberals therefore want to see research and innovation initiatives in energy storage and batteries. More doors need to be kept open to ensure a sustainable energy system in the longer future. We therefore believe that fourth generation nuclear reactors have the potential to reduce CO2 emissions while allowing waste to be processed and used as fuel. For the sake of climate, the proposal from our leading technical universities to build a Swedish research reactor should be implemented. In connection with the processing of the research bill, we will allocate funds to such a research reactor. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to return to the energy policy objectives that the Liberals believe in. The focus should be on climate, security of supply and energy security. This is how we get a well-functioning energy policy that does not stop at our own navel, at Sweden's borders, but can ensure climate and energy security even among our neighbours.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-233	Madam President and Maria Weimer! Liberals are now outside two cross-block agreements in central parts of Swedish politics, namely defence and energy policy. Now that the Liberals are sawing these agreements along with the ankles, it would be interesting to hear some reflections on how one sees the possibility of forming a government with someone after the next election. I suppose that is the aim of the Liberals, but I find it a little difficult to see that we should be able to cooperate with parties that stand up for these agreements when the criticism is as harsh as it is on the part of the Liberals. As always, the Liberals are a big fan of nuclear power. I welcome the fact that the Liberals with you, Maria Weimer, as a spokesperson in energy policy, nevertheless do not say absolutely no to renewables, but still want to see such efforts. I also welcome your security policy focus. I think it is an extremely important perspective to have with you even when you talk about energy issues. But I wonder: why are you less concerned about dependence on Russian uranium than on Russian gas? Why isn't that a question you're thinking about? Nevertheless, some owners of nuclear power plants in Sweden have had up to 60 percent of Russian uranium in the nuclear power plants. If Russia, as one of the world's major exporters of uranium, wanted to use this pressure force for some reason, it would greatly change the conditions for security of supply not only in Sweden but also in other parts of the world. Why are the Liberals less concerned about dependence on Russian uranium than Russian gas?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-239	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with the second question. I am interested in and closely follow the issue of Russian uranium. When I visited Ringhal's nuclear power plant last year, we discussed that very issue. We learned that there are a number of fuel rods in Ringhal's nuclear power plants containing Russian uranium. On the other hand, there was no concern at all in the power company that this would lead to some kind of dependence on Russia. The market for uranium and fuel rods is such that one can turn to another supplier at any time, so Russia would try to play out the question of whether uranium exports can be addressed to Canada or any other country supplying fuel rods. So there was no such concern at all at Ringhals. The proportion of Russian uranium in Ringhals I think is a few percent of the total, so that's a very small percentage. So there is no concern at all about this issue at present, but of course it is an issue to be followed closely. We are critical of all types of energy dependency, especially of undemocratic states, so of course that is something we should continue to follow. But I think I can reassure Åsa Westlund for the time being. As far as the energy agreement and the defence agreement are concerned, we have pursued the policy on which we went to elections. On the issue of defence, I think it is clear to everyone how inadequate the agreement was. It turns out every day in reports that the defence is insufficiently funded. I am very glad that we are outside. We will be right in the long run. With regard to the energy agreement, too, we have been clear that we do not believe in the subsidies proposed. We went in with that policy from the beginning and stuck to it until the end of the negotiations – unlike some friends in the Alliance who compromised well, in my opinion, and agreed to a policy that does not really rhyme with the party's view of energy policy at all.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-245	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Maria Weimer! At present, I absolutely believe that it is easy to find other suppliers of uranium. But the question is what happens if a major exporter like Russia and perhaps some other country – the most important countries for commercial uranium mining are Australia, Kazakhstan, Canada, Russia, Niger and Namibia – shut down their production or at least their exports of uranium. It is clear that it will affect the whole world market, drive up prices and also affect supply. Although this situation does not exist today, it is something that must be brought along in the long run. Here we are talking about long-term perspectives, and we need to be prepared for many things – including the fact that Russia wants to use its uranium also for various types of political pressure. There are, of course, other aspects of nuclear power that also have to do with safety. I can feel some concern that we are dependent on production in a small few places in the country that account for a very large part of our production. From a purely security perspective, I think it feels pretty good that we are beginning to have more decentralised and distributed energy production than we have had in the past. I welcome the loyalty to the Baltic countries that Maria Weimer mentioned in her speech. It is obviously a good thing that we can export electricity to the Baltic countries that is fossil-free and climate-smart. But that also applies to renewable energy. I find it difficult to understand the overtones of opposition to our investing in renewables in Sweden. We can actually sell part of the surplus, the days we have it, to the Baltics. Surely that does not make those countries any less independent of Russia that it is renewable in the lead than that it is Swedish nuclear power.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-248	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. We like renewable energy very well. Unlike the government, we only think that it should be built when it is needed and when someone wants to pay for it. We do not believe that we currently need the type of subsidies that the energy agreement entails. Of course we're going to export to the Baltics. Now I do not think that Lithuania, with the electricity cable that is there, now has the greatest need for our electricity during hot summer days, when solar energy could increase exports. What the Baltic States need is something to replace the gas, which was a balancing and a control force. Unfortunately, at present, I do not believe that increasing wind power production in Sweden would help these countries avoid dependence on Russian gas. They need another type of electricity import. I am not at all opposed to such a decentralised electrical system as Åsa Westlund describes. I do not really have any comments on what it looks like as long as it is a functioning market without subsidies. If we have a functioning system that is decentralised, it can certainly be an advantage. The first thing you mentioned, Åsa Westlund, was the uranium issue. I will, of course, continue to follow it, and I assume that the Government Party will do the same; you have a greater responsibility for Swedish energy security at the moment. Should there be changes in the uranium market, it is clear that you have to look at where you take your fuel rods from. Right now I am more worried about Lithuania and how they will manage their imports from Sweden when the four reactors close in the next few years. After all, this is due to the increase in the impact tax the other year, for which the government has to take responsibility. I believe that the Lithuanian energy policies I have met also feel the same concern: now we have just built a cable – what happens to electricity imports from Sweden? I'd be a little more worried if I were a Baltic politician.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-253	Madam President, I would like I was going to focus on a few specific areas in the area of expenditure we are discussing: energy issues. I would first of all like to turn to the debate and discussion that has taken place on small hydropower. My colleague from the Center, Rickard Nordin, was in that area before. Those of us who protect rural areas and not least the rural economy are anxious that this can work well, with sustainable environmental solutions of course. However, undue costs must not be incurred that allow people to walk from house and home. I am pleased that we have been worded precisely in the Energy Agreement that we should not have excessive administration and an excessive cost. Then the question is how to formulate this on the part of the county boards. They are, of course, the regulatory authority that has been chasing the small hydropower owners more or less for a couple of years. There have also already been a lot of judgments that have made life quite miserable for many who have been doing this for generations. We hope that the Christian Democrats will be able to get legal and financial help in this, if they have already been affected by various judgments. I have not met any owner of small hydropower who has been against good environmental solutions. No one has said that they do not want to contribute to this. But if you say from the county administrative board that this will cost half a million, where will the money be taken? This is largely the case in areas where the County Administrative Board has been particularly intensive. With the energy agreement, and what I understand also the awakening of county boards, I very much hope for lasting solutions that will give rural businesses a chance to survive. Madam President, I would like Several of my colleagues have spoken about energy research. We Christian Democrats, too, have preferred energy research that covers all areas of energy. Nuclear technology is clearly an area in which we need to continue research; it also applies to several new renewable energies. As long as we still have nuclear power, we must, of course, look at how it will develop, even if it will eventually be phased out. We must also continue to have the skills of those who will work with it – otherwise we risk having a workforce that cannot handle nuclear power properly. When we talk about safety, it is nevertheless interesting that the first research reactor in Sweden was located in central Stockholm, under KTH. So it is clear that the security and the thinking surrounding it has increased significantly since then. But the fact is that, as far as I remember, that reactor was in operation at some point in the 1970s; it is still not that long ago. I look forward to seeing the forthcoming energy research bill, which will contain all these elements. It is also interesting to hear the Green Party representative in this debate talking about the party as the great defender of Swedish politics for all kinds of taxes in this area. I cannot understand, for my life, how one might think that air tax, kilometre tax and what it can be is the solution to the environmental and energy problems – increased tax rather than addressing the source of the problems. For me as a Christian Democrat, it is more about making sure to get more biogas, for example. What is it that means that many municipalities in Sweden still do not have source sorting of their waste, so that we produce organic waste that can be converted into biogas? What gives you year after year an exemption for poor management of your waste? The City of Stockholm is a brilliant example of poor waste management when it comes to the possibilities to make smart use of all food waste so that we can produce more biogas. Now the Green Party and the Social Democrats are in government. Then make sure that these municipalities simply get their thumbs out and do something about it, because it is scandalous! I remember when the first Environmental Handbook came, which was sold in several hundred thousand copies; I do not remember what the authors were called. There they really went in to get people to sort out sources, and that is almost 30 years ago. How is it that you do not work to get biogas and other biofuels going really fast here in Sweden? In other motions, we Christian Democrats have written that the tariffs on biomass within the EU must be removed in order for us to be able to transform not least Swedish forests into biofuels. There is a great deal in this that I see that as a nation we can do with the natural resources we have to strengthen the future energy supply overall. I am very pleased that the Christian Democrats are part of the energy agreement that was concluded in June and also to be able to look forward to a report from the Energy Commission, which I believe guarantees a long-term supply of electricity.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-266	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. There is, as many have done, a major change in the world in terms of energy use and production, and luckily so. The latest Arctic horror figures are very worrying: 20 degrees warmer than normal for the season. Hopefully it is a coincidence that it has become so much warmer than normal, but unfortunately the trend for the global climate is very clear. Reducing the world's climate emissions is a matter of great urgency. Perhaps it was also that insight that made it faster and smoother than expected to agree on the Paris Agreement and also to ratify it worldwide. The alternatives to fossil energy are becoming cheaper. The price of renewable energy production goes down; this is noticeable not least on the solar side. In just five to six years it has become 80 percent cheaper to produce solar electricity, and development continues. The Swedish Energy Agency believes that sun can account for 5-10 per cent of Swedish electricity use in 2040. In my own residential area there is advertising for installing solar packages on the roofs, and this is a development we welcome and in several ways have been pushing on since the Social Democrats and the Green Party took power. The government has made it easier and cheaper than ever to invest in solar electricity. Sweden has come a long way in the development we are now looking at all over the world. Of course, it depends on many different things. It depends on our fantastic natural resources, the water and the forest, and on skilled technicians and entrepreneurs – as well as forward-looking politicians. We have the highest share of renewable energy production in the EU. At the same time, we have the largest share of renewable energy in our vehicles, although it is of course far too low. We are not satisfied either, but the government's goal is for Sweden to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. After 30 years of political disagreement on energy policy, we have since June a broad, cross-block energy agreement that 75 per cent of the members of the Swedish Parliament are behind. It is in itself valuable, and I would really like to thank everyone involved and everyone who helped get the agreement in place. It is a tremendous strength for our country to succeed in gathering such great democratic support to create long-term rules of the game for a sector that is so central to everything in our society, namely the energy sector. With this agreement, where we agree on objectives and measures, everyone should be able to feel confident that we will always have access to electricity when we need it – and in a sustainable and competitive way. The goal of the agreement is a 100% renewable electricity system by 2040. The agreement also means that we agree on a large part of the measures needed to get there. The electricity certification system shall be extended and extended by 18 terawatt hours until 2030. 18 terawatt hours corresponds to all the electricity used for heating in all Sweden's small houses and multi-detached houses in a whole year. In addition, before the agreement, the government had already achieved an ambition increase in the electricity certification system of 5 terawatt hours by 2020. The agreement also contains many other important elements, and I would like to mention some of them in particular. With this agreement, we have undertaken not to close any nuclear power plants with political decisions. At the same time, we agree that nuclear power should bear its own costs and not be subsidised in any way. We are going to introduce modern environmental requirements for hydropower, in which the testing system is to be designed in a way that does not become unduly administrative and economically burdensome. We also committed ourselves to agreeing on an energy efficiency target. We have five parties who are already behind the agreement. Sweden will have 50 percent more efficient energy use in 2030 compared to 2005. Both the tax on thermal power and the property tax on hydro power are lowered. This means that we will now be able to secure a 100% renewable transition. As stated in the Energy Agreement, energy research has a crucial role to play in ensuring that new innovative technologies are developed for all renewable energies. That is why I am pleased that the government in the budget that we are now discussing is increasing the appropriations for energy research. I am also pleased that the government is highlighting gender issues in the energy sector as well. It's necessary. An industry that is so knowledge-intensive cannot afford to lose employees because there are structures that benefit men over women. Several parties in opposition want to see different forms of support for charging infrastructure. The government would also like to see such support – but within the framework of the huge increase in ambition made by the government to promote climate investment, Climate Change. Until September this year it has resulted in support for 4 740 new charging poles around the country. Finally, I note that all parties that do not support the government's budget want to cut expenditure, except the Center Party. The reason why the Center Party gets a bigger budget in this spending area is that they have put their investment in charging infrastructure here, while the government – like all other parties – funds similar things in other spending areas. Madam President, I would like Energy policy is an important part of building a sustainable society. Jobs and welfare in Sweden depend on a good and reliable supply of electricity that is produced sustainably at competitive prices. Sweden should be an active part of the energy transformation we now see in the world. This is important for both Swedish competitiveness and the climate. The Government's draft budget for 2017, together with the Energy Agreement, provides us with good conditions for this.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-285	Madam President, I would like I was going to ask Åsa Westlund about something related to Swedish electricity exports. Electricity exports have increased since the introduction of the electricity certification system and built up an overcapacity in the Swedish power market that has not been demanded by the market. The Swedish Democrats have absolutely nothing against electricity exports, based on a commercial basis, or trade with our neighbours – quite the contrary. There may also, as has been said here before, be other dimensions than just a business basis. There may be a security policy context, for example through the Nordbalt cable. It is one of the few exceptions, but it is certainly one that can be taken into account. Looking at the new production that has been built up mainly in Sweden and which is land-based wind power, there is, as other debaters here today point out, perhaps somewhere around 50 öre with better winds. It can be used as a starting point to look at what we are getting paid for the electricity we export, and we can look at the last five years. In 2011 we exported about 7 terawatt hours and got in round rolls 37.6 øre for the electricity we exported. These exports have gradually increased; we have gone from 7 terawatt hours annually up to 22 terawatt hours, which we had last year – while what we get for electricity has decreased from 37 öre down to 18 öre. This means that our cost for the investment in a production plant is 50 öre, and then we sell the electricity for 18 öre. In the last five years alone, Sweden has thus directed subsidies to Danish, German and Finnish industries of nearly SEK 20 billion. Swedish electricity consumers have had to press in with the fact that they are involved in paying for the electricity certification system. For us, therefore, it becomes very unrealistic when the energy agreement lands in that one should scale up the business further by pushing in 18 terawatt hours to. The question you might ask yourself is: In what way will we strengthen Swedish competitiveness by subsidising industry in our neighbouring countries?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-290	Madam President, I would like I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for the question. I think it is important that we have overcapacity in Sweden and that we are net exporters of electricity. Not least given the security situation we have, I think it is good that we have that possibility; I think it provides great security both for industry and for consumers in our country that we have that type of energy system. I am also pleased that we can export electricity on the days we have a surplus. Mattias Bäckström Johansson is quite sceptical about cables to other countries and would like to have as self-sufficient a system as possible, where we are largely shut off from the outside world. This would reduce the possibility of selling energy surpluses at all, which would in itself lead to high costs for consumers. If we had a more blocked national system, we would have to have a much greater overproduction at national level in order to guarantee that we have electricity in the contacts at all times. My question to Mattias Bäckström Johansson is therefore: How did you intend to finance the overproduction we must have if we are not to have cables for our neighbours and enable export the days we have too much electricity?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-294	Madam President, I would like In the long term, there must always be a correlation between the price of electricity and the cost of it. The difference between the two is something that Swedish electricity consumers today, via the electricity certification system, are allowed to pay. Then we chance the electricity off cheaply to our neighbours. Denmark, Germany and Finland will then benefit from cheap Swedish electricity that Swedish electricity consumers have had to pay for. It is in the round of SEK 20 billion in targeted subsidies only in the last five years. We are now landing in that we are going to scale this up even more and send subsidies to our neighbouring countries, where Swedish electricity consumers will once again be involved in paying the difference between price and cost. There's nowhere at all where there's someone else to pay. It is a matter of fact that there is a certain cost of building a power plant and that there is a price charged for electricity. Just because we think we should have overproduction, so that we can keep a low price, does not mean that nobody pays the difference. Someone has to pay the difference, and it is the Swedish electricity consumers who are affected by this. They are the ones who have to bear the consequences of the subsidy schemes that have been put in place politically and of pursuing a less thought-out energy policy. In the long term, this policy threatens Sweden's competitiveness by sending subsidies to other countries in the form of cheap Swedish electricity, and it is the Swedish electricity consumers who are taking the fall. I find it hard to see that this would contribute to something else. The Swedish Democrats are not against us trading with other countries or building electric cables where there are good conditions, so that both sides can gain from it. But I find it very difficult to see that it would strengthen Swedish competitiveness or help Swedish electricity customers if we further expand the transmission capacity in order to export even more electricity cheaply and randomly remove it at a price that does not correspond to the cost.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-298	Mr President, I would like to Again, I thank Mattias Bäckström Johansson for the opportunity to try to explain this to listeners who don't come with day-to-day in these turns – it's hardly that you keep up with yourself. If we want reliable electricity in contact any day, we must, normally, have some kind of overproduction. Some days we will have a little less, other days we will have more, but the total should be on a small net surplus to be sure that we have a good electricity supply. The difference between you and me on this issue is that you want more national systems, where we stand for greater overcapacity nationally and where we also have to finance that overcapacity. If you build many countries together, you need less overproduction overall. This is good for the climate, because not all countries have the fossil-free electricity production that we have, but instead use a lot of coal in their electricity production. Connecting countries reduces climate emissions and the need for national surpluses. This means that, overall, there can be a smaller surplus of electricity generation. I have asked earlier in this debate how Mattias Bäckström Johansson intends to finance electricity generation in Sweden, because the Swedish Democrats say no to the proposals we have on more renewable electricity. I still miss that answer. We take responsibility for there to be other electricity production when the nuclear power plants in Sweden today are closed down. We are expanding renewable energy production in the electricity certification system. The Swedish Democrats have nothing that they want to come up with here. They put their trust in the market, which will build expensive nuclear power that consumers will eventually have to pay for.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-304	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Westlund says in one of her speeches that the global trend is going in the wrong direction and that it is urgent, very urgent, to reduce emissions. One of the biggest challenges we have today on the energy side is how to reduce emissions from the transport sector. With Åsa Westlund's government, emissions are increasing. This is the first time in a long time that they have done so, and this is happening with the Green Party and the Social Democrats in government. We are still waiting for the promised reforms on the transport side. We are waiting for a bonus – Malus system. We're waiting for a reduction obligation. These things should have been in place a very long time ago, and therefore emissions are also increasing. We are not getting at all the same proportion of environmental cars, we are getting a higher proportion of diesel cars and we are seeing an increase in emissions from passenger transport. All this is happening under the red-green government. In a reservation in this report, the Center Party highlights that we should set tougher targets for the transport sector. The target set in 2009, which was one of the toughest in the world at the time, has already exceeded. Then it's time to set a tougher goal! We agree on a target by 2030, but there should be a target by 2020. Therefore, I wonder, Åsa Westlund : Is the government prepared to set a sharper target, or is it satisfied with the target that exists until 2020, which we have already exceeded? Is it satisfied with the increase in emissions? Why, then, is it not possible to set a tougher target? Are you afraid you won't be able to do it?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-310	Mr President, I would like to I thank Rickard Nordin for the question. One might really think that these systems of obligation, or bonus – malus systems, should have been in place a long time ago. I believe that the government to which Rickard Nordin's party belonged twice tried to make a system for biofuels that would meet EU rules, but it failed. I am also frustrated that it takes a long time. I had hoped that this system would be in place when we took over power, but it did not. Now we're in the middle of it with those who want to put sticks in the wheel. We know that we have a challenge in convincing many. This does not apply to everyone in the EU – there are also people who want to see more renewable energy and climate smart thinking – but above all those who defend state aid rules. There, I think we should join forces and see that we have a joint effort ahead of us to convince those who need convincing in order to have a sustainable system. I hope it can go quickly, but ten years in Europe makes me a little hesitant about this. However, I believe that every effort is needed, and I think that we should take this discussion in connection with the package that has now been presented by the European Commission. MEPs, the Swedish Government and the Swedish Parliament should join forces. I am convinced that Rickard Nordin actually agrees that it is important that we cooperate on this issue. As far as the transport sector is concerned, it is worrying that emissions are increasing. As I said, we are working on a system that is able to cope with EU rules in this area. As you mentioned yourself, there is a common target in the Environmental Objectives Committee of 70% by 2030. I don't know why you didn't come up with a target for 2020 in the Environmental Objectives Committee – you probably know that better. I may think that the target discussed in your exercise sounds very low if we are to reach 70% by 2030.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-317	Mr President, I would like to Then I look forward to Åsa Westlund setting an even tougher goal by 2020 – that's what she just said. I absolutely agree that every effort is needed, but this government obviously cannot deliver. We saw in the EU's winter package, which is now coming, that it proposes a ceiling on arable biofuels of less than 4%. This would be totally fatal for the Swedish investment in a renewable vehicle fleet. That would be totally fatal. In discussions with the EU, the Swedish Government has not been able to break the myth that there is some kind of connection and competition between food and fuel production. We have arable land set aside in Sweden. We need to invest even more in this. It's up to the government to take that fight. Of course, I am also down in Brussels. But there is a big difference when, as an individual Member of Parliament, or a single Member of Parliament, I try to discuss this with the Commission, compared with whether the Prime Minister or the Minister for Energy would take that fight. This needs to be a new snus question. This needs to be given priority so high that it takes precedence over almost everything else. This issue is one of the most important if we are to manage to reverse the development, with increased emissions, that this government has obviously ensured to create. The difference was that under the alliance government we received support systems and instruments in place that reduced emissions. We tried to get even more things in place, but we didn't get it done. During this government emissions are increasing and the instruments are not in place, which is a huge difference. It does not matter how much money you spend in your budget. We are spending more money in this area because we choose to give it a different priority. But that is not what matters, but what matters is what you actually do in reality, and there this government has not delivered. I wonder, then, whether I can get a concrete message about when we get these instruments in place. Will this happen during this term of office?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-323	Mr President, I would like to It is easy to share the frustration of Rickard Nordin and the Center Party. We have not succeeded so far, and you did not succeed in the eight years you were in government. You can do it sometimes. I remember a meeting in the European Parliament where Anders Wijkman and I from the Christian Democrats together managed to get through some understanding of ethanol in Sweden, despite the resistance that exists. It is possible if you talk and convince and try to meet as many people as possible. I am convinced that you, as a government, did the best you could. I am also convinced that this government is doing the best it can, because this is a Swedish interest, so that we can use the green gold that we have in the form of the forest. It is also of interest to the whole world, so that we can get the best possible climate benefit. I welcome the fact that there are many of us who are pushing ahead on these issues. I also hope that this frustration can be turned to the right people, namely those who are the real opponents: those who exist within the European system and protect state aid rules so much that it goes beyond the climate.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-327	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the draft decision to be approved and for the reservations to be rejected. We have had a budget debate today which has been very much different from the budget. There are many important issues, but I think it may also be because the shadow budgets of the opposition parties contain major cuts and not so many proposals. We are in a transition in the energy sector that is moving very fast in the world. The development of renewable energy has gone much faster than the most optimistic thought just a few years ago. Renewable energy is now both cheaper and long-greener than the alternatives. 2016 is the first year that a Social Democratic and environmentalist budget has ruled Sweden. And a lot has happened. The target adopted by the government when the 100% renewable energy access permeates the budget that we are now discussing. For example, investment support for solar cells has increased from SEK 50 million under the previous government to now SEK 390 million per year. It is a way to meet the great interest of both households and companies to put solar cells on their roofs. The result of the government's policy is that the solar cells have increased by 60 percent. The study recently presented by the Swedish Energy Agency on a solar strategy is also the result of a mission from the government. Sweden is thus given a national strategy for the expansion of solar energy for the first time. In the budget we are discussing, the Government will raise the energy research grant by SEK 620 million during the budget period, i.e. 2017 – 2020. The government has introduced support for energy stocks that are now continuing. Energy storage is one way to increase the efficiency of the energy system and to make it easier for households to put solar cells on their roof and to store the energy that needs to be used at another time. The expansion of renewable energy also places demands on the electricity grid and on the authorities dealing with the issue. The Government is therefore strengthening the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate's funding so that the agency can work more effectively with network concessions, i.e. the process of building more electric cables. It is now a year since the government introduced the Smart Grid Forum. The main task of the Forum is to help coordinate and develop the work towards smarter electricity grids in Sweden – a way to take advantage of the opportunities of a more modern energy system. It is not the technical solutions that are lacking for the energy transition. We are now creating conditions step by step to seize opportunities such as energy storage, solar cells and smart grids. Mr President, I would like to All shadow budgets from the opposition propose cuts compared to the government's budget. Although the Centre Party has a higher amount of funding, it is because it accounts for the support for charging infrastructure in this area of expenditure rather than, as the government, under Category 21. If the Center Party's funding for charging infrastructure is excluded, the Center Party's budget is lower than the government's proposal. The government's energy budget strengthens the energy transition that is under way. Due to a lack of profitability and increased safety requirements, nuclear power owners have now decided to close four out of ten reactors by 2020. Because Sweden has had a buffer and an electricity surplus of renewable energy, it is not a major challenge that the four reactors are now closed down. We are now waiting to hear if any more reactors should be run after 2020. The energy situation we find ourselves in increases the demand that we politicians take responsibility for a plan to ensure that there is renewable energy that replaces the reactors that are shut down one by one as they grow older and unprofitable. It is good for Sweden that in June five parties agreed on a long-term energy policy. Thank you to the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats for the joint work in the Energy Agreement! We have agreed on the goal that Sweden will have 100 percent renewable electricity production in 2040. Important pieces of the puzzle to get there are the extension of the electricity certificate's system with a major effort to build an additional 18 terawatt hours by 2030, that hydropower is given better conditions and with requirements to meet modern environmental requirements. Last week the five parties presented Sweden's new goals for energy efficiency. By 2030, Sweden will have 50 percent more efficient energy use compared to 2005. Mr President, I would like to With this government, equality for the first time is part of the energy budget. The energy industry is not equal today, and that is a problem. We know from studies that women's and men's perspectives and attitudes to energy issues differ. It is therefore important that both perspectives are represented in the energy industry. In order to find the best skills, it is important that the industry succeeds in both retaining and attracting women to work in these professions. Finally, the Green Party and the Green Movement have been pushing for a target of 100% renewable energy for a long time. Several parties in the Riksdag have said that it will never work, some have said that they do not want it to work. I would like to pay a large tribute to all parties that have supported the goal so that we now have a majority in the Swedish Parliament for 100 percent renewable energy. I look forward to our energy debates in the Riksdag going forward being about how we step by step take Sweden towards the target of 100% renewable.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-343	Mr President, I would like to I find it a bit boring when both Lise Nordin and Åsa Westlund try some kind of numbers tricking to show who has the most money in the budget, because this is not a competition about who can throw out the most tax crowns. This is possibly a competition for who can make the most difference. Lise Nordin is right there. Much has happened over the past year, the first year with a red-green budget. In particular, emissions have increased. That's what matters. Emissions have increased, even though you do what you say are record investments. There you can really discuss numbers-tricking and so on. Let me get back to what is actually essential, things that make a difference. I will quote from the Green Party's website under the heading Economy and Taxation: a simple Green Party principle – taxes should be increased on what pollutes the environment and lowers on what is good for the environment and creates jobs. Yet the Green Party does just the opposite. Taxes are being increased on what is good for the environment, and taxes are being increased on jobs and entrepreneurship. That greener tax shift just turned out to be a red tax increase. We stood here last year, Lise Nordin and I, debating the solar tax introduced by the government at the time. Lise Nordin then referred to the EU. The government referred to the EU, and Lise Nordin chose to do the same. And I said, "This doesn't make any sense." Now we stand here a year later, and it turns out that the European Commission does not want to take shit for the government's solar tax. They said this is the government's own fault. And now the government is backing down. Then I wonder: why did you not ask the European Commission before introducing this tax? Why didn't you get to the bottom of these questions? Why was it so urgent to introduce this tax that we now have to back down? It is clear that it has harmed the solar industry that you first introduce a tax and then back on it. How are they supposed to know what really applies if you don't do a thorough job from the start?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-349	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by stating that solar cells have never been as simple and profitable in Sweden as it is now. Solar cells increased by 60 percent compared to last year. This is a clear result of an active policy. I can see that the Center Party has come up with a great many proposals since they came into opposition. I would like to conclude that the Center Party is the most creative and most useful in opposition. We now have the largest climate budget ever in Sweden's history. As regards the solar tax, as Rickard chooses to call it, it is an issue that was first announced in the 2013 budget of the Alliance Government, which pointed out that there is a risk that Sweden may be convicted of unlawful state aid unless Sweden regulates what applies to large-scale solar installations with electricity for self-production. It created uncertainty for all actors on the solar side. Now it is good that the government has announced the removal of this tax, which is about plants with over 250 kilowatts producing solar electricity for their own use. I have heard many industry entrepreneurs who are now very happy that it is clear what is going on, because they are unfortunately the ones who would be liable if the EU convicted Sweden. Rickard Nordin and the Center Party toss themselves with a jargon that I think is quite ludicrous and that does not benefit Sweden or give the clear information needed in the industry. At no time has the EU given any information on the state aid rules – and I have looked carefully. There was a statement in SVT's news saying that the Energy Taxation Directive was not a problem. No, because it is the state aid rules that have been grappled with. Now the government has announced that from the next half-year shift the tax will be reduced to the lowest possible level n, from about 29 øre to 0.5 øre. In addition, the government will submit a notification to the EU so that it can test what applies. The Government's ambition is to remove the tax completely and create clear conditions for continued PV expansion in Sweden.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-358	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the question remains. There was a risk according to an investigation. The Alliance government considered that it would not proceed with it because it considered that it was not a real risk. If no reply was given by the European Commission, why did they not ask? The European Union had not come to Sweden and said that we must introduce this. Why, then, was a tax imposed? Why was a proactive decision taken and this tax introduced? Moreover, it was clearly possible to withdraw it to 98%. Why didn't they do it in the first place? Why did they not find out what rules were in force and do some right from the start? It's still wrong. The entire treasure should still be removed. But if you could pull it back so much, why did you raise it so much in the first place? We've had an extension of solar power. However, in the case of large-scale installations, we have had a significantly lower expansion than we had before. Of course the sun tax has been a restraint. I am afraid and genuinely concerned about what the next step will be. What is the next area where the EU will be blamed? What is the next area where it is blamed that the EU has views on one and the other and then implements the policy that it clearly wants to implement anyway? I'm worried about the small-scale hydroelectric plants. I assume that it is possible to redeem what we agreed on in the Energy Commission. The EU is used here not least as an argument for shutting down and tearing out. My final questions will be: if there was a risk, was it not worth asking the European Commission first whether it was a problem under state aid rules? Why can we change the tax rules now, even if we have not received any new information from the EU? If so, why did they not do the right thing in the first place?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-365	Mr President, I would like to Sweden deserves a much more serious policy than to take a chance on what regulations apply. Unless the EU state aid rules have been a reality for the Swedish parliament and government to take into account, why has the Center Party not already introduced the obligation that it advocates and that the government is now investigating? I am hopeful about this work, which has been going on intensively. If the EU's state aid rules were not a problem, why did the Center Party not introduce the government obligation, which we agree we want? We must, of course, draw up regulations that will last, because if the EU convicts Sweden or another Member State, it is the companies that will be liable for repayment. Here politics has a responsibility to ensure that it makes a wise assessment. Rickard Nordin asks me why the EU was not asked. I think he knows the system so well that he knows that there is no way to ask questions to the EU and get an answer. If you submit a question for public scrutiny, a so-called notification, the EU will say yes or no. If a country is found to have made a mistake, it will be liable for repayment. That is why we need to be very careful when drawing up rules. That is why the government has announced that it will reduce the tax as much as possible, down to 0.5 cents, and that there will be a review of the issue. You make a notification. Why did the Centre Party in government not choose to submit a notification to the EU for examination of the issue, if it was that simple? It will take a while, because it always does with notifications. I hope for a positive message so that Sweden can also remove the tax on solar electricity. Let me conclude by saying that solar cells have never been as simple and profitable as they are today. It is the result of active government work, because we see solar energy as an important piece of the puzzle in reaching the target of 100% renewable energy.
i-3g9us7HNJFryiB2MJSfqZg	Mr President, I would like to The proposal before us today makes proposals for the constitutional changes needed to implement the Council directive amending directives on taxation in Swedish law. The Directive requires the competent authorities of the Member States to provide information on advance cross-border tax rulings and advance pricing rulings to the competent authorities of the other Member States and to the European Commission through automatic exchange. Some basic information must be provided to the competent authorities of all Member States, that is to say our tax authorities. The Alliance believes that the bill is essentially well balanced. The automatic exchange is important for greater transparency, which in turn allows for reduced cross-border tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition. Unfortunately, however, the legislative proposal runs the risk of having negative consequences that are difficult to understand in advance. This is something that the government also suggests in the bill. The tax system in Sweden is complex in many respects. The consequence of this is that it can lead to difficulties for taxpayers to do their own thing. Ultimately, this risks reducing confidence in the tax system as well as the willingness to pay taxes. Simplifying for taxpayers is therefore extremely important in order to maintain confidence. Simplification can include, for example, better information, smoother ways of providing data and changing hard-to-understand rules. The possibility of obtaining an advance ruling is an important issue in this respect. This possibility is intended for questions where the answer is not immediately stated in the legal text or practice. The issue of advance rulings is particularly relevant in relation to pricing issues, since the legal framework is limited and the area is therefore largely governed by international guidelines and practices. The knowledge that advance rulings may be disclosed to the authorities of other Member States is likely to lead to fewer requests for advance rulings. This risks reducing compliance with our tax legislation and reducing the legitimacy of tax rules. It is therefore of the utmost importance for the government to monitor the application of the bill in an impact assessment. It is also important that the proposal does not lead to a lack of legal certainty. This too should be followed up by the government. In this context, the Alliance wishes to emphasise that the Government has on several occasions put proposals on Parliament's table where impact assessments have had significant shortcomings or in some cases in practice been lacking. These developments are extremely worrying. The impact of a significant increase in the administrative burden on taxpayers needs to be highlighted. If this does not happen, the legitimacy of the tax system will be jeopardised in the long term. Against this background, it is important that the government monitors the legislation and returns with an impact assessment that includes how legal certainty and transparency are maintained in the application of the bill. The government should also explain in the impact assessment the extent to which the bill has affected and may affect companies' requests for advance rulings. It is incredibly strange that the majority of the committee does not accept the reservation. They themselves say in their position that they assume that the government is following the issue and, if necessary, returns with the necessary follow-up and enforcement measures. Why don't you agree with the reservation? Then we will ensure that these important issues are followed up so that it does not become more difficult for our entrepreneurs and that it is done in a legally secure and transparent way. My question to Mr Erik and others is: why do you not support the reservation? Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-389	Mr President, I would like to We are debating this report SkU10 Exchange of information on advance cross-border tax rulings and advance pricing rulings. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The proposal requires Member States' competent authorities, on their own initiative, i.e. automatically, to provide information on advance cross-border tax rulings and advance pricing rulings to other EU Member States' authorities and the European Commission. The provisions are proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2017. This is a big difference from before, when each state authority had to ask for information and perhaps also did not always know that they should ask for certain information and therefore did not. The work against tax evasion and tax evasion is one of the areas that has been highly developed, not only in Sweden but throughout Europe and in other parts of the world. Although the EU is not yet Europe, the fight against tax evasion also affects the European states outside the EU. Former European tax havens such as Switzerland, Liechtenstein and the Channel Islands are increasingly being forced under a single roof. In particular, however, I would like to highlight the role of the OECD as a backer and the OECD's joint work on this issue, BEPS, which is perhaps the clearest example of policy taking the lead and taking up the fight against the greedy forces which, for a long time, under the lack of control and control of the neo-liberal hegemony of the right-wing forces, have been working ruthlessly to escape and escape taxation. For these forces the time is now past. The policy has clearly indicated that work against tax evasion and avoidance can only be done through cooperation and cooperation. Even Europe's bourgeois leaders and government parties are involved in this and have awakened to the unfair competition that tax evasion supports. At a time when critical voices are raised against the European project and more people are questioning the usefulness of the European Union, the very joint fight against tax evasion is an excellent example of success being achieved only through coordinated work between Member States. Today's report is just one in a series of decisions in the same area that passes through this House. We have more proposals to wait in the future. These are proposals that will strengthen the democratic, social and solidarity aspects of the European project. The market can be a good servant, but it's a terrible gentleman. Competition on fair terms can be good for everyone, but competition based on various forms of cheating does not benefit anyone in the long term. The proposed amendment allows, inter alia, for an automatic exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Member States on advance cross-border rulings and advance pricing arrangements. The automatic exchange, in turn, increases transparency which helps to reduce cross-border tax evasion, aggressive tax planning and harmful tax competition within the European Union. Once again, combating tax evasion and tax evasion is a high political priority.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-398	Mr President, I would like to I certainly did not intend to ask for a reply, but then I jumped to some of the claims from Erik Ezelius. If I did not hear quite wrong, Erik Ezelius accused the right-wing liberal forces of ruthlessly plotting taxation and said that the bourgeoisie of Sweden has now finally settled on something like the Social Democratic Government. I know that the then Minister of Finance Anders Borg was involved in all this work within the OECD with BEPS and was very clear that we do not like aggressive tax planning and that tax evasion must be prevented. In what way does Erik Ezelius think that we have now suddenly joined you? After all, if we are to be completely honest, is it not true that, regardless of political colour, we do not like tax evasion?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-400	Mr President, I would like to I thank Helena Bouveng for requesting a reply so that I can ask some questions back. It is quite clear that the bourgeois parties of their rhetoricalists and tacticists have made two points to stick to when there comes a bill from the government. The first is that it is said that it is poorly prepared and the second is that it asks for an impact assessment – preferably within such a short time that it is not possible to carry it out, and then the KU can report to the Minister of Parliament. I'm asking myself questions. Has opposit ion even read the bill? The bill states: The Government therefore proposes that a new provision should be included in the Administrative Cooperation Act which specifies which information should not be provided to the Commission. The information received by the Commission shall not be used for any purpose other than to monitor the application of the Directive. Another section states: According to the Government, it is clear from DAC 3 that the intention is that only information in the summary can be excluded from the automatic exchange of information if the exchange would lead to the disclosure of business secrets or such information. The Government therefore proposes that a provision should be inserted which states that the Tax Agency should not provide information on summaries and advance rulings if this would result in a business secret or such disclosure. Is it not clear that the government is taking into account the concerns raised by the opposition? The Government's proposal also mentions that the introduction of the new provision may lead to fewer requests for advance rulings. My counter-question to the Moderates and the Opposition is: Where does the shoe squeeze? Aren't the Moderates for the work against tax evasion and tax evasion?
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-406	Mr President, I would like to I think I was quite clear when I said that I think the bill is well balanced. Yet it can be read in the bill that there are some concerns that this may de facto lead to fewer advance rulings and that legal certainty may be jeopardised. I think that's pretty important. If new legislation is introduced, we should also be able to follow up and reflect on how we can maintain the number of advance rulings so that legal certainty is maintained and business secrets are not actually disclosed. I think that is quite a reasonable position. With regard to this international tax process that we are part of, I think that Erik Ezelius agrees with me that it is incredibly complicated and incredibly technical things that we are going to go through. Several times in the Tax Committee when we have had the government there for deliberations, officials have had to go out to find out things from the questions I have asked. I'm worried. My stomach hurts because of this raging tempo. I am quite convinced that even the Ministry of Finance has difficulty keeping up with these moves. We do not really get the time we need and do not really know what the consequences are actually. I think we can agree that we need to slow down, and we need to enable both the parliament and the government to ensure that we know what decisions we are actually making.
i-bbc89a0ae61e4d8b-409	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng and I agree. This work now taking place against tax evasion and tax evasion is taking place at a very rapid pace. I am pleased that we have a Minister of Finance who will be pointing out against the other forces within the EU that one should step back and allow parliaments to have their time when they are going to examine various dossiers. Nevertheless, we will come back to this issue of impact assessment. Recently, an impact assessment from the bourgeois side was required the same year that a proposal was to be implemented. Play with the idea that during the opposition years in each job tax deduction we Social Democrats would have required an impact assessment of how pensioners, for example, would be affected or how little the job seekers increased in number in the same year. What would the government have said? It is likely that there had been strong complaints about the irresponsible policy of the opposition. It would be a good thing if the bourgeois opposition gathered together to something other than the points of speech, which were poorly prepared and without immediate impact assessment.
