i-1211a4c1104a55e5-5	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson has asked me whether I will take steps to ensure that the EU payments that should have been paid in 2015 will be paid in 2016, and whether the EU payments will not be paid out as soon as possible, how I will ensure that the farmers' liquidity and creditworthiness will not be affected by the delay in payments. I understand very well that the late payments of farmers' subsidies cause problems for farmers and I am aware of the difficulties that this poses for farmers who are affected. The difficulties encountered in the payment of aid put farmers in a serious situation, and the government is therefore actively working to speed up the payment of aid. In order for the late EU regulations to have as little impact on farmers' finances as possible, the Swedish Board of Agriculture has given priority to paying out the largest payments in terms of budget terms first, such as the single payment and the large environmental payments. The Government has proposed in the budget proposal for 2017 that the Swedish Board of Agriculture's administrative appropriations be increased by SEK 60 million per year in 2017 – 2020 to strengthen administrative resources. This is provided by the applicants by creating the preconditions for a more efficient administration by the Agency. It is important that the processing is carried out and decisions are taken on the correct basis so as not to risk that individual aid applicants are subject to recovery and Sweden to penalties for mishandling the aid. This requires IT systems for control and management. In light of the problems that have been identified, I took the initiative on 23 March 2016 to commission Statskontoret to review the Swedish Board of Agriculture's management of the introduction of the new agricultural policy. On 9 November 2016, Statskontoret submitted its report on the assignment, and its preparation is now ongoing within the Government Office. Statskontoret's report is an important basis for how the work within the Swedish Board of Agriculture can be further improved. In these contexts, too, the question is usually asked whether farmers can be compensated for payments later than usual. The answer is that there is no legal support for paying compensation to farmers who have not yet received their aid because payments are based on EU rules. Therefore, no such compensation can be paid.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-10	Mr President, I would like to I have written this interpellation about a major delay in EU payments for Sweden's farmers, because that is what I hear about from many agricultural entrepreneurs. It is not a small phenomenon, but we are talking about several thousand farmers throughout the country who have not received the compensation for 2015 to which they are entitled. Several people I have talked to say that they have spoken to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, and they have been given the go-ahead that the compensation should have come in October of this year, that is, about a month ago. Now they have received a new message: The compensation will be paid during the second half of 2017. Yes, you heard correctly – the second half of 2017! The new information on EU payments presents farmers with enormous difficulties. Due to the previous delay in payments, farmers have had to take great risks to obtain sufficient liquidity to pay bills that the 2015 compensation would finance. The fact that they are now unable to repay in due time is a very serious situation for the peasants, whose credibility before the creditors is at stake. We are talking about a lot of money that has not been paid out. For some farmers it is about hundreds of thousands of crowns. It is money that farmers have counted on but have not received. In particular, the dairy farmers are hit hardest, who are already having a very difficult financial situation. If the money is not paid out quickly, the government must take other measures to ensure that the farmers' liquidity and creditworthiness are not affected by the now excessive delay in payment.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-15	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Government a simple and straightforward question. It concerns the new addition of money to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, which is given after the unsuccessful procurement of a new IT system. Is it the new policy of the Government and the Government to give more money to the authorities and works that mismanage their procurements and, because of that, are unable to keep their budget?
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-16	Mr President, I would like to I share Magnus Oscarsson's concern for those farmers who have not yet received their support, although we should remember that relatively few have been affected by the problem. If you look at the whole programme, you can see that it is about 9 billion, i.e. 9 000 million. Of these, some 600 million remain. The vast majority has already been paid out, which is important to emphasise. I've done everything I can to get the Board of Agriculture to speed up their payments. However, there are clear reasons, which I shall come back to. When we give aid of 60 million, we must, of course, also ensure that payments are speeded up. You cannot say, as Sten Bergheden wants, that you should not give this support. Otherwise, farmers are hit even harder. The reason why I commissioned Statskontoret to highlight this was that extensive criticism has been made, and there are certainly good reasons for this criticism. The report that Statskontoret has now given us will be examined in more detail. I know that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is also working on the issue continuously to find faster systems. Since I took office, I have also had a continuous dialogue with the Swedish Board of Agriculture on this issue. I would like to emphasise that I continue to have confidence in the management of the Board of Agriculture, and I assume that the work will solve this task, which is not really small. I also don't want you to end up in the same situation again. I'll get back to what we're doing so we don't end up there again. Well, you actually have to learn from the lesson. The lesson was not done when we took office as a government. The EU took the final decision on this very complex regulatory framework in December 2013. It was something that would take effect the following day, on 1 January 2014. That's what happened. When we took office as a government and I took office as a minister on 3 October, there were 333 outstanding questions from the European Commission about the Swedish programme. Here there was an authority that did not know how to have an administrative capacity and a system to manage this complex system. This government worked extremely intensively with, among others, the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Government Office to get this in place. We managed to get it in place, with all the decisions, in May. In parallel with that trip, the Swedish Board of Agriculture was of course working to develop an IT system that can handle this. Homework wasn't done. The lesson was not done when we took office on October 3, 2014. There is reason for self-criticism, I hope, from the bourgeois side. I have taken the initiative not to happen again in 2021. Just over a year ago, an initiative was taken: now we have to start working on the next programming period and develop a system and a regulatory framework, so that farmers do not suffer from this again.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-25	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer! I think what you've done for the next programming period is good-- I shouldn't take that away from you. That's great. But for those who have been affected and are now in trouble, it is of no help. They need money now. When we discuss long delayed EU payments, it is ultimately a matter of trust and honesty. Can Sweden's farmers trust the state, or show what has happened that it is this and so with it? In his social contract with the state, the farmer has promised to make his commitments, but when the state does not honour its commitments, a crisis of credibility is created. Let us imagine for a moment that it had been the peasants instead of the state who lay after a year with their payments. What would be the tone, Mr President? We can think of another group in society, such as parents of young children who vabble, and that the Social Insurance Agency suddenly says: The benefits to which you are entitled you will have to wait for; they will come in a year and a half. That, of course, would not be possible. There would be a popular uprising, a outcry. But with the peasants it doesn't seem to be that careful. Farmers must be good and wait. It'll work out. It is not a responsible agricultural policy. My question is: Is this how farmers should be treated in Sweden? They have been promised compensation, but yet payments are postponed for the future.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-30	Mr President, the Council of Ministers. Of course, it is extremely important that our farmers receive their money on time. Of course they should. The problem is that the authority, the work, for which the Government and the Government are responsible is not doing their job. They've made a bad procurement. They've been betting on an IT system that doesn't work. They have received extremely strong criticism from Statskontoret for this. The only people who get their money on time at this point are the Swedish Board of Agriculture. You spend more money on them because you've made such a big mistake. This rests on the Government. This rests on the government. Make sure our farmers get their money on time! But those who do not behave would perhaps have some form of criticism at this point, given that they have received strong criticism from Statskontoret. It would have been nice if the Council of State here today had expressed some criticism of those who have misbehaved in this matter.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-33	Mr President, I would like to There is reason for reflection and to look at what happened. That's what I was trying to do in my first post. Sten Bergheden! The Swedish Board of Agriculture now has a system in place, despite the fact that the bourgeois government did not assume its responsibilities and made sure that the regulations, so that they could work, were in place. Now you have a system in place. There are record-sized payments made in October and November this year – such large payments have never been made before. Magnus Oscarsson asks: Can the peasants have confidence in the state? I promise that as long as I and this government have responsibility for these systems, we will do the homework on time. I have started this long before the next programming period, only for farmers to have confidence in the state. I have raised the issue with Commissioner Hogan a year and a half ago: you must start your job with the next programming period. You can't be sloppy like you did last time. It is very important that this comes into place, because it is big money for Swedish agriculture. 9 billion a year is not small money. Most of it is now paid out – we should not forget that. But it's a complex system. It is not only farmers who get out of that system. There is also 2 billion available for investment aid. It is broadband and so on around the rural programme. Then, in fact, this government has taken responsibility for the exceptional crisis that the dairy farmers put in. When I and the government took office, on October 3, 2014, there was not just a crisis in this system, where homework had not been done. It was also a milk crisis that was not handled. We've handled it. We have gone in with special money, 152 million, to the dairy companies. We now enter the second round with SEK 65 million for the dairy companies. We also started to raise the diesel tax reduction – the previous government constantly raised the tax. We doubled the support for methane reduction. It was precisely the farmers who had a difficult time. We went in with 150 million during the programming period as special money for cloven-hoof care. It also benefits the farmers mentioned by Magnus who are in a difficult situation. There are many more things that we have done. In fact, there is reason to look back. I say to you bourgeois, especially to Sten: There is probably reason for some humility. I'm humbled for the task. I haven't done everything right. However, I have tried to deal with these very special crises as quickly as I could.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-40	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Rural Development, for the debate we have had! You say most of it's paid out and most of it's got money. Yet we are talking about hundreds of thousands of crowns that many farmers have not received. It's not a small crowd. There's thousands of people who haven't got the money. We're still talking about a lot of money. In the run-up to this debate, many people have heard from them. I know there are many people sitting in front of the TV right now watching the debate. Many people expect a clear message and the Minister can say here and now: we understand the problem. We understand that many farmers are concerned. Let's figure this out. We got this. It is ultimately about honesty and being able to trust the state. Can we have such an answer?
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-43	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson calls for an understanding from me. In all the speeches I have made so far, I have said that I understand the problem in which the farmers are put, and I also feel very strongly about them. I also intend to deal with this so that it will work. I've taken a lot of initiatives about this, as I've explained. Not everything has been rooted ashore, but much has changed. It should not be repeated that a government, like the previous government, does not do the homework. It must be done in time. In 2021 it must be a table set. It must not be like when we took office in 2014, i.e. 333 outstanding questions to the Commission, when the new programme comes into place. This requires intensive work, and it takes time. However, it also requires the Agency to have the rules of the game in place and to be given a chance to create a new administrative system that can deal with the complex new system that has entered into force. This is not at all similar to the previous programming period. I'm sure there may be things that the Board of Agriculture has done wrong. I don't know the details, so I shouldn't go into it. There are certainly grounds for criticism in some paragraphs, but remember that it is politics that sets the rules of the game for our authorities so that they can act! Unfortunately, the rules of the game were not set in time, and this has caused many farmers to suffer. I hope that this will not happen again.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-49	Mr President, I would like to Anders Forsberg has asked me whether it is my position that environmental organisations, outdoor life and other organised public opinion should be given the opportunity to legally examine forest fellings and other normally accepted forestry measures and, if so, for what reasons. Sten Bergheden has asked me whether I intend to work to ensure that logging becomes subject to authorisation, whether I intend to work to reclassify forestry so that it is not considered to be of national importance, whether I intend to work to change the law so that forest fellings can be appealed to the General Administrative Court and whether I intend to work for an extension of the circle of groups and persons with rights of appeal in matters of appeal. I reply to the two interpellations in one context. I would like to begin by saying that forestry is one of Sweden's basic industries, which together with other economic activities contributes to the country's overall prosperity. Forests are a national resource to be managed in such a way that they are sustainable in producing a good yield while preserving biodiversity. Management shall also take into account other general interests, such as social and cultural values. The Government estimates that there are areas that need to be developed in both the production and the environment, also in order to contribute to the environmental quality objective of Living forests. As well as increasing protection and environmental protection, increased production of forest raw materials is important in a transition to a bio-based society and in phasing out fossil energy. Forests are of great importance both to our country and to a common sustainable future. The ongoing work on the national forest programme together with, among other things, the review of forestry legislation provides a good basis for this. The national forestry programme is one of the most prioritised work currently being carried out at the Ministry of Industry. The vision for the work is that the forest – the green gold – will contribute with jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country as well as to the development of a growing bioeconomy. ..................................................... I do not wish to comment on the questions raised by the interpellants, as they are linked to the ongoing investigation into a legal review of forestry legislation and the question of how Sweden will implement the Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters, the Aarhus Convention. Sweden has been a party to the Convention for more than ten years, which is also part of the EU legal order. As a Party to the Convention, Sweden shall ensure that the public has the right to access environmental information and the right to participate, under the conditions laid down in the Convention, in environmental decision-making processes. The Convention also contains provisions allowing the public concerned access to justice in environmental matters. Sweden is obliged to ensure that acts and omissions by persons and authorities that violate environmental legislation can be tried by a court or administrative order. The public concerned refers, inter alia, to civil society organisations promoting environmental protection. The parliament and the government are responsible for implementing conventions in Swedish law. In order to provide a basis for such an assessment of whether Sweden complies with the provisions of the Convention, this issue is part of the current legal review of forest protection legislation. It is true that the government wants to strengthen public participation, including in terms of access to justice, but of course every measure must be preceded by a careful balance between different interests and on the basis of their respective conditions. The legal review of forestry legislation includes, among other things, that the investigator must review the requirements of the Århus Convention regarding public access to justice for decisions of the Swedish Forest Board and the position not to take decisions on notifications of felling and more under Section 14 of the Forest Protection Act. If the investigator considers that the public has such a right of appeal, the investigator shall propose appropriate constitutional changes. The investigator shall also review whether there is a need to clarify the provisions on appeal in the Forest Protection Act in the light of a decision of the Supreme Administrative Court and make the proposals deemed appropriate. Finally, I would like to emphasise that sustainable forest management contributes to more jobs and sustainable growth throughout Sweden. As the responsible minister, I want to find ways to reconcile Sweden's commitment under the Aarhus Convention with competitive sustainable forestry. The investigation will now work on the issue and eventually deliver a legal basis for the government to take a position on. Until such a basis is presented, I await this issue.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-61	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his answer. Interpellation concerns an issue that has become more and more topical: the forest owners' experience of their ownership and use of the forest being increasingly taken away from them. In his reply to the Minister for Rural Development, he first stated that he did not wish to comment on the questions put by the inter-pellants. However, it is true that the government wants to strengthen public participation, including in terms of access to justice.I think that we should keep this sentence in the rest of the debate that will follow and also on the basis of what the Government will say in the future. The Minister's answer to the question of whether it is reasonable that environmental organisations, outdoor life and other organised public sectors, but also individual citizens, should be given the opportunity to try legally fully normal logging, perfectly normal forestry and other normally accepted forestry measures. Mr President, I would like to In the meantime, how has the government's work been done? You could use the term track record even if I don't like the word. Let's look at the Species Protection Regulation. 51 fellings have so far been stopped this year, according to information from Skogsstyre lsen. The area concerned is about 500 hectares. Maybe it doesn't sound so horrifying. However, if there is an average value of approximately SEK 100 000 per he ktar, it is about 500 million in logging value that has been occupied – an expression we can use – by supposed environmentalists from Swedish forest owners and then placed in some form of limbo by the state. For individual forest owners, these can be multi-million amounts and have financial consequences, use rights and property law consequences. Then there are other parts. There are logging reports. The Forest Board chooses to publish them on its website. The act is a threat to privacy. Today, the forest owner is not really in a position to decide for himself whether his logging notification should be published on the Authority's website or not. The rights of the environmental organisations were mentioned earlier. Sweden has acceded to the Aarhus Convention and must respect it. Then there are the other parts. There is the government's legal review of forestry legislation. In November 2015, a legal review was decided. The mandate includes clarifying who is responsible for fulfilling those obligations. Former investigator Charlotta Riberdahl questioned at a seminar in Almedalen last summer whether such an important resource as the forest would really be privately owned. Even if the Minister acts resolutely, it cannot be denied that there are actually similar views. There are such manifestations in other parts of the government, within the ministries and within the authorities. Today, landowners have a responsibility to fulfil their obligations under forestry legislation. The starting point must continue to be that the forest owner must have legal responsibility and control over his property. If new provisions are introduced with the possibility of appeal under forestry legislation, an abyss will be opened that we cannot see the effect of today. Normal forestry measures would then be subject to judicial review. This would lead to a new form of legal activism from environmental organisations and from individual citizens that we have not seen its like in Sweden. No particular thought is required to realise that the consequences would be insurmountable with additional costly bureaucracy, worried forest owners and the transfer from logging to thinning forests.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-71	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister – given that I did not receive an answer, and the Government stated that it is not possible to answer the questions because of ongoing investigations! I've had the question raised before with the Government. Then the Government tried to slip out of the question a little more and say that what is included in the cultural budget had to be written in but has not so great value. That could be understood. Today, in the response of the State Council and the Government, it was clearly heard that these words have a strong value. Above all, this is very strange given that the Government cannot speak on the basis of an ongoing investigation into the Aarhus Convention. However, the Government and the Government have entered in the budget the results to be achieved. The aim is to give environmental organisations and the public the opportunity to have a judicial review of whether or not an individual landowner can harvest his forest. All investigations and implementation of the Aarhus Convention have been preceded in the budget by the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government. The Minister clearly stated that the public and organisations promoting environmental protection should be able to participate in the decision-making process. But the Minister did not say a word about the organisations or the general public. The Minister is trying to hide behind the Aarhus Convention. I've found out a little bit about the Aarhus Convention. It is clear that neither the Århus Convention nor the caselaw impose any kind of clarity nor specify absolute rights of appeal for environmental organisations or the public. On the contrary, the Convention allows national adaptation in accordance with the wording of the article on the right of appeal, 9.3. This is quite serious given that the government has already mapped out the path that Sweden should take in this matter and does not follow the possibilities contained in the Aarhus Convention. This is serious because it affects so many landowners and forest owners around the country. Sweden has good forestry that provides an enormous amount of jobs, growth, work and prosperity. Going further than others on this issue, as proposed by the government and the Minister, is serious about ownership and private forestry – which is doing very well in the country. There are already extremely tough demands on forestry today. Trying to tighten up the requirements and shift responsibility from landowners to environmental organisations and the public to manage private forests is a major restriction on ownership in Sweden. I assume that the Minister will add what he referred to in the cultural budget. However, the cultural budget does not say that the issues should be taken into account, but that there should be an opportunity. Does the country's forest owners manage our forest better, or is it only environmental organisations that should manage the private forest in Sweden?
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-78	Mr President, I would like to What is in the 2017 Culture Budget was also in the 2016 budget. It links directly to the portal clause of the Aarhus Convention. It has a legal link in the EU context. I would like to ask the opposition a question. Are you not in favour of the Aarhus Convention, to which Sweden acceded ten years ago and to which all EU countries are affiliated? In any specific case, the interpretation and application of the Convention may be examined. That's why the investigation has been set up. In my reply, I said that if the investigator considers that the public has such a right of appeal, the investigator shall propose appropriate constitutional changes. That is, if the investigator deems it that way. That's the difference. Ownership is important. The government and I stand up for it. I know ownership isn't entirely restricted. As far as the forest is concerned, there is the right of public access. Isn't Sten Bergheden standing up for it? As a forest owner, I know that's the case. As owner of animals, I know it's not my right to handle animals anyway. Sten Bergheden should also know that. Right of public access is important. The basic law is important in terms of ownership – we will stand up for it – but it is not unrestricted. Are you also questioning the right of public access? How are you? Are you questioning the Aarhus Convention? Leave answers to the questions! The forest is important for Sweden to handle our welfare building. It represents 127 billion in export revenue each year. There are employment and peripheral effects of 200 000 in the forest industry. But we also have the legal obligations, and we have to deal with them properly to ensure that we do not make any mistakes. The fact that you in the opposition are trying to scare and speculate on this is not a good thing, because this is such an important industry. I'm sorry for your actions. It was the Center Party that after two years found this text in the cultural budget, and now Moderates and Swedish Democrats are running after the Center Party and trying to scare up the country's forest owners. My message to the country's forest owners is this: you don't have to worry. This government works very seriously with the national forest programme and is very aware that the forest has historically contributed a very large part to building prosperity in Sweden. From being one of Europe's poorest countries at the beginning of the 20th century, we have become one of Europe's richest countries because we have had extensive forestry, and we shall safeguard that.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-86	Mr President, I would like to This is undeniably interesting. Let me quote again: is it true that the government wants to strengthen public participation, including in terms of access to justice? First of all, we need to discuss the Aarhus Convention. That is something that our party has been highlighting for years, and I have no problem representing our party in that part. We believe that the rights of the environmental organisations and their interpretation in Sweden are preposterous. There are frightening examples, things that have happened in the past and are still happening, of the hunting of wolves. Facebook groups with unclear member relationships can appeal hunting decisions. Is this the kind of development we want with regard to forestry? You don't have to think very far to also start thinking about this with the Swedish Forest Board publishing logging notifications and how easy it will be to appeal logging decisions. You don't even need to be concerned – you can live in Malmö suburbs and appeal a logging decision in Haparanda. As I said, there is a great danger here. The possibility of testing each felling as a permit case under the environmental code would also involve costly environmental impact assessments and more. Even if the forest owner were to be granted permission to kill, individual citizens or the legitimate environmental organisations could appeal the permit to a court. In addition, given the principles of environmental law, forest owners could have to bear the procedural costs of their counterparts. Is that reasonable? For many forest owners who appreciate the natural values that come with the forest land, the primary driving force may not be to earn money, but the ownership itself, long-term ownership and long-term farming. How am I supposed to look at my ownership if I don't know whether I or my children or grandchildren will even be allowed to harvest the forest that I have built up? This is incredibly important. It's about more than money. It is about the principles of ownership that shape our society. It is about the right of disposal, and it is about the right of use. That is something that cannot be pointed out enough. Then there is the relationship between the public, between private individuals, and those who own and use the forest. I know very well that a lot of people are talking about their forest. You're out picking berries in your forest. You're out picking mushrooms in your forest. But there's someone who's shaped this. Someone owns it, someone owns the resources. Someone has built this up, and that is something that I think we need to emphasise. This isn't about undermining public access. It is about clarifying what the right of public access is really about, and it is about saving the right of public access. Looking at the autumn budget, as Mr Sten pointed out earlier, we can see that there is a sneaking in on wordings on nature conservation work, access to environmental information, participation in decision-making processes and access to justice. This is exceptionally doubtful. Is everyone supposed to be entitled to this? Here the government and indirectly its authorities and other actors have responsibilities that must be weighed against each other. It is responsibility that forest owners today do not feel that the state is taking, and it is therefore extremely important that the Minister for Rural Development should put his foot down and show respect for property rights.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I understand very well that the Government wants to talk about very different things in this House from what we are actually interpelling about. I understand that very well. In view of the response the Government has given to this issue, forest owners have become even more concerned. What was previously a text that could be interpreted has now been clarified by the Government: It is serious to implement the Aarhus Convention and go further in this part than it actually requires. That's what's serious about it. Here the government has completely surrendered to the policy of the Green Party. They move away forest owners and landowners and let environmental organisations and the general public go in and control and set up with Swedish forest owners and their forest land. We have about 60 000 scraps or commission reports every year. Now the government is opening the door for this to be tested by the public. One should be able to go in and try: Are you going to be able to build a forest road where you want to? You want those plantings? Are you going to have those care measures? You want those fellings? It's serious. It is mistrust of Swedish forestry industry. The Minister is happy to speak well about our forestry industry and how important it is, but in his policy the government goes further than the Aarhus Convention. My question to the Government, to which he is pleased to note and answer, is this: Is the Government prepared to go further than the competitor countries in implementing the Aarhus Convention, or should we be on the same commitments as the other countries in that part? Is he prepared to go further? That's what he's implying in the cultural budget. Our forests have built up the wealth of this country. Now the weak government is prepared to discuss a transfer of control from forest owners to the public and stakeholder organisations. Who will stand for the legal proceedings that then occur? Should the environmental organisation have support to drive a process towards an individual landowner, who in turn has to pay for its own process in order to cope with the situation? These are the questions that the Minister and the government need to have answers to when they enter and write in a budget that they are prepared to allow the public and environmental organisations to decide over private forest land. And you go far beyond what the Aarhus Convention requires. They are prepared to sacrifice Swedish forestry, Swedish jobs, on the altar of the Green Party. It's serious, and it's supposed to have criticism. It's supposed to have serious criticism. It's an insult to go after the landowners around the country. They are doing this well, and I have full confidence that they will continue to do this very well in the future. If the Minister has not already done so, I think it is a good thing that he goes out into the woods and looks at all the measures that are already being carried out out out there and at the logging companies and others who have put in even more things to manage the forest in a good way. These are green forestry plans, blue driving licences and other things. This should be studied by the Minister. Answer the question! Is the government prepared to go further than the Aarhus Convention?
i-RYYDe3N2ZJagZikKBSi1EE	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sten Bergheden and Anders Forsberg, for the interpellation debate and thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, for the answers! Without a doubt, Swedish forestry is something that is and has been extremely important for Swedish prosperity. Swedish forestry is also extremely keen to continue to have a very good reputation. In order for Swedish forest products to be sold out in Europe, it is important that certifications, Swedish and European legislation and conventions are complied with. Sten Bergheden said that there are about 60 000 logging reports every year, and this year as a forest owner I have also made such a notification. There are a few who have been stopped. In more than fifty cases, the Swedish Forest Board has considered either that the notification was made at the wrong time or that the forest owner has made wrong fellings in border zones and so on. A number were stopped in 2015– I may be wrong in the year – due to the Species Protection Regulation. The Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have requested that the government look at this, which is now being done. But what is undoubtedly most important is the good reputation that Swedish forestry has and that we can sell. Today, a citizen of Sweden can appeal against everything. It is for the courts to decide whether to bring the matter before them. It can be decided that a cycle path will be built. It is possible to appeal whether to build a road or start a mine, whether or not to have water rights – in all different areas. If Anders Forsberg and Sten Bergheden own each cycle, Mr President, and want to ride on the m, they must comply with Swedish legislation. What's the deal? No, I can't ride a bike to a one-way street; it's not working. I have the right to repaint my bike, but then I may have to use the right colors, which are environmentally approved. The same applies to forest owners. Most people manage their forests in a fantastic way. Forest owners have contributed to Swedish prosperity and will continue to do so. In the transition to a fossil-free society in the future, forests will be crucial for success. If the rest of the world realises that Sweden does not comply with the conventions we have signed, this will be hindered. Swedish forestry will then be blacklisted. That's when the danger comes in. It is you, Anders Forsberg from the Swedish Democrats and Sten Bergheden from the Moderates, who are now inciting everyone to believe that Swedish forestry is something other than that. Swedish forestry is world-class in many different areas. Let it go on like that. But as a citizen of Sweden you have rights. It is the courts that choose or do not choose to lift an appeal, in whatever area it may be.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-108	Mr President, I would like to I think it is unfortunate that Members of Parliament are speculating and running scare propaganda. The investigator is supposed to look at what's in the Aarhus Convention. What is there, and how will this type of issue be dealt with in connection with the convention we have concluded on behalf of Sweden? Then Sten Bergheden says that Sweden goes much further than the Aarhus Convention. But that's what the investigator's gonna be looking at. You, Sten Bergheden, say we go further before you look at it. If you're so sure it doesn't say this in the Aarhus Convention, at least you shouldn't be worried about this. We'll see what the investigator finds out; neither I nor you know that. In addition, Sten Bergheden stands, before we have any results of the investigation, as a Member of Parliament here, speculating on 60 000 legal proceedings and scaring people. I must nevertheless say to Anders Forsberg that he is honest, because the Swedish Democrats say that they do not stand for the Aarhus Convention. It's honest. Then, on account of your speech, you can consider whether you do not represent the right of public access. Would you like to restrict it? And Sten Bergheden – where do the Moderates stand when it comes to the Aarhus Convention?
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-111	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very interesting debate. We will come back to this. We have a problem here. If we had not had this problem or if the issue had not been raised, we would not have stood here and debated it. This is a real concern and a danger and one that is actually real. I myself am a forest owner, and I can very well understand the feeling that you are exposed. Once again, the government wants to strengthen public participation in access to justice. There is scope for interpretation here. Whatever the good ambitions the Minister for Rural Development may have, that is the concern you feel. I have a friend who's usually accused of conspiratorial. He talked about this years ago. Perhaps you could dismiss him then, but now you can see that what he said a few years ago is becoming more and more true today. You can see authorities moving their positions forward. You can see how authorities act on the basis of their ideological beliefs, rather than acting as authorities. We see how the Forest Board blames the government and says that they only carry out what they have been commissioned. And we see how the government in turn blames the Forest Board or other officials. As long as we have a forestry policy, the Minister, it must respect property rights and the right to farm land. If this is not done, I believe that the whole construction of society is at risk of being lost.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-115	Mr President, I would like to I still did not get an answer to one of my questions: does the Minister and the government think that today's forest owners and landowners do not manage their forests without having to tighten up this further? Even Isak From came here to confirm that there are already opportunities for people to appeal. But the Minister anticipates the implementation of the Aarhus Convention and says that we should enter this. We're gonna take care of this and make sure they get into the system. This means that we are prepared to encourage this legal process. We have already met the minimum requirements of the Aarhus Convention with its existence, but the government is prepared to go further. You are prepared to go so far that you even run over your own investigation and implementation and write into the budget that it should be in this way. That is what the Minister and the Government might not have done; the discussion that should have been held on this should have been anticipated. We have also received confirmation from the Minister today that they fully support that letter and intend to move forward. They say I'm speculating on 60,000 cases. What does the Minister know about the number of appeals? Who pays for this in the legal system? You are busy sorting out the wolf problems you have created with the legal system you have put in place. Now you are prepared to allow environmental organisations and the general public to decide over private forest owners and their logging of forests. Isak From talked mostly about bicycles here. After all, it is not part of this interpellation debate, so I leave it there. Nevertheless, I would like to inform the Swedish people that this government has folded itself to the Green Party and blames the Aarhus Convention for squeezing forest owners in Sweden and providing greater opportunities for organisations and the public to decide on Swedish forests. That's not good.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-121	Mr President, I would like to What can I say? The interpellants Anders Forsberg and Sten Bergheden are most concerned about something that is obvious in a legal society, namely that you have the right to have your case tried, that you have the right to receive information and that you as a citizen have the right to be involved. There are a few cases that have been appealed – two three cases dealing with bomb walls and two three cases dealing with lichens. That is why, among other things, this government has set up an investigation to find out if there is something we need to do to create order. This government inherited a predator problem that caused a total legal breakdown. In fact, this government has created order and steered the legal processes, and now one can once again have faith in how hunting for our predators is handled. If this happens as Sten Bergheden believes, that every felling around the country will be appealed, it will of course have enormous consequences. Of course, this government will then ensure that order is established. If I sell my forest to an entrepreneur who destroys my land, who owes it? Is it me as the landowner, the contractor or the buyer who is guilty? Mr President, I would like to In order to strengthen ownership, it is extremely important that this investigation should be carried out, so that we can clarify the ambiguities that actually exist for Swedish forestry and for the welfare of the future.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-127	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to the Moderate Sten Bergheden it feels like he's inspired by Donald Trump. It's about black painting and trying to impose other things that they haven't said – mere lying. Sten Bergheden, don't start trumping here in Sweden too! I am, in fact, preoccupied with this kind of debate. We have acceded to international conventions. How to deal with them in this specific case is investigated. As Isak From has just said, several other things are being handled by this investigation. We have equal goals in Sweden when it comes to forests, and we have had it for a long time – production targets and environmental objectives. We are world class, just as Isak From said, when it comes to managing the forest. There is no country that is better than Sweden at managing the forest. We were the first in the world with our own forestry law in 1903. No one was ahead of us. When we fell a tree, we plant at least two new ones and sometimes three or four. We have a forest supply that in 70 years has increased from 1.7 billion cubics to over 3 billion cubics today. It's a huge journey we've made. We all have the opportunity to manage forest production in a good way and with environmental considerations. We also have every opportunity to transform our society into one of the world's first bio-based economies – a smart new bio-based economy – and become the world's first country to actually escape fossil fuel. But we are not getting away from that if we have the kind of debate that Sten Bergheten in particular is trying to conduct. Then it will not be constructive.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-130	Mr President, I would like to Hannah Bergstedt has asked the High School Minister Anna Ekström what she intends to do to ensure that all students receive a norm critical sex and cohabitation education. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. According to the curricula for primary and secondary schools, the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual and equality between men and women are some of the values that the school is to convey and anchor. Questions about sexuality, gender equality and relationships and responsibility are also included in several of the comprehensive school's curricula and the upper secondary school's subject plans. It is the teachers who will realize the values of the curriculum in their teaching. Therefore, teacher training should be of high quality and generate professional teachers who are well equipped for their important mission. We must have the courage to trust the teachers if we are to build a strong and equal school of knowledge. In addition, we must create good conditions for the work of teachers. Today, many teachers bear too much administrative burden. They cannot therefore devote themselves sufficiently to what they and we want, namely their educational mission. As far as the content of teacher education is concerned, I would like to stress that no one does not detail what a particular education should contain in addition to the objectives of the Higher Education Regulation (1993:100). For example, for a basic teacher degree, the student must demonstrate the knowledge and ability required to work independently as a basic teacher in the activities to which the programme relates. The degree scheme contains comprehensive wordings on issues related to values, such as gender equality and human rights. Specific knowledge content, such as sex and cohabitation, should be included in the existing degree descriptions. Having said that, I would like to emphasise that issues of equality and equal opportunities for women and men to have the same power to shape society and their own lives is a priority for the government in terms of gender equality policy. Here the school has a very important role. Therefore, the Government has commissioned the National School Administration to develop and implement national school development programmes to develop the work on the school's core values, such as the work against discrimination and insulting treatment, as well as gender equality and norm criticism. The Swedish National Agency for Education offers support material on sex and cohabitation education for different grades and stages. The Government also intends to commission the State's school inspection to review sex and cohabitation education in schools. The government has therefore taken a number of initiatives, and in addition to them, I am open to other ideas and suggestions on how we can continue to work on these issues. Swedish teachers can and want to take responsibility for meeting the curriculum's goals in terms of gender and sexuality norms that prevent children and young people from having power over their own lives and to reach their full potential in school and life.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-138	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. In recent years we have read quite a lot about high-profile sexual offences and sexual harassment in the media. And there are forces in our society that want to suggest that this is something new. Unfortunately, too many of us can testify that this is not the case, and today many are actually testifying to it. It is something that has happened through a change of standards, not least by making it clear in social media that those who are vulnerable are not alone in their experiences. But there is still a very stereotypical picture of the sexuality of men and women, and it affects us throughout our lives. It also affects us when it comes to how we view responsibility for sex and sexuality. I think the most classic thing is that love starts with fights and ends with child support, which one can joke about. But I think many people recognize this. Guys get to learn that they have the right to use girls' private rooms, and we as women learn to accept it. At the same time, young guys also learn that they are expected to have more interest in sex and that it is never okay to say no. Thankfully, this changes, but it is about standards. And for a standard change to happen, something has to happen. Recent statistics from Brå show that most cases of sexual harassment occur in the group between 16 and 24 years. Daily, 46 sexual crimes against women are reported, most of whom are men. Amnesty looked in a study at attitudes towards sexual crimes and abuse, and it turned out that women's responsibility increases when they drink alcohol and are exposed to sexual crimes – but that men's responsibility decreases if they expose someone and have drunk. This idea is about stereotypical starting points in the view of girls' and women's sexuality and that it only exists in relation to the fact that men want to or do not want to. As you know, it is very difficult to legislate on standards, and I do not believe that we will succeed without doing anything. Long-term work is needed to get to standards and values, and then school becomes incredibly important in this context. We already know that access to norm-critical sex education varies greatly in the country and that the difference in quality in teaching is very large. In 1999, on behalf of the then Social Democratic Government, the Swedish Agency for School Development carried out an evaluation that revealed major quality deficiencies and shortcomings in equivalence. Now, as I said, what is to be evaluated again. It's of course very good, but if we already know that norms and values affect our actions in society – and see that it creates problems – the question is how we get to it. For me, the answer is simple: it is about more and better education. The Government's mission to the Swedish Agency for Education to develop and implement national school development programmes to develop the work with the school's core values is very good, and it is welcome. But we also see that sex education is not always part of this but falls outside. Gender and discrimination issues are covered.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-147	Mr President, I would like to I thank Hannah Bergstedt for her very initiated question. I would like to emphasise that I share this view. One of the major challenges we have in Swedish schools today is precisely the lack of equivalence. That is why several, not least the School Commission, are now working on what the management chain should look like so that we can guarantee equivalence. For me as Minister of Higher Education, it is also important that teacher education keeps an equivalence so that we can guarantee that it is a good education for all teacher students regardless of which university they go to. We have also taken several steps in this regard. At the same time, it is important to ensure that education is such that it equips for a future career that will last for many, many years. One should know that teacher education is the most detailed education we have and that this work certainly fits within the degree goals we have set up. As I said, the programme will also prepare you to be able to work as a teacher on the basis of the curriculum and subject plans available at school. Having said that, however, it is important that we follow up on the fact that this is also the case and that it is equal throughout the country. Therefore, I think that the task that should now be given to the Swedish School Inspectorate to follow up how the teaching is done is a step on the way to show that this is something that the government takes seriously. We intend to take action should it turn out to be flawed. In the same way, we will make an evaluation of the entire teacher training to see what quality it holds and whether there is equivalence. It is also possible for the government to follow up on individual parts of teacher education if we consider it very urgent. I think it is important to ensure that we have both confidence and confidence in this, while the government feels a responsibility to emphasise equivalence. With the initiatives we have taken, I think we have laid a good foundation for this. Then we may have to come back to further action.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-152	Mr President, I would like to The Minister stresses the role of teachers and their conditions, and I share that view. The evaluation carried out in 1999 is, in fact, right for the Minister. There the principals in particular spoke of their desire for more of their teachers to have sex education as part of their education. This is based on the view that the quality of sex education depends very much on the individual teacher's knowledge and commitment to the issue. The study thus emphasizes the teacher's competence and that it is central to getting a proper sex education that is norm critical. Norms and values change, and they are changed by knowledge. For example, in my generation – where many today are actually teachers – we learned at school that the hymen existed. Today we know that this is not true. What I mean is that what we learn in school is in the spinal cord, and if I become a teacher, that knowledge goes with me. It takes quite a lot for you to change, and in it is basically knowledge. This is why it is not only about teachers having knowledge when they come to school, but also about continuing education. A lot is happening in this area. There are still very few teachers who have studied any course related to this subject. In fact, only teachers in grades four to six have this in their teacher training. About 6 percent of all teachers have studied a course related to sex education. For example, if you look at the various universities that have teacher education, you can see that the availability of courses linked to norm-critical sex education varies quite well. We may agree that the role of the teacher is important for the quality of sex education and equivalence, and at the same time we are aware that very few have this as part of the education. The curriculum is designed to include this not only in a specific subject but in several. I understand that this is something that is already very controlled, but my question is: What other possibilities do the Minister and the government see that we have to provide students with knowledge of norm-critical sex education by giving teachers that knowledge in their luggage when they meet our students?
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-157	Mr President, I would like to I thank Hannah Bergstedt once again. As I said earlier, I see that it is very important that we can offer both high-quality and continuing training. Just as Hannah Bergstedt says, knowledge increases all the time, and things change over time as we gain an increased knowledge of how to work with, for example, norm criticism. Therefore, it is also important not to consider yourself as a teacher on the basis of a qualification from teacher training, but to see that support and opportunities for further training and further training are also offered. It is a heavy responsibility for employers to ensure that everyone gets that opportunity, but one measure we have taken is to commission the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop and implement, within the framework of the national school development programmes, a plan for developing the work on the school's core values. These include issues such as discrimination, abusive treatment, equality and norm criticism. As mentioned above, support materials for sex and cohabitation education are also offered for different grades and stages. An important part is to give teachers more time for teaching. It's not just about time with the students, it's also about having time to plan, implement and follow up their teaching. One should also have time for what teachers today do not have time for in the Swedish school, i.e. collegial learning – actually to discuss with each other in order to develop their own teaching. I believe that this is not least an important part, in other words that when you have completed the training or the further education you also have the opportunity to discuss it with your colleagues. Time and space should be given to it. As I said, we all need to practice this with prejudice, how we express ourselves and how we do this in the best way with children of different ages. It is about fulfilling what is in the curriculum and the subject plan, that is to say, giving all children the tools and tools they need to be able to be full citizens of society but also free in their lives. In this, too, is to counteract mental illness, which we see increasing among children. We know that it mainly affects children who, during their teens, discover that they have a different sexual orientation, a different gender expression or a different gender identity. Therefore, it is important to have a good and open school environment where all children can enjoy and express themselves. It is important that there is good knowledge within the school in this regard. There is a heavy responsibility on school leaders and principals to ensure that you have a good school environment that is open to everyone.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-163	Mr President, I would like to Now that we see this problem, we share our views on it and recognise the shortcomings created by lack of norm criticism, we must also take responsibility for this change to take place. Nothing happens, as you know, of itself. I have very high expectations of a feminist government. The measures taken in the area of criminal law, for example, are important for women to dare to report sexual offences. However, this substance is much more complex. It is basically about how we should reduce the number of abuse. When it comes to such a subject – which is much more difficult to legislate on – the subject is given much less space in the debate, although we know that it would be best if this never happened and women were never exposed in the way that is happening today. That is why it is all the more important that we have a serious and serious discussion about what we can do and that we are doing everything we can. We've been evaluating, we've been looking and we've identified problems. But I stood in this Chamber two years ago, when the minister was called Jan Björklund, and little has happened since then. Therefore, my demands and expectations for a government that calls itself feminist are that more action should be taken. Evaluations are good, and the task of implementing the national school development programme is good, but it must also be ensured that sex education is part of this part. This is my contribution to the Minister and the Government: take this issue seriously! If we're going to solve this in the long run, this is where we're going to start.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-168	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your help and your expectations for a feminist government. I think Hannah Bergstedt is absolutely right to have high expectations of a government that is feminist and that has equality policy and anti-discrimination policy very high on its agenda. As I said, we are taking action. However, as Minister of State, I am – together with my colleagues at the Ministry of Education – open because we need to do more. It is just as Hannah Bergstedt says: this is the foundation of the future society that we want and that we strive for. It is a society in which the equal value of all human beings is absolutely inviolable. It is also a society in which girls and boys, regardless of gender identity or expression, can live a free life without fear of violence or threats of various kinds. Much of the foundation is laid already during school time as regards how we can train ourselves in these matters. The changes always start with us adults, not least with those who work in school. However, this also applies to us parents and politicians, who are role models for how the conversation in society works. I will listen attentively to the proposals made by Hannah Bergstedt and by the Parliament to see if there are further things we can do to ensure that we have a school based on an equal foundation and where the quality of sex and cohabitation education is high.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-172	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me whether I intend to work towards introducing a requirement for a written agreement in the case of telephone sales and the introduction of a reverse Nix register. The Government's ambition is that there should be a strong and well-functioning protection for consumers. Telephone sales are a problem area, which has been highlighted by the government. At the government's initiative, the Consumer Ombudsman has recently been given strengthened sanctions to tackle misleading marketing practices. Consequently, since 1 October this year, it has been possible for the Consumer Ombudsman, in the event of a penalty payment, to order a company engaged in, for example, misleading telephone sales to stop doing so immediately. Under the previous scheme, the Consumer Ombudsman had to go to court to bring about a ban if the company did not voluntarily accept the injunction. Furthermore, the Swedish Consumer Agency has an ongoing discussion with the association Nix-Telephone regarding a possible tightening up of the exceptions in the regulations that allow calls for sales purposes even though a person has blocked their number in the Nix register. The government is closely monitoring the progress of this discussion. However, the problems of telephone sales mean that more measures may be needed. In this context, it is important to achieve a good balance between the interests of consumers and businesses. The report "Enhanced consumer protection in telephone sales" proposes, among other things, a requirement for the consumer to accept the offer in writing when selling telephones on the initiative of the trader. There is no proposal for a reverse Nix register, which would mean that consumers would have to accept in advance to be called by telephone vendors. The report has been referred to and many consultation bodies have made comments. The report is currently being prepared in the Government Office, and I cannot anticipate that process. The government will come back to this issue.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-178	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply to my interpellation on better consumer protection in telephone sales. It is gratifying that the Government has a high level of ambition in terms of consumer protection and that the Minister sees that sales by telephone are a problem area. It is also very good that the Consumer Ombudsman has recently been given strengthened sanctions to deal with misleading marketing practices. However, I am afraid that these measures are not sufficient. It is almost a year and a half since the presentation of the report 'Enhanced consumer protection in telephone sales'. But so far, too little has happened in this area. Most telephone vendors are serious, which I really want to emphasise. Unfortunately, however, there is growing dissatisfaction among consumers when it comes to telephone sales. That is why there should be a great deal of interest from the industry as well in dealing with misleading sellers. In recent years, the number of problems that arise in connection with telephone sales has increased, according to the Swedish Consumer Agency, municipal consumer advisors and Sweden's Consumers. It is about everything from strong irritation at being disturbed to pure fraud. According to the Consumer Guides Association, consumer guides around Sweden receive daily calls about telephone sales where the consumer thinks he is being cheated. The picture that emerges is that the number of consumers affected by aggressive, intrusive and surreptitious sellers is increasing. The study shows that there are consumer groups that are particularly vulnerable to telephone sales, such as some elderly people, people who do not fully master the Swedish language and people with different disabilities. Overall, the study assesses that measures need to be taken to strengthen consumer protection. A central part of today's consumer problems concerns uncertainties regarding contracts concluded by telephone. Therefore, the investigation proposes to legislate on requirements for written contracts in the case of telephone sales. Sweden has long had relatively little legal protection for consumers in telephone sales compared to comparable countries in Europe, including our Nordic neighbours and Germany. Today's technology enables different forms of digital solutions, such as e-identification or electronic signature, to facilitate the approval of an agreement. Such a solution should also be of interest to the industry. As far as the Nix register is concerned - that is, the right not to be called up - it is a problem that this works badly. Therefore, instead, a reverse Nix register should be introduced, that is to say, consumers wishing to receive direct mail and sales by telephone should report it to the register. The consumer then makes an active choice in order to be called up for marketing purposes.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-187	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Lotta Johnsson Fornarve for the fact that this interpellation has come to Parliament's table. It raises a very important issue, so I really appreciate the commitment. I share the view that this is an extremely problematic market. I think there are many of us who have been disturbed by telephone vendors who have called at inappropriate times and who sometimes can be very stubborn and do not really want to take a clear no. This is a problem for consumers. But it is also, as I see it, a problem for the industry. Dissatisfaction with this sales channel is growing, and if there is no order for this, the industry risks cutting off the branch on which it sits and making consumers more and more distance themselves from this sales channel. We now see, for example, a clear tendency for people to no longer have fixed telephone subscriptions but only use mobile phones. A contributing factor to this, I think, can be precisely that one feels that there is less risk of being called by phone vendors. We have had a solid effort to counteract these tendencies. The Nix register is also an example of this. It gives the opportunity to put yourself on a list where you request not to be called by phone vendors. Now there are problems with that register; it is not comprehensive. Consumers are sometimes called even though they said yes on the list. A dialogue is therefore ongoing between the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Nix register to try to close those holes. It is a job that I very much encourage. I very much hope that they will come up with a good solution so that loopholes disappear, because we, as consumers, should be able to trust that when we have clearly declared that we do not want to be called up, it should actually be respected. This is a general problem for this industry, and there are many complaints. Some actors really stand out and get a lot of complaints. However, there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with this channel at all, and we must take that very seriously. Then, of course, there are extra shocking examples, as we have seen, of individual companies focusing on calling retirement homes to get hold of older consumers who feel that they are more able to convince. We have seen examples of selling behaviour that are directly unacceptable, where we simply do not accept that the consumer says: I can't stand to stand here anymore. Yet they continue their sales work. This is an area in which we simply need to find measures to tackle the problems. I think there is reason for the industry to engage in self-criticism. The Swedish Consumer Agency has conducted surveys where consumers have been asked about their attitude towards telephone sales. In this year's survey, 1 per cent of consumers are in favour of being contacted by phone vendors from companies where they are not already customers. 1% means that 99 percent don't actually think it's a good channel. That should be, I think, cause for concern on the part of the industry. A majority of consumers, 58 per cent, feel that it is easy to be misled or deceived by telephone sellers. These are figures that I think give reason to really reflect on how we can create a better function for this market. There the investigation is a very good basis that we are now taking on. Many comments have been received from consultation bodies. We must now try to take these into account. There is now an intensive preparation at the Government Office. I am optimistic and believe that we will be able to provide information about a not too long time, because it is important here that we simply get a better order.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-197	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the response to my interpellation! I am pleased that the Minister shares my view that this is a major problem, both for consumers and for the market, that something must be done, that you are now working on various forms of action and that the Minister sees the investigation as a good basis for further work. Telephone sales are a controversial selling method that continues to cause major problems for a large number of people. Many consumers find it difficult to defend themselves against the often intrusive telephone vendors. It is particularly difficult for the vulnerable groups we mentioned earlier: elderly people, people with disabilities and people who do not fully master the language. But it can be hard enough for anyone to defend themselves. I think we've all been hit by stubborn phone vendors at some point in our lives. There are many examples of how consumers have been tricked in connection with telephone sales: Suddenly there was an invoice. I thought I didn't agree to anything. I said no to an ad. But they said they had a recording. I didn't even realize they were recording. These are two voices of really a variety of voices. There are also examples of people with dementia being tricked into entering into agreements. Nor is it unusual for phone vendors to fake telephone recordings. A major problem is that customers do not perceive that they have entered into an agreement at all and who they have entered into an agreement with. The right of withdrawal is often invoked as a sufficient level of consumer protection. However, many who call the country's consumer advisors have not understood which company has contacted them at all. And if you don't get any papers from the company within the 14 days of the right of withdrawal, you have lost your chance to repent. It is also common for companies not to provide accurate information about the right of withdrawal itself. For the past 16 months, there has been an investigation proposal that could solve one of the main problems, that consumers agree to agreements that they do not understand. It is therefore high time, I think, to introduce written confirmation in connection with telephone sales, which I think should be completely self-evident. In this way, consumer protection would be strengthened, something that is very much awaited by many consumers. Here Sweden has unfortunately fallen behind a little. I would like to emphasise once again that most companies have a responsible approach to consumers, which is why an unregulated market may have worked so far. However, in recent years we have seen a sharp increase in consumers who feel cheated by contracts signed through telephone sales. The industry has stated that a written agreement would entail large additional costs and additional work. But today's technology enables different forms of digital solutions, such as e-identification or electronic signature, to facilitate the approval of an agreement. The industry should be interested in such a solution. I believe that, against this background, it would not entail such a high cost to the industry, but that would mean the disappearance of rogue companies, which would benefit the serious companies. It is also good that the Swedish Consumer Agency has an ongoing discussion with the Association Nix-Telephone regarding a possible tightening up of the exceptions in the regulations that allow calls for sales purposes, even though a person has blocked their number in the Nix register. However, the best thing would probably be from a consumer's point of view to choose whether or not to be called up, and I think the study to which the Minister refers shows this.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-207	Mr President, I would like to As I said, these are urgent issues to deal with. We must try to achieve a better functioning market. We have an investigation that has now put forward its proposals. It was quite obvious even when the investigation came that there were divergent views on the part of the industry. The industry considered that there were other options. These are, of course, such issues that we now have to weigh against each other. The investigator clearly proposed a written requirement. This would allow you as a consumer to have a reflection period, a second chance to think about the offer, see if it is an offer that you find interesting and can compare it with other options to get a better basis to stand on when making your decisions. I can share Lotta Johnsson Fornarve's view that there are now modern methods to use for a written requirement, so that it works effectively and without long lead times. We can use both text messages and e-mails as well as other electronic means of communication. There are also identification options that can be used. It was this that was the main proposal from the investigation and that we are now preparing further within the Reger-ingskansliet. A proposal was also to instruct the Swedish Consumer Agency to hold a dialogue with business representatives on the Nix rules. The Consumer Agency has already taken it further and there is now such a dialogue, which I welcome. They also said that they think that the Swedish Consumer Agency should be given the task of working to ensure that the information about Nix is made easily accessible. I am convinced that the Swedish Consumer Agency is also working on this so that it becomes clear to consumers how that system can be used. Furthermore, it was suggested that the sanction system should be reviewed, and as I said, the government has already dealt with it. Since 1 October, we have given the Consumer Ombudsman the opportunity to impose a ban without the trader's approval. On the other hand, the investigation did not consider it a good idea to introduce prior consent requirements in order to be dialed – what is usually called opt-in – when marketing on the phone. The reason why the investigation landed there was that it was felt that it was for intervention in the contractual possibilities and that it would simply make the phone inaccessible as a marketing channel altogether. We will have to analyse this in connection with preparing these questions, but that is what the investigation clearly came up with. The investigation also suggested that no legal obligation for traders to record sales calls should be imposed. It was noted that this is already being done to a large extent but that it is not sufficient as an alternative to written requirements. The investigation came to a clear conclusion that written requirements are preferable because they give the consumer a second chance of reflection. Of course, we have to deal with the often complex issues that arise in terms of lawmaking and regulation of areas, and these are many complex issues. We are also trying to gain experience from other countries, which have introduced slightly different systems and have different boundaries in their legislation. Of course, we are looking at how other countries have solved this problem because similar conditions apply in many countries, and then we can learn from those countries that have already taken action. The government absolutely sees the need to improve the functioning of this market. We are working as quickly as we can to achieve better regulation and better protection for consumers in the field of telephone sales. It is an important and high priority area.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-218	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for a good debate. I look forward to strengthening consumer protection in connection with telephone sales. A lot of time has been lost, with far too many fooled consumers as a result. It is now urgent to reach a decision on proposals for written confirmation. Something else would be to betray the consumers who are at risk of harm in the future, not least older people with disabilities and those with limited knowledge of Swedish. Let us consumers decide for ourselves whether or not we want to be called by a telephone salesman and introduce a reverse Nix register. These are my letters to the minister. Thank you for the debate.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-222	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Johnsson for the debate. It is good that these issues are raised and kept up to date. All sales channels shall operate in the best interests of the consumer. We consumers should be satisfied when we are reached by marketing messages no matter what channel it is in. It is clear that there are extra major problems in telephone sales – problems that do not exist in other channels. When surveys tell us that only 1% of consumers want to be called by telephone vendors and are in favour of this, it is a warning bell. It is already calling the Government Office and Parliament and should also call the private market to ensure that action is needed here. We are working intensively on this. We have a good investigation that has come up with constructive proposals. The preparation is ongoing, and we weigh the various difficulties that often arise in introducing different types of regulation. I am positive and confident that we will come up with a well-functioning regulation that will make this market work better in the future. Maintaining a market that is not working well and where consumers are clearly being squeezed is not an acceptable option, but an improvement is needed here. The government will take action, but I hope that the industry also works actively to clean up this market so that it works for the benefit of consumers rather than risking economics and customer satisfaction. This is an important area for change.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-228	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me whether I intend to act in order for the AP funds to withdraw their investments in Siemens and Enel and in future not to invest in companies operating in the Occupied Western Sahara. Furthermore, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve wonders whether I intend to encourage Swedish companies to neither invest nor operate in the occupied Western Sahara. The AP funds are governed by the Act(2000:192) on general pension funds, AP funds, and it is the Board of the respective AP fund that is responsible for the management of the fund funds and the fund's operations. The Act on General Pension Funds states that the AP Funds shall take environmental and ethical considerations into account in their investment activities, without prejudice to the overall objective of high returns. The Government is responsible for appointing board members of the funds and for evaluating the management of the funds annually in the letter submitted to the Riksdag. The Government cannot and must not therefore have views on individual investment or management decisions taken by the AP Funds. As with other government authorities, the Funds shall comply with applicable legislation and practices. In this context, however, it should be noted that the AP Funds, through their Ethics Council, conduct dialogues with foreign companies that can be linked to violations of the international conventions that Sweden has ratified. Therefore, I assume that in this case, too, the AP funds have acted in line with their ethical commitments. As far as Swedish companies are concerned, I assume that they comply with relevant legislation and assume their responsibility for sustainable development.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-233	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply to my interpellation on the investment of the AP funds in the occupied Western Sahara. Western Sahara has been occupied by Morocco for more than 40 years. It is an occupation which the International Court of Justice in The Hague has judged to be illegal. For 25 years, the UN Security Council has been trying to implement a decolonisation plan for Western Sahara. It was accepted in 1991 by both the Polisario Front and Morocco and includes a referendum. But Morocco has so far succeeded in stalling and sabotaging the process. It is a disaster that the outside world has allowed the occupation to continue for so long. Morocco has systematically plundered the occupied Western Sahara of natural resources – completely against international law because they do not benefit the Sahrawi people. Western Sahara has one of the richest phosphate resources in the world. The large energy-sucking phosphate mine Bou Craa is then run by the Moroccan state. The fish factories in El-Aaiún-Aaiún and Dakhla as well as the huge greenhouses outside Dakhla are also very energy-intensive. The profits from these Sahrawi natural resources and products end up in Moroccan pockets. In 2002, the then Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations on Legal Affairs, Hans Corell, stated that the extraction of natural resources from Western Sahara is contrary to international law as long as they do not benefit the Sahrawi people or take place with their consent. Morocco, which hosted the UN climate conference this year, is promoting its projects in the field of green energy without mentioning their implementation in the occupied area. Two out of five planned wind farms will be built in Morocco's illegally occupied Western Sahara. It is wind power that Morocco will mainly use to run the phosphate factory and continue its looting of Western Sahara's natural resources. A new report from Western Sahara Resource Watch shows that 22 wind turbines previously built by the German company Siemens have contributed 95% of the energy needed for the extraction of non-renewable minerals from Western Sahara, mainly phosphate. German Siemens and Italian Enel are the foreign companies that are most involved in wind energy production in the occupied area. The Swedish Fourth and Seventh Swedish National Pension Funds have shares in these companies. Foreign companies contribute to the consolidation of Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara and the plundering of its natural resources by the Sahrawi people. It is serious that Swedish pension money is involved in financing crimes against international law. Moreover, foreign companies' investment in the occupied Western Sahara helps to prevent the UN process of a free Western Sahara from being resolved. Swedish pension money should not finance the exploitation of Western Sahara's natural resources. The government cannot remain passive on this issue but should urge the AP funds and other Swedish investors not to invest in infrastructure or other activities in occupied territory, as has already been done in Norway and Denmark.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-243	Mr President, I would like to It is important to clarify how the Swedish pension system works before discussing the substance of this interpellation debate. We have a long-established structure for how Swedish pension funds are to be managed. The AP funds, the buffer funds in the pension system, are managed in accordance with legislation. It is the legislation that governs their activities and not the government through direct influence on investments. The legislation also lays down criteria for the environment and ethics and that environmental and ethical considerations should be taken into account in investment decisions. It also says that it should not conflict with the yield requirement. In modern management it does not turn out to be a conflict, but on the contrary, we see that investments in what is sustainable and leads to, for example, reduced climate impact are also profitable. It is gratifying that there is support to act even more forcefully to reduce our sustainability problems both socially and environmentally. The government has had a high ambition to ensure that there is strong support for the AP funds in continuing to pursue an even more active focus in the future to safeguard both social and environmental sustainability. That is why we produced a new proposal on the governance of the AP funds. Unfortunately, there was no agreement on the proposal in the Pensions Group. The proposal would have meant that we would have significantly increased the level of ambition in terms of sustainability in management and, among other things, demanded that pension funds make responsible investments. For a long time, work has been going on within the AP fund structure, where they have worked with sustainability problems in a way that is quite groundbreaking and where Sweden and the Swedish AP funds have in many cases been forerunners for the international markets. For example, there has been a collaboration in the Ethical Council, where they have conducted a dialogue and looked jointly at what conventions Sweden has supported and how questions about investments can be handled, so that it is not invested in companies that violate the conventions that Sweden has supported. In the Ethical Council there is also a dialogue with foreign companies that can be linked to violations of international conventions that Sweden has supported. It seeks, on the one hand, to get companies to address problems and, on the other hand, to ensure that companies adopt preventive policies and processes to prevent future violations of such conventions. Direct dialogue with companies is used as a tool to bring about change, but it also works by interacting with other investors and presenting shareholder proposals at general meetings to put extra pressure behind their ability to influence. It is also possible to act through the media to engage in a higher level of dialogue. If the dialogue does not lead to the desired change in the companies, the Ethical Council can, as a last resort, recommend the AP funds to exclude the company. There are ongoing processes that try to deal with these kinds of issues. I assume that there will also be dialogue on them. With regard to Western Sahara, the Ethical Council has focused its analysis on companies that can be linked in various ways to the extraction of mineral resources from Western Sahara. The aim of the Ethical Council's dialogues is to get the companies either to cease extraction or purchase of mineral resources from Western Sahara or to demonstrate that the extraction or purchases are carried out in accordance with the interests and wishes of the Sahrawi population in line with the UN 2002 statement on the situation in Western Sahara.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-256	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is clearly something that has not worked when two of our AP funds – our pension money – have shares in companies that have investments in occupied areas and thus contribute to breaking international law. I recently visited the Sahrawi refugee camps in the Sahara desert in southern Algeria, where the majority of the Sahrawi population were forced to flee because of the Moroccan occupation. For 40 years we have been waiting for the promised process of decolonisation to begin. More and more people are feeling a great frustration, and especially the younger ones are talking about taking up the armed struggle again. The world around us can prevent such a development by ensuring that the peace process takes off seriously. Now that Sweden becomes a member of the UN Security Council, it is important to act vigorously so that a date can be set for when the referendum can take place. We can also send clear signals that we stand up for international law and do not accept the plundering of Western Sahara's natural resources. Here the government has a responsibility, I mean, to be clear about the rules of the AP funds. It cannot be that the government does not act when Swedish AP funds, through their shareholding in infrastructure on occupied land, contribute to the plundering of Western Sahara's natural resources. The Ethical Council, which is a co-operation body for the AP funds on ethical issues, calls for not investing in Western Sahara, as the Minister mentioned. The Ethical Council writes this in its policy document: a) The aim of the Ethical Council's dialogues is to get companies to stop the extraction or purchase of mineral resources from Western Sahara, or to demonstrate that the extraction or purchase of mineral resources is carried out in accordance with the interests and wishes of the Sahrawi population, in line with the UN's 2002 opinion on the situation in Western Sahara. ..................................................... It is clear that the AP funds are in breach of their own ethical rules when they own shares in the German company Siemens and the Italian company Enel, which supply the phosphate industry with energy so that Morocco can continue to extract the white gold and stop the profits in the Moroccan State's pockets. The fact that the Fourth and Seventh AP Fund has shares in infrastructure in the occupied Western Sahara shows that it is not enough to hope that Swedish investors will comply with the international conventions that Sweden has signed and assume their responsibility for international law. It is clear that the Swedish Government must become much clearer in terms of investments linked to international law. The least the government can do is to urge all Swedish shareholders, including the AP funds, not to invest in infrastructure or other activities in occupied territory, just as has already been done in our neighbouring countries Norway and Denmark. This cannot be an impossibility. I think we owe this to the Sahrawi people.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-265	Mr President, I would like to The government is, of course, active in the situation in Western Sahara. The Swedish Government fully supports the UN Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Western Sahara, Christopher Ross, and his efforts to find a fair, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that gives the people of Western Sahara self-determination in accordance with the principles decided by the UN Security Council. The government has also clarified its vision and commitment by reviewing Western Sahara policy, which came in January this year. It will intensify support for the UN process in order to seek ways to strengthen the UN in this context, to demonstrate continued strong commitment to international law, to increase humanitarian aid, to engage in high-level contacts between the parties and to promote dialogue between them in order to bring about a political solution. It is a work that is incredibly important and which Sweden obviously has with us now that we are taking place in the Security Council as chairman. As far as the AP funds are concerned, I think that the structure that we have established for a long time, where legislation governs the activities of the AP funds, is good. It provides long-term clarity and ensures that we do not get a management that is thrown back and forth depending on the issues involved, but where we work long-term and structured to reduce sustainability problems in the administration. I note that there is active work going on in which the Ethical Council is conducting a dialogue with the companies in order to try to deal with the problems in the best way possible. What is clearly unethical is not to act at all on environmental and human rights issues. We are calling in the legislation for action to be taken. This is done by conducting dialogues with foreign companies that can be linked to violations of the international conventions that Sweden has endorsed. We see that a position has been taken. For example, the Seventh AP Fund has blacklisted companies that have engaged in phosphate extraction, with regard to human rights. It is an effective way of trying to influence companies, through dialogue and other measures, to cease extraction or purchase, for example, of mineral resources. This can strengthen the work of the UN and enable it to achieve the goals set by the UN in protecting the principles of international law for the interests of the Sahrawi people. These are important issues. I am convinced that those managers who take sustainability considerations very seriously, and who are forerunners, will prove to be the ones who show the best returns and profitability for their customers, in this case the Swedish pensioners. We clearly see that those parts of the AP funds where sustainability considerations have been taken into account and raised these issues most also have investments that are going really well. In modern society and the modern world we have now, sustainability issues will only become more important and increasingly crucial to the success of the Funds. We constantly address this in our dialogue with the AP funds and their boards and point to the importance of being ambitious, having far-reaching work and being at the forefront of being active in management and taking sustainability issues very seriously.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. It is good that Sweden has a strong commitment to the UN – we will have an even stronger commitment now that we become members of the Security Council, to find a solution to the Western Sahara issue and try to strengthen international law in various ways – and that the Minister considers this work to be extremely important. Of course it is. Nevertheless, I believe that we need to be clearer in terms of international law and investment. We cannot look at how Swedish pension money continues to fund crimes against international law. Moreover, foreign companies' investment in the occupied Western Sahara helps to prevent the UN process of a free Western Sahara from being resolved. The Minister says that they want to strengthen the dialogue and work through dialogue. I think that's good. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether, in this dialogue, he could envisage calling on the Swedish AP funds to stop investing in infrastructure or other activities in occupied areas, as has been done in Denmark, for example. Is the Minister prepared to take such an initiative?
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-278	Mr President, I would like to We conduct a continuous dialogue and follow-up of AP funds' activities. We also report the activities in a letter to the Riksdag every year, which also describes how environmental and ethical issues are taken into account. What we are clear about with regard to the AP funds is that these are issues that are extremely important for both the Swedish parliament and the Swedish government. These are issues that must be raised high on the agenda and guided by the investment decisions taken. On the other hand, we are not in and outlaw investment in specific activities. We control the activities of the AP Funds at a more comprehensive level where we both demand that they take account of the environment and ethics, as stated in the legislation, and require them to support the conventions that Sweden has endorsed. They must therefore respect the conventions that exist with regard to human rights, for example. It is also this that guides the AP funds as they now in their work in the Ethical Council through dialogue and also through other measures raise these issues and try to get the companies to act preventively. The dialogue aims, on the one hand, to deal with the problems that have already arisen reactively and, on the other hand, to lead to proactive work. It is important to ensure that companies work proactively and through various industry and investor initiatives to increase transparency, act more responsibly and address the important issues that exist in the ethical and environmental fields. This is a work that the government has placed great emphasis on in the discussions with the AP Funds Board and that we continue to work with continuously. We believe that this is important partly for Sweden's voice in the world, partly, and not least, so that the return to us as pensioners in the future will be as good as we want. If sustainability issues are not taken into account, I and the government are convinced that there will also be lower returns in the future. That is something we do not want to contribute to.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-282	Mr President, I would like to Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me whether I intend to take any initiatives on quotas to organisations other than stock exchange boards and whether I see any other basis for quotas to company boards than just gender. The Government wants to increase gender equality throughout society, and an even distribution of power and influence is one of the government's interim objectives for gender equality policy. Equal decision-making gives companies diversity that can increase their competitiveness. In order to drive progress, the Government has stated that at least 40 per cent of the board members of equity companies and state-owned limited companies must be of each gender. A memorandum containing legislative proposals of this nature has been referred to. In the memo, it is assessed that several reasons suggest limiting a statutory gender balance requirement to equity companies. These companies have been at the centre of the general debate. It is primarily in these companies that citizens, as indirect shareholders through the pension system, can be said to have particularly strong reasons to make demands for a gender balance in the composition of the board. Furthermore, it is these companies that are covered by the gender balance objectives of the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (K oden). The state-owned companies are proposed to be regulated in the light of the fact that there should be no doubt that the state as owner has at least as high ambitions as equity companies in terms of equality on the boards. The memorandum states that it should be examined whether the corresponding requirements should also be introduced for municipal companies. Against this background, I do not intend to take any initiatives on quotas involving other organisations. According to the State-owned companies' ownership policy, the composition of each board shall be such as to achieve a balance over and above gender in terms of background, area of competence and experience. The composition shall also take into account diversity aspects such as ethnic and cultural background. The selection of members is made on the basis of a broad recruitment base in order to take advantage of the expertise of both women and men as well as people with different backgrounds and experiences. The same applies to share market companies according to K oden. I do not see any other basis for legal requirements on the composition of the Board on issues other than gender distribution, but I do expect that the business community also continues to work to achieve diversity in the boards and management of the companies, thereby increasing the competitiveness of the companies.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-287	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In September, the government presented its proposal to legislate on quotas to the boards of stock exchange companies. The government wants to fine those companies that do not meet the requirement of at least 40% women or men by 2019. Mr President, I would like to I am a staunch opponent of quotas. A person, I mean, is more than his sex, his skin color or, for that matter, his age. Legislation on quotas to company boards reduces women, among other things, to being representatives of their gender and nothing else. It also runs the risk of suspecting every woman's skills. But, Mr President, it is just as bad that the government is engaged in symbolic politics instead of solving real problems in women's everyday lives. Mr President, I would like to I can accept that the Government and I disagree on quotas for company boards, although I deeply regret that. On the other hand, it is more difficult to accept the hypocrisy of the State Council and the Government when it comes to who should comply with quota rules. For example, it wants to exempt trade unions and other organisations from the same requirements. Why the double standards? Does the Government not consider that Karl-Petter-Petter, Torbjörn, Johan, Jonas, Magnus, PerPer-Olof, Anders, Tobias, Hans-Olof-Olof, Jan, Jan, Mikael, Matts or Lars on LO's board also need more female colleagues? Could it be that the Government actually realise that the proposal is not only a gross deviation from people's being regarded as equal, but also a major interference in the right of each company and organisation to appoint its own board of directors? Could it be that one simply does not want to stir up feelings in the trade union movement? The government wants to introduce an obligation for workers' organisations to strive for gender balance. The Government of Damberg therefore wants to talk to the trade unions but fine the companies. It hardly strengthens Sweden's competitiveness at a time when new jobs need to grow. In the response from the Government, I hear, among other things, that the stock exchange companies have been at the centre of the public debate and that they therefore want to focus on them. Greater symbolic policy must be sought, Mr President. I would therefore like to ask the Government again: why is it more important to safeguard the self-determination of trade unions than that of stock exchange companies?
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-292	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, interpellant, for the debate on equal boards. I will begin by putting it this way: if you are convinced that you are opposed to the issue, you will be quite lonely because, within the framework of K oden, the companies themselves should have formulated an objective of equal boards. They believe that more equal boards, i.e. a balanced balance between men and women, mean better board work and therefore more profitability. If you are opposed to this idea, I understand why you never want to take any steps forward on this issue. I also note that Jessica Rosencrantz is quite alone in the principled approach. Even her former Minister of Finance opened up a quota because it takes so long on this issue. This is not, of course, a debate that has taken place for some year, but it has taken a long time before change has been achieved. We said then that we would evaluate the situation after the spring part-session and then present legislation, as we have done. The second question is whether it is just symbolic politics or whether equality also starts from above in the economic and political elite and power. I believe that this is an important part of changing a society. Political decisions often have to be based on a perspective where you start at the top with those who have the most power and influence in the national economy. Just take the comparison with the state companies, because the question was where there are other ways. I think the state-owned companies are an interesting example of Sweden having managed to take precedence over many other countries in this area, and it went quite quickly. In 2000, the then Social Democratic government chose to set a goal of achieving equal boards in the state corporations. There was a discussion about it: Is it possible? Is it going too fast? Is it possible to find that skill? In three years they moved from a situation of approximately 30% female participation in state-owned companies to 40%. Today we have a gender balance in principle. This term of office I have focused on bringing up the proportion of women presidents of state-owned companies. Now we are almost at the fifty-fifty also among female presidents of state-owned companies while stock exchange companies are at somewhere around 6%. I think we will look back at this time and think about how we could be so old-fashioned in Sweden that we did not take advantage of society's full expertise when we appointed boards in government and municipal operations and also in the private stock exchange companies. Then I will come back to the discussion on the private stock exchange's own objectives. The code has been formulated as achieving a gender balance on company boards, defined by at least 40 per cent. Is it a wrong objective for K oden and stock exchange companies to achieve gender balance? I think Jessica Rosencrantz is quite alone in not seeing that this is a problem today and that we have to do something about it.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-299	Mr President, I would like to I am the foremost prior speaker for gender equality, but statutory quotas are not gender equality. We have a relatively equal parliament if you look around the world and compare with other countries, and hopefully soon we also have a female prime minister. We have achieved this without quotas. I would like to return to the second question that I put to the Government, that is, whether there are other groups that the Government wants to quota to the companies' boards such as foreign born and persons with a different sexual orientation and so on. The answer was no, if I understood correctly, and I think that is rather significant. If quotas are drawn to a head, it becomes absurd, because we are more than our group, and I do not think that any of us – women or men, Swedish-born or foreign-born – want different laws depending on which group we belong to. I would like the Government to draw attention to countries that have introduced quotas. Of course you can talk about that it is nice to start from the top, but the question is not what is nice or ugly, but the question is what has an effect. If you look at, for example, the Norwegian legislation, you can see that gender equality did not at all trickle down as was the intention of the quota law there. We saw that companies changed company form in order to escape the regulatory requirements. We saw how quite few women sat with large numbers of missions to meet the requirements of the law. The broad equality did not seep down. I will not steal the next topic of debate on impact assessments, but one might wonder whether there has been a thorough impact assessment of what this symbolic policy would lead to in practice. I am the first, Mr President, to want to work towards greater equality. But I think we need to start from below by making it easier for both women and men to start businesses. One should be able to live on one's wages. It'll pay to be educated. Women, who, to a greater extent than men, use security systems, should be able to feel that they also apply to entrepreneurs and not only to those who are employed. It needs to be easier to combine family and career, and one should, for example, be able to start a company in the welfare sector without being afraid that this government beats away your legs. One should be able to establish an activity in the RUT sector where many women are active. In the area by area, the government is turning its back on real gender equality reforms, and then, Mr President, I wonder. Not only does the government put forward symbolic policies that have no effect, but it is also working actively towards those reforms that could lead to something good. We also see today that there is a compilation in today's industry of various referrals that have come in linked to this, but the companies covered by the legislation have not been asked how they view it. In spite of this, we have been able to see answers from them, but also from trade unions who, on both sides, question the effect of this kind of symbolic legislation. Funny enough, to return to my first speech, LO is very much in favour of the legislation – and they will not be affected. But the fact is that Saco, TCO and several business representatives are deeply sceptical about whether this is the right way to go. Perhaps the Government can respond to how it intends to achieve real equality and if it has any other proposals than only quota laws. And what about the fact that there is strong criticism in the consultation round that has now been carried out?
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-308	Mr President, I would like to First of all, representation is not symbolic policy. Representation is an important part of gender equality policy in order to achieve results. This has been demonstrated in politics and in political parties, and it has had an effect. We see it in many other activities there, when you start at the top and achieve more equality, the entire organization is affected. We can once again take the example of state-owned companies. When we achieved equal boards, we also got more equal management teams, and we also got more equal recruitments of CEOs. So it was connected, at least in the case of state-owned companies, and stock exchange companies have said that they are striving to create more equal organisations and more equal boards. However, it has been said for a very long time. I noted that in the run-up to the election campaign, several Moderates said: As it takes so long, we are prepared to consider quotas in order to move forward. Jessica Rosencrantz is obviously not one of them. I think that we should at some point move from words to deeds. With regard to the overall issue of gender equality policy, it can be noted that the Moderates have hardly ever been on the right side of any major gender equality policy reform. Whether we are talking about voting rights, special taxation, the introduction of preschools, the major pension struggles in Swedish politics or more in the present day the issue of father months for a more equal take-up of parental insurance, the Moderates have for some reason always been on the side where they say: We are in favour of gender equality, but now it is going too fast and we are not going to take a step forward in this area right now. It is no coincidence that Sweden is one of the countries with the most equality in the world. This is because we have dared to move forward and bring about change with politics. Unfortunately, the Moderates have ended up on the wrong side. This is not just about these issues, it is also about something as concrete as the state budget. If we look at the budgets you laid down during eight years of government and make stacks over which ones were favored by them – men or women – we see that there is a common feature for the bourgeois budgets, and that was that men always benefited more than women. Now we've turned it around. This government is pursuing a policy of gender equality, and this means that when evaluating the stacks it is women who benefit from the government's budget because we have a genuine interest in greater equality. We understand that the market does not automatically lead to equality, but must also have political decisions that drive progress forward. Unfortunately, I believe that the Moderates will end up on the wrong side many times on those issues. I can regret that, but I am not surprised that the Moderates are on the wrong side on this issue too. I think representation is an important part. I have said several times before that, as Minister for Enterprise, I would much rather the business community had been able to make these decisions themselves in order to achieve the objective they have had for a long time. At some point, however, progress must also be made at work, and it is not impossible to achieve equal governance. In particular, state-owned companies have shown that they can do so in a fairly short time, and more companies can do so, including those on the stock exchange.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-315	Mr President, I would like to That's a lot of nice words. I would like to have a history lesson by Minister Damberg on another occasion, perhaps over a cup of coffee. But we are here and now and are going to talk about what we are going to do to increase gender equality in Sweden today. I am pleased with many of the reforms carried out by the Alliance during our time in power. At first, we made it easier for women and men to live on their wages. For example, we made the security of women entrepreneurs a little greater. Women entrepreneurs who are unable to work because of pregnancy are now covered by maternity benefit, just like the employee. When we talk about the big issues, I would also like to say that I am very pleased that there is now the opportunity for women to start and run businesses in those areas of society where women are most active, such as the welfare sector. The government wants to limit that possibility. I am also pleased that the RUT sector has been able to grow, even though the government is now doing what it can to counter this trend. Mr President, I would like to I believe, as I said, that we must hold the debate on equality at that very level. What brings sound values from below? What concrete political reforms can we achieve to get more women into their careers, to train themselves and to take management positions? The government can say whatever he wants. However, few women and men feel that the discussion about stock exchange boards is relevant to them in everyday life. Let us spend less time on quota legislation in this House! Instead, let us talk about real reforms to increase equality! If the path to proper measures were quotas, the Government would be no stranger to quotas on grounds other than equality. But that is precisely symbolic policy, and that is why this debate is being held. As a woman, as a politician and as a citizen of this country, I find it boring.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-322	Mr President, I would like to Again, I think you should be careful to say that representation is about symbolic politics. It is about equal rights and opportunities in society. If women's skills had been exploited in a normal way, we would not have had the situation that we have in society today. It is not in that way that women have trained more than men in the last year alone. Women have been doing this for decades, but they have still not got the top positions in society that we are used to men having. It is clear that political decisions are needed to make progress, including representation in important economic positions in society. If we go back to society, very many important issues right now are about the pay and influence of ordinary working women. That's where the Moderates end up on the wrong side again. This applies, among other things, to parental insurance. We know it's the most cementing part. It forces women to lose career opportunities and puts them in a worse position in the labour market. And it affects both their wage development and their future pension. We also have the discussion on salary mapping. We now want to force more companies to account for the distribution of wages, so that a more balanced distribution of wages can be achieved in the workplace. These are just two examples of major reforms where the Moderates again fall on the wrong side of the gender equality debate. Structured work is needed to increase gender equality. Unfortunately, the Moderates often blame it for being local, a little later and elsewhere. Sweden had not been the world's most equal country with such a policy.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-328	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me what measures I have taken to ensure that the results will be significantly better in terms of the quality of impact assessments at the next review by the Rule Council. Jörgen Warborn has also asked whether these measures are sufficient for an acceptable proportion of the impact assessments to be approved. The quality of impact assessments needs to be improved. A well-conducted impact assessment contributes to a better decision-making basis for regulators. A good basis for decision-making increases the conditions for creating effective rules, allowing companies to engage in the running and development of their business and not in unnecessary administration. In the long run, it is expected to lead to increased growth and employment. We now have the necessary conditions in place to change and improve the quality of impact assessments. The Council has been permanent, given a clearer mandate and a new organisational form with close links to the Swedish Agency for Growth. It calls for efficient use of resources and clarity vis-à-vis regulators. The Swedish Agency for Growth works widely to provide all regulators with advice, support and training in the impact assessment work. The fact that the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Council of Ministers are now working closer together also provides an opportunity to put in concrete support measures where the need is greatest. In the regulation on impact assessment in regulatory matters, the Swedish Agency for Growth, together with the Swedish Financial Control Agency, is responsible for methodological development, advice and education. The Government also reviews the governance of the Swedish Agency for Growth with regard to the work on impact assessments in order to increase quality and sees it as an urgent issue that there are adequate basis for decisions. I have a good dialogue with the Chairman of the Governing Council and the Management of the Swedish Agency for Growth. My intention is to do what I can to reverse this trend.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-332	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. This debate is about impact assessments. But in a broader perspective it is really a question of the business environment in Sweden. I think the Minister and I have the same feeling that it is worth having a really good business environment. If the regulatory burden can be kept at the minimum level, entrepreneurs can focus on their core business. The Council has some kind of watchdog position in the process of reviewing the impact assessments that investigators present to the Government and which are then referred to the Council. Firstly, in the debate, I would like to highlight some good things in the Minister's reply. There are some things I agree with. First of all, I am pleased that the Minister and the Government believe that the quality of impact assessments needs to be improved. That is indeed the case. I hope that we can work together to ensure that this is the case. The Minister also says that a good basis for decision-making increases the conditions for creating appropriate rules. That too is very good. Another good thing is for the Minister to say that, in the long run, it is expected to lead to increased growth and employment. I agree with that, too. The problem is that according to the Rule Council's letter, which compiled all impact assessments for 2015, only 36% were acceptable. A majority of the impact assessments were therefore not acceptable. There will of course be a problem when we make decisions where the impact assessments are part of the basis. We need to know the impact of the decision on companies. If the investigations are not good enough, we do not know how this will affect companies. In the worst case scenario, the rules may become more complicated than we thought and we do not get the desired increase in growth and employment. That is why I want to raise this debate so that we can ensure that we can work to improve levels. I am concerned that the Minister's response refers to the organisational change of the Council of Ministers, which has now been incorporated into the Swedish Agency for Growth. I am rather hesitant that this will solve the problem. It is possible that it can solve some. But I am doubtful that it will resolve the whole issue. 36 percent means that a very large proportion of the impact assessments are not okay. I simply do not believe that an organisational change is sufficient. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it is the only measure. Will you now sit passively, have your arms crossed and wait for it, as a result of the impact assessment, hopefully to get better? Or is there something more concrete that the government intends to do? I think that concrete measures are reflected in the Minister's response. He says, among other things, that the Swedish Agency for Growth and the Council of Ministers are now working closer together and that it also provides an opportunity to put in concrete support measures where the need is greatest. At least there he approaches the word concretely. But then I'd like to know where the need is at its greatest. Does the Minister mean that they want to take action in some particular department? Or are we talking about special types of intervention? In such cases, I wonder who. My final question is: can I find out a little more specifically what the government intends to do in this area?
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-344	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the interpellation. It's important. Now I chose to focus very much on the impact assessments in my answer, but it is clear that the question wider than that. It is a matter of general conditions, of how to respond and of how to provide information. That's a lot of what takes a lot of time for companies. It is a question of applying the rules that actually exist today. I'm not going to get too tedious, but I think there are huge opportunities to work with digitization to make it easier for entrepreneurs. This applies to government contacts so that you only have to submit one task once to the authorities. When the authorities then have that task, they can share it among themselves. The government, together with SKL, has tried to sort out the situation for restaurant entrepreneurs. It is perhaps one of the most regulated and state-of-the-art industries, where many different permits and data are required. Information is sent to municipal authorities and eight out of ten permits are issued by them. The state is an actor, but the public is made up of many parts. The government works with SKL. The goal is for half of all restaurant entrepreneurs to be able to start and partly run their businesses digitally as early as 2017. It will be an examination of the rules that exist, of how to do in the right order so as not to make mistakes, make it easier for the individual entrepreneur and make it easier for the authorities to talk to each other. In addition, such requirements, which are not relevant that we have on entrepreneurs, should be sorted out. Why should 290 municipalities make up their own lists of what should be submitted when you want an alcohol permit? It's not relevant and not very effective. This isn't the only thing we're working on. One can only say that such a low figure of the number approved by the Rule Council is not good. Then let's think about what's broken. One thing that has broken is that you may have only seen the Rule Council as a watchdog, while you have missed the connection between the watchdog and how different authorities implem enter and work specifically to formulate proposals for new rules. This is the connection that we are trying to achieve, from the Council's experience-based knowledge of this to the Swedish Agency for Growth, which is the supporting authority for all authorities working to develop legislation or rules that can have an effect on entrepreneurship. It is clear that there are some industries that are heavier than others, but different proposals have different effects on the problem. The most important thing is to carry out an early impact assessment to see whether the proposal has a great deal of bearing on entrepreneurship or not. Many proposals have little bearing on entrepreneurship, and then these proposals should be sorted out, so that time and effort are not devoted to those issues. You should do really good impact assessments in those areas where it has a great impact. The Swedish Agency for Growth, together with the Council of Directors, can help build smarter systems, often digital, so that it will be right from the start.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-350	Mr President, I would like to Last week I was in a debate in this House on the concept of real estate in VAT legislation. But in reality, that debate was about the implications of that bill. It was not a bill for which the Minister was responsible, but nevertheless it was not possible to see what consequences the bill will have for entrepreneurs. That is why it was a unanimous tax committee that supported an announcement to the government that there will be a follow-up in a year's time or so of how this has come to an end. The government parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party also took part in that announcement. It would be interesting to hear whether the Minister thinks it is good that the Social Democrats in Parliament support an announcement to the government. In fact, it would be much better to have a good impact assessment from the start. Then we wouldn't have made the announcement. I hope now that we will have broad support for the follow-up movements that we will be writing about the impact assessments, so that Parliament reacts with force on these issues. In a motion, we from the Moderates have proposed a number of measures to address the problem. I would like Mikael Damberg's comment on these proposals. First of all, we would like to ask the Swedish Agency for Growth to step up the training that is carried out for regulators in order to improve the knowledge-based conditions for establishing impact assessments that are of good quality. Secondly, we want the government to strengthen the governance of committees and other investigative work in order for there to be better impact assessments. That's the foundation, because when it comes to the Council, it's usually too late. It is the committees and the investigators who must have the right knowledge for this. Then we also believe that the government should ensure that investigators put a special focus on better analysis of the impact of constitutional proposals on companies' costs and competitive conditions. It is a little in line with what the Minister for Economic Affairs approached, i.e. that the right types of impact assessments should be prioritised. I would like to have a small comment on intensifying education, strengthening the governance of investigative work and putting a special focus on company costs and competitive conditions.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-357	Mr President, I would like to I have to admit I haven't read that motion, but I'm definitely going home and doing it. Generally speaking, the Government has a humble view that the Riksdag always makes wise decisions, even when you don't think like the government. We act on behalf of Parliament. When it comes to the Swedish Agency for Growth and Education, this is definitely an issue that the Swedish Agency for Growth is now working on. With the review of the Rules Council, we have a fairly clear picture of where the major problems are. Who do not have enough knowledge to do right from the start? Then you can tailor training courses in those areas where there is the greatest need for training. It is a very wise point of view that the Swedish Agency for Growth will work with it. We also look at designing more digital tools to make it easier to do right from the start. Such tools can be used by many, both by authorities and by investigators or by committees. It is in the near future to work with this kind of simpler tool so that you can quickly see which questions you should keep track of to do right from the start. In terms of costs and competitive conditions, time may also be involved. For many companies, time and hassle in the regulatory framework is just as important as the cost itself. I'll read the motion from the Moderates and see what we can learn from it. This is an issue that many different governments have been working on over time. But the important thing is to create a structure so that it becomes part of the normal business to do right from the start, because then it gets much better. Then there are other parts of the business. We have worked a lot on innovation issues, and it is also important to try things out to see what effects it has on regulations and other things. You may not be able to investigate everything from the beginning, but you must also have the courage to try some things. It may not belong in this particular discussion, but there will also be a need for some innovation in the approach to innovative activities. Not only may you investigate everything first, but you try on a small scale and learn from it. Then you can implement new regulations or regulations.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-363	Mr President, I would like to I would like to recommend Damberg to read more of the Moderates' movements. I believe that there is a lot of good things to do, for example, in our budget exercise on entrepreneurship and jobs. I hope that the Minister can devote some time to this in the near future. At the end of the Minister's reply, he says, ‘My intention is to do what I can to reverse this trend. Once again, I think it was a positive contribution. The minister made this an almost personal question by saying that he would do what he could. That is a good thing and something I will, of course, try to follow up. Nevertheless, I think it was a little empty on concrete proposals. I therefore hope that the Moderate exercise can be part of the whole thing. At the same time, I think the digital parts that the Minister and the Government are working on are good. But, as I said, we must have a better situation. 36% approved impact assessments are simply not good enough. If we get this right, so that we can strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, jobs and employment will emerge. We agree on that in principle. That is why this is really an issue that is of the utmost importance for the Swedish business environment. I would like to thank you for this debate. I suppose I and the Minister will see each other again sometime in February, when the next report of the Rule Council comes. Hopefully it has then become a little better figures.
i-1211a4c1104a55e5-369	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jörgen Warborn, for the debate and for the interest in these questions! They are important, not least for small and medium-sized enterprises, which often struggle to cope with their activities. If there is too much error and hassle in the regulations, it takes a lot of time from the important work to develop the company. I agree that the figures are too bad. We have to reverse the trend. I believe that organisational change actually has an effect. Sometimes you have to work with systematic changes. The Swedish Agency for Growth now has an even clearer and close role vis-à-vis the rest of the Government Office to actually ensure that impact assessments are carried out in a wiser way in the future. I hope that this will have an effect as early as February. If you are going to sit in the government and be a minister, you should strive to do things better. This is an area where improvements are needed. I am absolutely sure that the Moderates will demand responsibility if this does not happen. I look forward to seeing you again in February.
