i-UA3n484VHokrp3cAUgF7jo	Madam President, I would like Yesterday's EU-Turkey Summit and the informal meeting of the European Council focused on the EU's relations with Turkey and migration issues in general. It was a long meeting day which, after many tours, resulted in a joint statement by the EU Heads of State or Government. The process this time was not optimal. A new text proposal was presented during the day without warning, and we therefore had reason to return to the Board on several occasions during the current meeting. I hope that the outlook will be better in the future. As far as the content of the statement is concerned, it concerns, in particular, the relationship with Turkey, the so-called Western-Balkan route and aid to Greece. The EU's cooperation with Turkey needs to be developed in order to find a sustainable solution to the refugee problem. Stopping trafficking in human beings is one of the key messages of our joint statement yesterday. We welcome that. We must do what we can to move from chaos and uncontrolled refugee crisis to more secure and controlled migration. Furthermore, the statement highlights a number of the migration proposals presented by Turkey at the sitting table. They include the readmission from Greece to Turkey, the resettlement of Syrians from Turkey to the EU, the promotion of visa liberalisation from the end of June, further EU support for refugees in Turkey and the preparation of the opening of new chapters in the accession negotiations. Since there were so many ambiguities and questions about how to implement the proposals, it was important for the government that the part of the text on Turkey reflected the need to safeguard the right of asylum. We also managed to get written in to respect EU law and international law. We must be clear that we stand up for and stand by these very important principles. With regard to additional funding announced in the statement, I would like to emphasise once again that this is not to give money to the Turkish State, but to provide support to the refugees who are in Turkey, and that is a significant difference. For the visa liberalisation process, there is a road map that is solid and to be followed closely. It is, of course, through Turkey's EU accession process that the EU has the greatest opportunity to make clear demands on Turkey, thus supporting democratic development for the benefit of the entire population of Turkey. Cooperation with Turkey is based on clear expectations of further reforms and deeper democratisation. Madam President, I would like In this connection, too, I would like to point out that at the beginning of our meeting with Turkey, several of us raised the need for Turkey to respect freedom of expression and of the press in connection with the weekend's attack on the Zaman newspaper and, overall, the worrying internal developments in the country. This is also mentioned in the statement. Now the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk, has been given a mandate to develop the various proposals and to return to the summit next week. This also means that we will come back to the Board on these issues. In addition to Turkey, the meeting and the statement dealt with the so-called Western-Balkan route, providing support to Greece. The European Union must be able to assist Greece in dealing with the humanitarian situation, which is very difficult and which we are seeing at the moment. The relocation mechanism will allocate asylum seekers to different countries within the EU. Here we agreed that this process must be speeded up. We have said that many times, and I am well aware of that. I have continued to push for a concrete action plan on how to do this. As part of this, the Commission has now undertaken to report regularly on developments to the Council. After all, the Commission's proposal for emergency aid in the European Union is one way of assisting Greece, and I welcome it. At the same time, it is important that this is done by redeploying existing EU funds. The design of the instrument will be further addressed by the General Council on 15 March. There the government will come back to the matter. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to emphasise once again the seriousness of this situation. If we are not able to deal with the refugee crisis in a common and sustainable way within the European Union, there are very great values at stake. We will already come back to these issues at the European Council next week. Madam President, I would like This was the report back from the meeting.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-14	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the European Council report. It was undeniably a rather intense day yesterday. From the beginning we thought this meeting would be almost a non-meeting, but it developed into something else. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is taking with him to the Commission that the countries that have an EU board have a little difficulty keeping up with the tours. As the Prime Minister said, Turkey is a key player. Turkey has many shortcomings, and I am pleased that views have been expressed on freedom of the media and other things. But one cannot escape the fact that Turkey has taken a huge responsibility in the ongoing refugee disaster by receiving so many refugees from Syria. Now, of course, it's about how we're going to deal with this in the future. I am also pleased that money has been allocated, not to Turkey as a state, but to people, refugees, schooling, health care to make life tolerable for them in various ways. There is also a discussion about whether more can be done. There was a discussion on visa liberalisation. It is incredibly important that we do not let go – and I know that the Prime Minister does not – of redeployment. If we had implemented what the European Union has already decided, we would have had much less problems now. I also think it is very good that the government has been the driving force for the proposals that now exist to be in accordance with international law and the conventions relating to the right of asylum. After all, we in the EU Council are pleased to meet the Prime Minister next week for a new meeting of the European Council. My question is: what is the process in front of it? The Prime Minister was a bit into it, but I would like him to develop this.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-20	Madam President, I would like It is important to point out to the Commission that we have the order of an EU committee that we are going to consult, and we are very clear that we are going to stand up for it. It is simply our regulatory framework, and the Commission must respect that. As regards Turkey's freedom of the media, we have noted that what is happening in that country is problematic, and we have also said so. I repeat that, above all, a possible accession process and the opening of new chapters, specifically chapter. 23 and 24 give us the opportunity to keep up the dialogue with Turkey on how to respect and develop the rule of law, human rights and so on. I see that as a good handrail for work, and we intend to stick to that. The redistribution takes way too long, yes. If I am correctly informed, there are 16 countries that have informed that they are willing, but there is still something that will not work if we have just come up somewhere around 500. The figure moves very little. Regarding the proceedings for the next meeting, President Tusk is now working on the basis of the principles contained in this statement. How will this be specified? How will it be more concrete? How should it be carried out in accordance with the different principles? That's what Tusk's gonna be working on. This process will have to come back to the European Council on how it intends to do so. That is why I say that we have reason to come back to the Board and take the process forward.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-25	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It is true, as the Prime Minister says – for obvious reasons, we will have to devote a great deal of time to these issues next week, but also to the various Council meetings, when the various proposals are to be put into practice. With regard to the proposals on how to deal with readmission, repatriation and so on, we must of course really ensure that this is in accordance with international law and the conventions we have. As I said earlier, I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has been so clear and proactive on this issue and has actually included this in the conclusions as well. These are things that are not self-evident when 28 countries are to unite. It's all about giving and taking.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-27	Madam President, I would like As I said, we will come back to this. Something that I think is important to bear in mind is, as I said in my report, that we need to remove the smuggling of human beings. We must put an end to this. Over 400 people had died by February 26. We have to get away from it. It is not okay that we have some unscrupulous people who make money out of people's accidents and expose people to this terrible thing. Turning this in a different direction, so that we get rid of it and instead get an orderly migration from Turkey to the European Union, I think it is something to strive for. It is one of the main ambitions: stop people dying in the Mediterranean. This is one way to bring this about.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-29	Madam President, I would like We see a serious situation in Europe with the refugee crisis. At the same time, we are seeing worrying trends in Turkey in terms of media and freedom of expression. In the run-up to this summit, we called on the Prime Minister to highlight this issue at the meeting. Now we get reports that the Prime Minister did so too. Nevertheless, I have not really seen how the issue has been dealt with. How was it taken care of in the statement, how was Turkey criticised, how did Turkey respond to the criticism and how will Turkey act in the future? It's important to know. The issue is serious, and it is now important to move forward with a solution. This statement gives hope that Turkey will move forward. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister about the redeployment mechanism. It is important that it comes into being. But is it the Prime Minister's view that Sweden should participate in the redistribution when it comes to receiving refugees from Turkey and redistributing them to Sweden? The Prime Minister says that the issue of redistribution has been discussed many times at many meetings. I agree with that. The Prime Minister says he's prepared to present an action plan. I wonder: when is the Prime Minister prepared to also use the budget to make it pay to do the right thing and not pay to do the wrong thing?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-32	Madam President, I would like Yes, the trends in Turkey are worrying. The fact that we are seeing a worrying development was raised directly at the meeting with Prime Minister Davutouslu. It was referred directly to what happened to the Zaman newspaper and, in general, to the fact that, in short, it is not a good development. Their explanation for the incident is that it is a matter of court decisions in their country, that it is an independent court that has taken these decisions. It's their defense of what's happening. There were several Heads of State or Government who raised the issue, and this was the answer we received from Prime Minister Davuto.lu. What is now stated in the statement is: The EU Heads of State or Government also discussed with the Turkish Prime Minister the situation of the media in Turkey. That is what has been done. One of my points is that if we open more chapters in the accession process, especially cap. 23 and 34, there is a process for how things are to be done, what is to be done and what is to be fulfilled for Turkey to be eligible for membership. This includes, not least, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and human rights in general. As far as the redistributive mechanism is concerned, given what we have already done, Sweden is not supposed to be involved. However, if we reach a solution and a situation in which we have come to grips with the acute, short-term, dangerous and uncertain refugee situation and can move on to a more manageable and orderly migration, I think we should all stand up for such a system. However, we have said that on this occasion, in view of the commitments we have already made, we are not ready for this. In the long term, however, we want to participate in a system in which we benefit within the European Union.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-36	Madam President, I would like I regret that the Prime Minister did not push the budget issue. I hope he will do so next week, in a week and a half, when the Heads of State or Government meet again. It is a little unclear what line Sweden took in the negotiations. These were some sensitive issues, including the issue of safe zones. We Moderates are sceptical as to whether it is possible to maintain safe zones in Turkey. Furthermore, I wonder about the view of the NATO operation, which became operational yesterday. The Foreign Minister has been critical, but from what I understand now, the Prime Minister may welcome this. Surely, in order to be able to send refugees back to Turkey, the country must be classified as safe. Is it the Prime Minister's position that Turkey should be classified as a safe country?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-40	Madam President, I would like Regarding the use of the budget, it is not as simple as it might sound, that it is just doing something. You have to stick to the rules that exist. However, it is clear that countries such as Sweden, which is a net contributor to the EU, will not in the long term be able to stand up for what we are doing if it is the case that some should give and some should not have to give anything at all, or in this case even stand up in a difficult refugee situation when the EU's 28 Member States are to help each other. It will be tough in the long term, and that is our message to them. As far as safe zones are concerned, there is a statement about an ambition to bring about something that is humanitarian safe, and it would be good if we could achieve that. However, this should of course take place in parallel with what is being done by the UN, not least the UN Security Council. I just had a conversation with Staffan de Mistura in that area. There the EU will run in parallel with the UN and the work it is doing there for the peace process.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-43	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for the presentation. With regard to the important issues of the mass immigration crisis and Turkey's involvement, it is obviously important to hold talks between the EU and Turkey. We are here in Europe and the European Union, of course, partly dependent on Turkey in this context. At the same time, however, it is quite unreasonable, in my view and in my view, for the Swedish Democrats, that Turkey is holding the European Union hostage in this case. It is quite unreasonable for us to meet visa facilitation. It is quite unreasonable for us to enter into negotiations and chapters on accession. It is also totally unreasonable for us to meet Turkish EU membership. I can't let that happen. Here, we in the Swedish Democrats believe that the government and the Prime Minister are very naive. About 3% of Turkey's surface is in Europe. We have seen Islamic developments in Turkey for many years. If you look at the economic situation of the country: You have only a fraction of Sweden's bnp, for example. We see widespread corruption. We see that human rights are not respected. We see how minorities are treated in Turkey. This is quite the wrong way to go about trying to get Turkey into full membership of the European Union in this way. This is the wrong way to bow to these threats, this hostage situation. Instead, of course, we will help more in place. That is what countries such as Lebanon and Jordan are asking for. The chaos referred to by the Prime Minister has been caused by countries such as Sweden and the Swedish Government. It is the signal policy that has been taking place for decades that has ensured that we have had this chaos. Instead, get a return agreement in place with Turkey! Abort all visa facilitation and membership discussions! My question to the Prime Minister, Madam President, is: why is Sweden, the European Union and the Prime Minister lying flat for Turkey on this issue?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-51	Madam President, I would like Pavel Gamov makes the mistake of believing that this is just about inviting membership and that it is then clear. But that's not how it works. While Pavel Gamov admits that there is some dependence here, he says: Make sure to fix a return agreement! Here, then, one party should sit and say: It is only we who should have, and there is no interdependence. Well, there's an interdependence. It should be remembered that Turkey has a profit from the functioning of the European Union. Just look at what it looks like in Turkey's world. It doesn't work there. It's a very worried world. If the EU then works and functions well and is able to deal with the refugee crisis, Turkey benefits from it, as does the EU. At this moment, when we now have the opportunity to get to grips with trafficking in human beings and a chaotic refugee situation and to do something about it in real life, the Swedish Democrats stand aside as usual. We intend to do what is necessary to stop the smuggling of human beings and to ensure that we can have an orderly migration. As far as visa requirements are concerned: they are precisely a requirement, a handrail for how to move forward. What is to be achieved in order to obtain visa liberalisation? It is a very clear list for that, so just take note of it. The same applies if the opening of the accession chapters is to be started. There are also very clear criteria that I have mentioned on two occasions. That's cap. 23 and cap. 24. What's in it? Yes, it is precisely the requirements that are to be met in order for it to become a membership. We therefore have an orderly process for this, and I think that is a good thing. We have every reason to understand that we are part of a world around us, and that part of our world means a lot to us. It is so obvious to us what is happening in the Middle East and that part of the world, which Turkey is so close to, and then it is clear that we should also try to find ways to help each other.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-57	Madam President, I would like Again, the chaos referred to has been caused by the Prime Minister and the government. It has not been caused by Turkey or the countries around Turkey, which have tried to shoulder their responsibilities. It has been caused by countries such as Sweden, Germany and Austria, which have had a lax signal policy, which has had a pull factor here for this mass immigration crisis. As far as Turkey is concerned, we must certainly have discussion and dialogue with them, and we can have an economic exchange. But we absolutely should not allow Turkey to enter as a full member of the European Union. That's completely unreasonable. This is not something the Swedish people want. That is not what the other peoples of Europe want. Turkey is not a European country. 3% of the area is located in Europe. Turkey is not a European country either religiously, culturally or linguistically. Turkey, on the other hand, is a very large country and has major problems. We should certainly have dialogue with them, but we should not let them in as a member of the Union.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-60	Madam President, I would like I think it is obvious to most people that the chaos that we have seen now is because we have a very cruel war in Syria. It is not because of the Swedish Government. It does not depend on the European Union. It is because of this horrendous war, which has been going on for five years. Now, perhaps, we have a peace process, and we hope that the ceasefire is real and that we can get a peace process under way, so that the people of Syria can look to the future with confidence. That's the problem. We have had to stand up for international conventions, that people fleeing from war, torture and misery have an opportunity to seek asylum. It is an international commitment that we shall stand up for. However, we have also said that we should not do it in a disproportionate way, but all the countries of the European Union must shoulder their responsibilities, and that is what this is all about. A good relationship with Turkey is good. We're going to develop it. It's important.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-64	Madam President, I would like It was, as the Prime Minister said, not a very good process to come up with a paper at the sitting table. We tried to handle it yesterday as best we could. Now we have one week to correct any ambiguities. We have now received the paper, and that is good. People should not be expelled as a need for international protection. But at the same time, send back as efficiently as possible. We will defend the right to individual redress. But at the same time it should be a very fast process. We're going to increase control and surveillance. But at the same time, we will open a route for legal migration. There are a lot of contradictions. At the same time, we are going to fund schools, hospitals and food, so that people have a more decent life in the camps. At the same time, however, we have not decided how to proceed. There's a lot to be sorted out this week. In fact, I see that Sweden has a historic role. As the Prime Minister says, we shall have order at our borders. But this can only happen if it is based on full respect for human rights and the international conventions on which the EU is based. You're supposed to have your case tried. Protection against violence and oppression. That right must be upheld. If we do not succeed in this fight this week, we will have a situation in which the European Union is building walls and demolishing international law. Then we have no moral potential when we ask dictators and others to get their act together. It is extremely important that we succeed, and I know that the government is pushing here to defend international law, to defend the legal right of people to seek protection. That is the big challenge. Then my question is, What are the prospects? I know that many others want to close the border and that it will then be done. What's the challenge? What chance do we have of winning, so that the proposal will be reasonable in the end?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-70	Madam President, I would like The challenge lies in the balance described by Carl Schlyter. We want to ensure that this trafficking in human beings, this inhumane handling of people, where up to 500 people have died so far. We have to stop that. I believe that this is important responsibility for us. It is important to try to switch it to an arranged reception, where one looks at who is to come and how the distribution is to take place. It will take time to get a whole new system in place, but I think we should have that picture in front of us. We are going to move away from inhumane management and ensure that we have a reception that is arranged. That is exactly where the balance lies, and that is where the details and concrete implementation must be designed. Ending the chaos is really the main message. This will be done, we mean, if you destroy the business model, because unfortunately the Mediterranean is a business model, and it is not humane. Otherwise, it is not least Greece that is needed now, assistance to Greece in a very difficult situation. The people who are there now and who are on the islands are going to the mainland, and then it must be a good management. Sweden is prepared to provide further assistance with regard to prefabricated houses, tents and what may be needed for them to have a decent situation. As Mr Schlyter points out, it is crucial that we stand up for the right of asylum. We need to keep our external borders in order for it to work within the European Union as well. But in this there must be a right to asylum. Ideally, we want to achieve the orderly reception of refugees that is ever possible, because that is the best we can do for the refugees.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-74	Madam President, I would like It is in the time of trial that we need to defend human rights at its most. It is easy to say that we want a lot of human rights when there is the least need for them. As the need grows, their defence must also grow. I see it very much as Sweden's task. Many other countries have not taken on that role. It's important. The second question I have concerns Turkey. We are now working with Turkey on this issue. There is a risk of the flow of refugees moving to other countries with even more serious democratic problems. It is important to ensure that the EU does not end up in a hostage situation where countries use this to influence the EU in an undemocratic way. I have a question about Turkey, if negotiations are to be opened. That's where they shut down newspapers. They have a lack of freedom of the press. They have violence against internal minorities. It is forbidden to even mention a genocide that everyone knows happened. That is a long list of things that Turkey must tackle. This process can be part of ensuring that it is done better. What's the Prime Minister's assessment? Will the strategy succeed?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-78	Madam President, I would like First of all, I share the view that it is in the time of the test that this really is the case: is human rights being defended or not? That is quite correct. We will, and we will. As far as cooperation with Turkey is concerned, it is the same answer again. My assessment is that if you have an orderly process, such as opening chapters in the application process, there are handrails for what should be fulfilled and what should be done to be eligible. Five chapters are now mentioned: energy, transport, human rights and foreign affairs. There are two chapters dealing with human rights, say 23 and 24. If they are opened, there is the question: What should be fulfilled? There can be no rapprochement and membership if this is not achieved. We must be extremely clear about this, and it is the same with regard to the visa liberalisation process. The criteria that are there must be met in order for it to be achieved.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your accounting. I, too, would like to state that it is important that we maintain freedom of movement within the Schengen area now that more and more Member States are closing their borders. Then an external border is required. I shall now turn to talking about Turkey. I think it is extremely important to hear the Prime Minister say again that it is the Köpenhamn criteria that apply and nothing else. Turkey cannot, and should not, have a free ticket for entry into our Union. We must stand up for the criteria that we have set for membership of our Union, and that includes, among other things, human rights. So on to the right of asylum, which we all think is important. The statement states that irregular migrants will be returned to Turkey if they come from there. At the same time, it is said that for every Syrian sent back, another Syrian will be able to access the EU area. But what about the right of asylum for an Iraqi, an Iranian or an Afghan? They're supposed to be returned, too. Who will test their asylum grounds? Are we really standing, Prime Minister, for what we are saying, namely to protect people who are in need and fleeing oppression and persecution?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-85	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is not the case that Turkey should have a free ticket. I don't know how many times I have to put it. The visa liberalisation and possible accession negotiations processes shall be completed. There we are in complete agreement, the Heads of Government and the Heads of State. There is no free ticket for Turkey; there is no free ticket for anyone. There is some security in this for me. There is a handrail that we have to stick to, and there are certain things that should be fulfilled before this can be considered. With regard to the right of asylum, there are two words that are interesting. One is the one that Eskil Erlandsson points out: to return all new irregular migrants. Then there is a write later: to assist Greece in ensuring comprehensive size scale and fast track returns to Turkey of all irregular migrants not in need of international protection. This is an issue that needs to be clarified. What does that mean? Tsipras describes how they do in Greece, and it is also there that a form of individual handling. You take each individual individually and of course want to speed up the process so that it will go as quickly as possible. There are opportunities to have a faster process of returning to Turkey. This is what we've been pushing. There are people who may need protection in Greece, where it is pronounced in Greece. It is precisely these kinds of issues that must now be clarified. What should apply in different situations? This is what Mr Tusk now has a mandate to clarify. So there are two texts that are important and that we intend to continue to push and hold.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-90	Madam President, I would like I value the statement again made by the Prime Minister regarding Turkey. We have no differences of opinion, but I would like it to be stuck, as it were, in the Minutes. I turn to the question of asylum reasons. I said at our last consultation last night and night that I reserve the right to come back on the fact that it was not possible at that time to sort out what would happen to the people who seek protection on our continent and who are not Syrians. I assume that at the forthcoming meeting we will have such an opportunity so that we do not have to discuss the question of whether we should in any way suspend the right of asylum. I would like a promise from the Prime Minister that this will happen.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-93	Madam President, I would like We have stood up for the right of asylum. That is why we received the wording here on respect for both international law and EU law. We were the ones who brought this writing in. It must now be made clear more precisely how this is to be done. Of course, it was not done at yesterday's meeting with the Heads of Government and Heads of State. That is what should be made clear now. That is the mission that Tusk has, and that is what is to be delivered. I cannot tell you here and now exactly how it is to be done, because that is what is included in the mandate. But we have the same basic position: we want to stand up for the right of asylum. At the same time, we should remember that we need to see the whole picture. The message I spoke about at the beginning is that we want to put an end to the dangerous irregular escape routes across the Mediterranean where people die by the hundreds. We have to stop that. That signal must be clear: remove it, destroy that business model and return to more regulated immigration where refugees can receive much more humane treatment!
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your report. Yesterday was bleak for the European Union and for the right of asylum. Now Turkey will be our border police and our border guard. There, refugees will be sent back without trial. That's putting the right of asylum out of hand. What kind of country are the refugees to be sent back to? Turkey does not provide a non-European refugee status – not anyone. That is Turkey's refugee policy. Refugees are directly rejected to war Syria. It is Turkey that should be our border police. Turkey is becoming increasingly authoritarian. The oppression of the Kurds is intensifying. The democratic pro-Kurdian party HDP is being persecuted with something similar to terror. Freedom of the press is being openly attacked. They're supposed to be our border guard. In the past, the government has said that Turkey is not a safe country of asylum. It has been pointed out that Turkey is not complying with international conventions, and it has pointed out the situation of refugees in that country. Yesterday it seemed to change.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-101	Madam President, I would like I think we need to see the whole picture. We also need to see the problems that we actually have. We've got a lot of people running their necks over their heads. They get into boats that are not seaworthy, they pay money to these totally unscrupulous smugglers and they die on the Mediterranean. It's a problem we have. We also have a very difficult refugee situation in the EU and in Europe. Of course, the hardest is where people really get hurt, but it is also here. We have different ways of dealing with it. Either we ignore the fact that Turkey is there and that it is where it is, or we see that it is part of the problem and also part of the solution. Then I think it makes sense to seek a consensus solution with Turkey. It has long been a Swedish position that we want Turkey to become a member of the European Union under certain conditions. We think it's important. At this point, to reject them and say that they have no role to play and that we can do this on our own is not realistic. We're gonna take this opportunity. Turkey will not be border police. I mean, that's the wrong thing to say. There is an individual trial of the people who come to Greece, and that is what Tsipras describes to us. They're making that. Now the idea is that more people will be sent back to Turkey, and that is to put an end to the trafficking of human beings – we must put an end to it – and that instead, in an orderly form, we can take people from Turkey to the European Union without having to make these dangerous journeys. That's what this is about. For this to work now, the details must be in place. How is this to be done? What applies, for example, to non-refoulement? It is an international rule, and the European Commission considers that Turkey is covered by it. You can't send people back under any conditions. This must be made clear and concrete.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-106	Madam President, I would like I put a straight question to the Prime Minister: if he considers Turkey to be a safe country of asylum. I didn't get an answer. Sometimes the lack of answers can be an answer in itself. Unfortunately, this is the case, because Turkey is not a safe country of asylum, and that is where people should be expelled directly from Greece. The UNHCR, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, has also warned against this agreement on several occasions. Leading representatives of the UNHCR have said that the risk is that this will lead to an end to the individual examination and that the agreement may violate international law. So we are talking about the United Nations Refugee Agency. I would like to return to my question to Stefan Löfven. Does the government believe that Turkey is a safe country of asylum?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-109	Madam President, I would like We have raised that issue here, and we have said that we do not believe it, not least because of the situation of the Kurds. Greece and Turkey have an agreement, and it is Greece's situation that we are trying to resolve. In that context, it will be this order. We must put an end to the cruel trafficking in human beings; I firmly say so. There is no easy solution to that. However, we are also prepared to receive refugees directly from Turkey, in an orderly form, so that they do not have to make this dangerous journey. UNHCR has a number of different views, but believes that we must try to stop the inhumane trafficking that is taking place across the Mediterranean. That is also the position of the UNHCR. We are a very strong donor and give support to the UNHCR, so I think we will clarify that situation.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-112	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for another report on a subject in which we are all very committed! This is evident from these discussions. As the Prime Minister said, the humanitarian crisis is due to war, terrorism, persecution and environmental disasters. It is not due to anything else, and it was nice that the Prime Minister made it so clear. However, it is also largely due to the EU's total inability to deal jointly with what has now become a humanitarian crisis but which would not have had to be so. We all know that if we had had a common asylum policy from the outset, we would not have stood in the sea of misery that we are doing right now. Should we be a little self-critical too, because it is appropriate to be so sometimes, Sweden did not go to the rescue when the countries on the southern edge of the EU already years ago shouted for help because they could not deal with the situation. It is not until the refugees have come up here that we suddenly push the issue as strongly as we do. So I think we should be a little self-critical, too. Last time the Prime Minister was in the EU Council, I asked a specific question about a statement he made. The Prime Minister then said that Turkey must create the possibility of health care, education and work so that people do not flee further automatically and that it should also monitor borders and combat trafficking in human beings. I wonder if the part dealing with work, care and school was up for discussion at this meeting.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-116	Madam President, I would like I share the view of the inability of the European Union. It's quite obvious. I am genuinely concerned about the EU as a whole. If we cannot do this, it is more at stake here, and it would be very unfortunate in this world if we could not stand up for a strong European Union. With regard to Turkey, the existing two-year programme for 2016 – 2017 and the 3 billion promised, this includes health care, school and job opportunities. It could be medical care and other things, too. Unfortunately, it has also taken too long to translate the resources, but there are now two concrete projects, if I have understood correctly, which the Commission has said it is moving on with. One has to do with education and involves about 50 million for schooling for children in Turkey. The second project is in collaboration with the World Food Programme and will ensure that there is enough food and supplies for the people. That is also why we added to this statement that we want to speed up the implementation, the use, of these 3 billion and that we are also prepared to look after it at whether we need to push a little more to make it work so that we can have a decent life inside Turkey.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-119	Madam President, I would like Human smuggling is a terrible phenomenon. We see, as the Prime Minister says, how many have perished in the Mediterranean not just this year but for many years. Human trafficking must therefore be combated. I support this, but it must not result in us simply shooting people back to Turkey and building gigantic refugee camps that will be permanent if we do not find common solutions within the European Union. I would also like to mention Turkey's role. Like everyone else, I'm concerned. Does the Prime Minister not see any danger in compromising the EU's human rights requirements simply because it is now facing this crisis that we do not want to deal with jointly? This has not been done for years, so it is obvious that you do not want it.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-121	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. I had it myself yesterday and warned that we should not put ourselves in a situation where we are tying ourselves up, for example, in the visa liberalisation process, so that we do not see a way out in June, and that needs to be simplified on rules. I raised that question specifically to confirm: no, we are not going to do that. This was clearly expressed during the meeting. You don't have to bend the rules, and we're really going to stand up for that. It's extremely important. When it comes to not just sending people back to Turkey, that is quite right. We must give them more decent conditions, as we are going to do in Lebanon and Jordan. There are two countries that are also making fantastic efforts, and they must also be supported. We had up at the internal meeting yesterday that we must not forget those countries. Several countries need support. We need to do much to ensure that people have a reasonably decent life in such a difficult situation.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-123	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. Last night we had an extraordinary meeting of the European Council on the proposal that Turkey threw in at yesterday's European Summit. I chose to abstain because I thought it was too hasty and that it was too difficult and serious to make decisions so quickly. I find Turkey's proposal to start trading refugees absurd. It feels directly distasteful. So we are going to send irregular migrants and Syrian refugees from Greece back to Turkey, and then Turkey is going to have to send some Syrian refugees back to the EU. In my ears, this sounds like human trafficking. What does the Prime Minister think? I also wonder, of course, whether it is the Prime Minister's intention that Turkey should now decide on the EU's migration policy – a policy that we cannot even hold together ourselves within the EU. How long will this refugee exchange agreement last? What are we tying up the Member States of the European Union for? Where are these Syrian refugees to arrive, and then how are they to be distributed within the EU? After all, we cannot even do today with the redistribution of refugees within the European Union. What will happen to the irregular refugees returning to Turkey? Where are they going? Who will select the Syrian refugees who are allowed to come to the EU? Is that Turkey? Is it the UN? Or is it the EU? Then it's about when these refugees come. And if the Turkey route is to be closed, other routes will be chosen. What readiness is there for that? I believe that each EU country must have an influence on its own reception capacity, and I believe that we need to find other legal ways into the European Union instead of this type of human trafficking that I think it is now in. How does the Prime Minister view the issue of human trafficking?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-130	Madam President, I would like It's the human trafficking we're supposed to stop. That is the ambition. We have to stop it. We have a human trafficking which is absolutely disgusting at the moment. There are those who shy away from anything to profit from other people and from the death of others. There are almost 500 people who have died only this year in the Mediterranean. That's what we want to stop. I believe that it is not human trafficking, but we are moving from the disorderly refugee situation and the disaster that we are now looking at to an orderly situation in which the EU receives in orderly forms from Turkey. I think that is much better. It is based on the principle of one for one. So it is one that goes back from Greece to Turkey and another that goes from Turkey to the EU. That's the math, quite simply, in this. What one can say, though, if one may philosophize a little over it, is that of course there is a weakness in it. What happens when there are no longer sent back any? We need to think about that further. I believe that we should aim for a situation where we have an orderly migration, more legal paths simply and orderly paths. I think we should aim for that. It's a future system. But it is clear that this weakness is in this very thing, if one were to describe it as a weakness. But I'm saying we can move on. But we must put an end to what is going on today, and that is nothing more than a disgusting and illegal trafficking in human beings, trafficking. This is an answer to that. It's not human trafficking in itself. No.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-134	Madam President, I would like However, is it not a risk, the Prime Minister, that we are now being dragged into a trafficking in human beings or a trafficking in refugees where we are going to be exchanging refugees? Some will be allowed to go back from Greece to Turkey. Then they will come from Turkey into the EU. Isn't that a strange development? Surely the Prime Minister must realise that this is some kind of strange redistribution of refugees. And who's going to decide who's coming? After all, we must have an answer to how these are to be appointed in such cases. I see great risks of Turkey tying the whole of Europe behind our migration policy. We're here to help. Of course, people who are Syrian refugees in Turkey should be helped. Children are going to go to school and so on. But I wonder about the resources that the Prime Minister is talking about – Sweden will also send 600 million to Turkey. Where will that money go if it does not go into Turkey's treasury? Who's going to redistribute those resources?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-137	Madam President, I would like I maintain that it is not human trafficking when we stop trafficking in human beings – that is what we are doing. Today, trafficking in human beings is taking place. Today we really have difficult problems with human trafficking – that is my firm opinion. People die in the Mediterranean. It's about stopping it. They then go back to Turkey, and so says the EU, not Turkey: for every person who goes back, we take one from Turkey. It's about stopping the business model. Today, it is worthwhile for traffickers and others to take this path and expose people to it. If we stop it and get an orderly reception instead, I mean we've done a good job. Then it applies to the resources, the 600 million SEK that Sweden will provide in two years. It is precisely in order for the refugees in Turkey to be able to have schooling, health care, access to the labour market, education and what they need to have in order to have a reasonably decent life in Turkey. I think it is a good effort that we will be proud of.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-140	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report from yesterday's meeting! The days of illegal migration are over, said President Donald of the European Council last night in a statement after yesterday's meeting. There is every reason, unfortunately, to doubt that that statement will become a reality. However, combating the refugee smuggling is extremely important. We are in complete agreement on that. Creating better migration is necessary – orderly migration. Hopefully, increased support for Greece and better cooperation with Turkey can contribute to this, although there are many concerns about how this should be done, as the questions of Members of this House bear witness. However, if cooperation with Turkey is successful, it will mean that more refugees from Syria will remain in Turkey, more refugees in need of humanitarian aid. I would therefore like to continue a little on the subject on which the previous questioner, Mrs Pethrus and also Tina Acketoft, referred. How do we ensure that aid reaches the Syrian refugees in Turkey? We now have about 2 million refugees from Syria in Turkey. Many are children. How do we ensure that an entire generation is not lost when they do not have access to school? How do we ensure that these funds actually arrive? It is good that the Prime Minister is clear that the money should not end up in the pockets of the Turkish authorities. But it must come to these people, so that the Syrian schoolchildren come into the school bench.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-145	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely crucial for any support at all: the identification of projects. As I explained earlier, there are now two current projects. One has to do with school. It was identified with the construction of schools, the location and so on. The second programme is in collaboration with the World Food Programme. There is also a project, quite simply, and it is to be implemented. Then it should be followed up in the usual order. But it is precisely to ensure that it is not just a coin into the Turkish treasury that it should be handled so. It is a question of identifying concrete projects. This is worth spending money on. Here we can get a good result. Here the children will be able to go to schools. Here people will be able to work. There's medical care here. Here there's food and so on. This is the kind of concreteisation that is needed for these funds. That is also why we said that we are willing to speed up this implementation so that we use these resources so that the refugees will have a better situation in Turkey. That is how this is to be done. Identify concrete projects! Execute them! And account for what has been done with the money!
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-148	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer, which became something more concrete! It is good that these two projects have been identified. But it is nowhere near the EUR 3 billion to be channelled. It's good that there's a 150 million project that's about securing schooling for hopefully a large number of Syrian schoolchildren – but not for everyone. It is also important, I think, the Prime Minister, to look at the possibility of taking advantage of all the skills that the Syrian refugees in Turkey actually possess. There are many teachers who could contribute, for example. Then there is another question, Madam President. The Prime Minister has repeatedly repeated that we have to break the business model, the business concept of smuggling. I don't want it to pay off. Then I would like to return to Ulrika Karlsson's question. Why not use the budget tool as a way to ensure that it is not worthwhile for EU countries to escape responsibility?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-151	Madam President, I would like I'll start at the latter end. I have heard so many statements and questions about this, but I have not heard any concrete proposal. What's the point? Should Sweden stop paying membership fees, or should these countries not benefit from funds? What's the point? It's a little hard to answer those questions. As far as the first part is concerned, we are in complete agreement. It has been far too slow, too, since these funds became available. That's why we're now entering: speed up the disburseme nt of the initially allocated 3 billion and so on. It is a call from Heads of Government and Government. This must be speeded up in order for the refugees to have a more humane existence in Turkey. We are doing the best we can to speed this up, but there must also be an order for it, so that we do not just pour out money. They should be used for something good. We're trying to speed up as much as we can.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-154	Madam President, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. As has been said, we have an almost unsustainable situation in the refugee camps both in Turkey and in Greece. It is of great importance that we help to provide clean humanitarian aid. But I have a question about the economy after the night's negotiations and the various bids that came. The EU and Turkey previously agreed on a plan in which the EU contributes EUR 3 billion in support of Syrian refugees in Turkey. Sweden will then contribute 600 million here. Yesterday there was a new proposal from Turkey to double the sum, and a statement from the EU Heads of State or Government says that it will decide on additional funding for refugee facilities for Syrians. At the same time, the Prime Minister has spoken of support for Greece in the difficult situation in which they find themselves. It is also mentioned in this statement that contributions should be made by EU Member States. Since the process is now under way, my question is: How much financial support are we talking about in total for Sweden? How far does the Prime Minister and the Government go on this issue?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-158	Madam President, I would like There is now a decision of EUR 3 billion in two years, of which Sweden will account for a total of SEK 600 million in 2016 and 2017. Nothing else is promised. There was a proposal from Turkey to add EUR 3 billion. It was one of the issues that was also raised at our internal meeting, and then I pushed myself that we can not only say that we stand for 3 billion more but that we know what this is supposed to be, but we have to identify that. Therefore, the wording as it was in the sense that no more is promised. What it says is... and decide on additional funding for the Refugee Facility for Syrians. It simply remains to be seen what it should be, but if we get a good result and good project of this in terms of schooling, work, health care, food and so on, I don't think we need to be ashamed to be prepared to do a little more in that part. However, there is nothing promised, and therefore there is nothing promised by the Swedish Government about how far we are prepared to go, but we will have to look at it. Now it is 2016 and 2017 that applies. There is EUR 3 billion for this, and after that we will see what might be required in 2018.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-161	Madam President, I would like There are unclear wordings, and much remains to be seen. I understand that it is difficult to say any precise sums, but in any case I would like to see some form of budget from Sweden's side, if we add together the financial contributions to Turkey and Greece with the costs of Frontex, the actions of the Coast Guard and possible actions also from MSB. Support costs money, no matter what form it comes in. I would therefore like to have some kind of focus on this and on Sweden's part of it. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of helping in the situation that is.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-163	Madam President, I would like Then we agree on that. We're going to help, and we're going to help Greece. They need help. We need to protect the outer border together. That's where we can contribute. If Maria Plass expects me here and now to be able to answer what this adds to, unfortunately, I must disappoint Maria Plass. What this costs is no money I have in my head. I think it is right that we should do what we do in the effort for refugees in Turkey, that we should contribute to Frontex and that we should also contribute humanitarianly in Greece, not least with the prefabricated houses and tents. As far as I am concerned, it is within the framework of the budget that already exists. But I don't know the money inside and out. I can't.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-175	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Kerstin Lundgren has asked me whether I and the government intend to increase efforts and pressure through various agencies to bring both Nadija Savtjenko and other illegally captured Ukrainian citizens immediately to Ukraine. Kerstin Lundgren has also asked me whether I and the government intend to call on the Russian authorities to stop making Nadija Savtjenko and other illegally imprisoned Ukrainian citizens hostage, risk their lives and violate their fundamental rights. I appreciate Kerstin Lundgren asking this question, thus drawing attention to Nadija Savtjenko and the other Ukrainian citizens detained in connection with Russia's aggression against Ukraine. In bilateral talks with Russian representatives and through the EU, Sweden has stated that Russia should immediately release Savtjenko and other Ukrainian citizens illegally detained, such as Oleg Sentsov and Alexander Kolchenko. The Embassy of Sweden in Moscow monitors through its employees Savtjenko trial and thereby also shows Sweden's support. The government is working to ensure that the EU will continue to pursue this issue. Sweden's and the EU's support for the release of Nadija Savtjenko is something I emphasised at a meeting with her sister Vira in November in Ukraine. It was the second time I met her sister. Let me assure Kerstin Lundgren that Sweden will continue to be a driving force for the release of Nadija Savtjenko and other Ukrainian citizens illegally and in violation of the Minsk agreements in Russia. As I said earlier in this House, Sweden is behind efforts to secure the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and to maintain pressure on Russia to respect the obligations and commitments of international law, including respect for human rights. The release of Savtjenko and other illegally arrested persons forms part of these obligations and commitments. We welcome similar calls from international human rights organisations, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly.
i-EmktncrTWhQaJkTPWpXAkm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Today, on International Women's Day, I think there is an extra reason to draw attention to one of the women who has been kidnapped from their home country and illegally taken to Russia. It is precisely Nadija Savtjenko, Ukrainian pilot, Member of the Radan and Member of the Council of Europe. She will, hopefully, be 35 years old on May 11. She was illegally captured in June 2014 and was taken to Russia in July 2014 after Russian separatists kidnapped her in the Donetsk area. The Russian presence, Madam President, is clearly demonstrated by this, too, because when Ukrainian citizens are taken from their homeland to Moscow precisely for imprisonment and there are accused of one or the other crime, it is of course special. Imagine, Madam President, that a Russian Duma Member would have been kidnapped and taken to Ukraine for trial! What would happen, and what would the reaction be? It is therefore important that we from Sweden, from Europe and from the world as a whole act and react when a Ukrainian citizen is detained and taken to Russia. Now, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also states, it is not only Nadija Savtjenko, although I am lifting her up specifically not least today, but also Oleg Sentsov, Alexander Kolchenko and additional people who have gone the same way and who also need attention. The abuses of these people in terms of human rights are unequivocal. It is important that we increase the pressure for their immediate release. Nadija has now been detained since 2014. She has participated in a five-month so-called trial against her wish as to where it would take place. She was taken to the Rostov region to be tried there. She has carried out three major hunger strikes and began her fourth on Friday– she refuses food but also drinks– because she was not allowed to end the trial period with her own speech. Tomorrow it has been said that her judgment will come. Nadija has made it very clear that she is going back to her home country, Ukraine, whether she lives or dies. I note that Ukrainian doctors have been allowed to see her – it is of course important – but now the power and pressure must also be kept up for her and the others to be released. I hope that the Foreign Affairs Council will act and that the Foreign Ministers of the European Union will work together to make this issue clear and visible so that Nadija is not imprisoned in silence, so that we do not close our eyes for fear of the Russian reaction.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-187	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgre n, for an important interpellation! It is answered by the Foreign Minister on a very appropriate date, given that it is a young female parliamentarian from Ukraine and also – if I understand correctly – the first Ukrainian female fighter pilot. She is imprisoned after Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and the activities and aggression against Ukraine. These are issues that are important in all areas. They're concerned with Ukraine. Last week, and also in the past, we have discussed issues relating to Belarus, Russia and the EU's position. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is fairly clear in his reply, which is positive and good. However, I am concerned about the attitude that the European Union takes from time to time. It is therefore important that Sweden is a driving force, as there are many forces in Europe that are happy to be a little too much, with the Russian regime and Putin. It is certainly for certain strategic and geopolitical reasons, but at this point it concerns individuals. It is Nadija Savtjenko and a long line of others, including Oleg Sentsov and Alexander Kolchenko. These are people who have been illegally held in captivity for several years. Nadija Savtjenko has still not received her sentence, but she risks a prison sentence of up to 30 years. Some of her fellow prisoners have already been sentenced to prison for decades. For many years Sweden has had a tradition of standing up to Russia. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, both bilaterally with Russia and, of course, through the European Union, where we run a large part of our foreign policy, will press for strong pressure at this point in time on both Putin and the other Russian regime on this issue and that the clear Russian policy conducted under the alliance government remains with the current government.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is a fitting day to pay homage to a person like Nadija Savtjenko. She is a courageous and wise person who really still serves as an example and, unfortunately, is also a victim of Russian aggression. Both in the EU context and when Sweden has acted as a nation, we have pushed the issue consistently and consistently. All the foreign ministers have held up photos of Nadija in front of television cameras. We have also posted on social media that we want Nadija Savtjenko to be released to Ukraine. I have met Nadija's sister on a couple of occasions and, in various contexts, made our position quite clear. Today there are also statements on the part of the European Union. The best thing we can do today is to show that we also stand united here in the Swedish Parliament and that we jointly run the line. I was going to say something about the serious situation in Ukraine. It's in the bigger picture. We are still hearing reports of fighting in eastern Ukraine on a daily basis. The assessment is that the Russian-led separatists continue to provide the bulk of the attacks, and Russia continues to support the separatists with regular units, materials, training and leadership. More than 9 000 people have been killed and 20 000 have been injured in Eastern Ukraine since April 2014. The UN also reports that the population of separatist-controlled areas is subject to killing, torture and sexual violence. OSCE observers are still unable to move freely in separatist-controlled areas. The security situation also limits the ability of international organisations to operate in the areas. The situation in Crimea, not least as regards human rights – I have met the leaders of the Tatars – is a source of continued concern. Freedom of assembly and association, freedom of expression and other fundamental rights have been restricted. Sweden is particularly committed to paying particular attention to the vulnerable situation of the Crimean Tatars. We also support civil society organisations working with Crimea. Madam President, I would like We continue to express in bilateral talks with Russian representatives and through the EU that Russia will immediately release Savtjenko and other Ukrainian citizens held in custody. The situation for Nadija Savtjenko is very serious at the moment because she has also stopped drinking, not only stopped eating. Our embassy in Moscow is watching the trial, and we are working to ensure that the European Union is united in pursuing the issue. The Foreign Service has made statements in support of Nadija Savtjenko. Our relationship with Russia must be clear, principled and consistent. I think all assessors would say that Sweden is definitely pursuing a consistent line. I think it is good that Kerstin Lundgren raises the important issue via her interpellation. We will continue to pay attention to it, and it is good that we are so united. Thanks also to Christian Holm Barenfeld for his contribution.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-198	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again, Minister for Foreign Affairs. We agree on the importance of being clear with Russia. It is important that we stand up for human rights when they are violated. They are clearly violated with regard to Nadija Savtjenko and other Ukrainian citizens who have been kidnapped and taken to Russian captivity. In some cases they have been brought to justice in something that can hardly be considered a fair trial. There, commitments under the European Convention are being violated. What concerns, of course, is that the Syria conflict and everything related to the Syria conflict will also spill over in the discussions on how Ukraine has been handled and how people like Nadija have been handled. I hope that today's debate will help to highlight the importance of the release and return of Nadija Savtjenko and others to their home country, Ukraine, even though Nadija Savtjenko has other pictures in front of her. Is it still possible to raise these issues when the Foreign Affairs Council meets? Is there more to be done than just statements? They are good and important, but perhaps more can be done. Perhaps it can be called ambassadors because after a verdict has fallen – if that happens tomorrow – we can clearly indicate that we are seeing and that we are not forgetting what is happening even if we still have a discussion on many other issues. As far as Ukraine is concerned, territorial integrity is, of course, absolutely crucial. I also hope that we will not forget to target Russia in this context. The Minsk Agreement, in all its fragility, focuses far too much on Ukraine and allows Russia to slip away. That's not possible. Without Ukraine regaining territorial integrity, the conflict will not be resolved, and elections that are fair and free will not be possible. That is why, of course, it is crucial for the EU not only to look at the Minsk Agreement but also to look at the history behind it and, as with issues of peace in Syria, to look at who is in power here. That is very clear Russia, Madam President.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-204	Madam President, I would like In many situations in this House, we can, of course, find it interesting and interesting as well as politically important to show the differences between our parties and our attitudes. But at this point I find it very gratifying that the Swedish Parliament is showing broad support for the release of Savtjenko and against the Russian aggression against and the Russian annexation of Crimea. We have a colleague in Ukraine who is imprisoned, as I said, and unfortunately many others. We also know that parliamentarians from other countries are happy to go and go with both Putin and his lackeys in place in Crimea and are not quite clear about territorial integrity and that Ukraine basically continues to have the right to Crimea – although Russia has a different opinion. So it is good that we are united here. Kerstin has had it in the Council of Europe, and I myself have held it at the annual meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Helsinki. We had a resolution on this and adopted a number of statements in favour of it. As I said, it is gratifying that the government is pushing for this, and I hope that it will be done with vigour. The verdict for Savtjenko is expected to come shortly; however, if it is tomorrow, the Russian judicial system will never know. What will the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government do? What will the EU do? It depends on how it will be, but I assume in view of the Russian trial and what we have seen so far that it will not be a liberating verdict. What will be done if there is severe punishment for Savtjenko?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-208	Madam President, I would like I am completely open to using all our diplomatic tools to protest and respond to a verdict that is coming. We are watching the trial and, of course, we will also respond via the European Union to the judgment when and if it comes now and however it may be designed. So we must keep this open, and we must be very clear in our statements when we know how things are going. I want to say something about what we're doing. After all, we have the policy of giving support to Ukraine, and we have said all along that we must help Ukraine to succeed. We provide comprehensive bilateral support; we gave 240 million SEK in 2015. We have a loan of SEK 1 billion, and we are the fourth largest bilateral donor to Ukraine after the United States, Germany and Canada. The bilateral support is approximately SEK 220 million per year. Of course, we support macro-economic development, strengthen the rule of law and help public administration and civil society. We try to make efforts to improve the environment and climate and also work on anti-corruption and gender equality. Energy efficiency is another programme we have invested a great deal in. In addition, we are providing comprehensive humanitarian aid. We have given SEK 100 million in humanitarian aid to facilitate the situation in eastern Ukraine, which is communicated to Ocha, World Food Programme and UNICEF. On top of that, as you two who have already been involved in the debate, we seem to know, through the OSSE. I believe that this is also something we must constantly review – what can we contribute further in terms of observers, monitoring opportunities and improving the observation mission in Ukraine? We have so far given SEK 33 million to the Commission's budget. We have also assisted with armored vehicles, and we intend to continue to provide political and financial support to the Commission. We welcome the recent extension of the mandate of the observer mission. We have also contributed election observers to Odihr's election observation missions. We also provide support via the EU, and there we have six people for the civilian advisory mission in Ukraine. We are involved in a large aid package. These are just a few examples of the support we are giving to Ukraine. This is incredibly important also as a balance to what has been mentioned by both Christian and Kerstin Lundgren here in the debate, namely that there is a great focus on asking Ukraine to take action while there are not always the same demands on the Russian side. We will continue to argue that the sanctions regime should remain in place until compliance with the Minsk agreement is achieved, and we will continue to keep up the pressure. I promise that we will also respond to the verdict when it may come and of course, as I said, use our diplomatic tools. It feels safe and good that we do so in great political unity also from the Swedish Parliament.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-215	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I hope that the plan for using all diplomatic tools is dusted off. If that happens, it is important to act, but even if a judgment should delay, it is important that you react and act, because it is perhaps really about Nadija's chances of survival. Her demand to have a fair and fair trial and to be returned to Ukraine, her home country, is, of course, entirely legitimate and must be fully supported. The Russian action in that part requires very clear criticism to show that such things are not acceptable. That is not how we should act. Russia is a member of the Council of Europe, and Russia has signed the terms of our relationship with each other. But you choose, not only in one area but in many areas, to completely make the agreements you have made. Then, of course, it is good if you choose to act together. It is good if Sweden could build an alliance with other foreign ministers and act together to release the detainees and return to Ukraine. If so, it would be welcome. I hope that the Foreign Minister will succeed in getting more people to make demands on Russia to restore power over the territory to Ukraine. As long as this has not been done, all the support efforts we are trying to make will not be fully effective. It is about Russia still wanting to destabilise, and we must fight that.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-219	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank Christian Holm and Kerstin Lundgren very much for the debate. I believe that our relationship and that of the European Union with Russia must be principled, clear and consistent. The EU must remain a strong voice for democracy and human rights, and that is why we must demand that they fulfil the conditions of the Minsk Agreement. We will continue to pay attention to Mr Savtjenko's situation, and we will react. Our tools are always dusted, so they are ready to be used. It is also a strength if we can respond together in the European context. I hope that we can also receive similar calls from international organisations, from the European Parliament, the Council of Europe and the OSSE, so that we can ensure that this is given full attention, everywhere and internationally. Thank you for initiating this debate.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-223	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me if I think it is reasonable for shows to pay more for electricity than northerners do as long as the South-West link is not completed. Boriana Åberg has also asked whether I believe that it is impossible to predict where the shortage of electricity will occur, given where the electricity is produced in the country and what the infrastructure looks like, without a division into electricity price areas. The background to part of Boriana Åberg's interpellation is the decision of the nuclear power companies to close four reactors and the discussion on the profitability of the remaining reactors. In this part I would like to say that I am well aware of the concerns raised about the viability of nuclear power and that I am following this issue closely. This topic is also important in the discussions taking place within the framework of the Energy Commission's work. Sweden has, as is well known, since 2011, during the time of the alliance government, divided into bidding zones to meet the European Commission's ambition to safeguard the internal market and free movement of electricity. With regard to the question of the division of Sweden into bidding zones and the consequences of this, my starting point is that I believe in principle that we should seek a common price in Sweden and that the long-term best measure to eliminate any price differences between bidding zones is to strengthen transmission capacity. That is also what is happening right now. It would be – as I have said before – to do things in the wrong order to first intervene in the market and then wait for the launch of the South-West Link. However, I can see that for several years we have generally low electricity prices in Sweden and that the price differences between the electricity areas of Nordpool Spot have been generally small. Furthermore, I would like to take this opportunity to develop my answer to a question from Boriana Åberg earlier this year regarding electricity areas. The boundaries of Sweden's four bidding zones follow from where in the transmission network there are limitations in transmission capacity. The restrictions were also in place before the division into bidding zones. The division into bidding zones means that it becomes clear where in Sweden there is a surplus or a deficit of electricity because prices may vary. This makes it clear where investments in networks and new production capacity may be needed. I would like to conclude by saying that the government's most important task within the framework of the Energy Commission is to create a broad political settlement that secures Sweden's electricity supply in a way that benefits both Swedish industry and Swedish households as well as the environment and the climate in the long term. The Government intends to discuss with the other parties in the Energy Commission how this can be implemented.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-228	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Energy for his answer. When my initial question was asked, we had had days when the electricity price in Skåne was twice as high as in Norrland, which should upset the Minister for Energy in a government that claims to stand for justice. Instead, the Minister writes that we generally have low electricity prices. We note that since the Minister took up his post, he has, in any case, been lucky with the weather. Could two mild winters have caused the minister to forget what it was like a few years ago – extreme cold, semi-empty water storage and operational problems with the nuclear reactors? Then the people were given electricity bills of 10 000 to 15 000 kroner a month. People cried on TV and asked their electricity suppliers for payment plans. We don't want to end up there again. According to the Swedish power grid, Sweden's own production is barely enough for a cold day. Large quantities of electricity will have to be imported, but it is not certain that Sweden's neighbours will then have any electricity to export. At the beginning of January neither Poland nor Germany had any surplus during the cold weather. Swedish power networks provide very clear information about what will happen if the situation is really strained: In the first place, the oil-fired power plants in Karlshamn are started. We burn oil and increase emissions. How does it rhyme with the government's intention to protect the environment? If it is not enough, Swedish power grids can pay two large paper industries, Holmen's mill and Stora Enso, for them to stop consuming electricity. It is completely unreasonable to pay tax money for factories to stand still! The last emergency measure is to be forced to shut down parts of the network so that citizens do not receive any electricity. Then we'll have electric rationing. I, who come from Bulgaria, a country that used to be ruled by communist regimes, have experienced electric rationing during many winters. You have two hours of electricity and then two hours without. It is not something one wishes to see, and it would be a terrible decline in the development of Sweden, a country that has long had a safe, clean and secure supply of electricity. However, Swedish power networks estimate the threat to be realistic given the lack of production that will occur if nuclear power is phased out prematurely and because of ill-considered political decisions. The situation in Skåne will be most critical, and I would like to hear what the Minister will do to ensure that all citizens, both in Skåne and in Norrland, have a secure electricity supply at reasonable prices. Will the Minister, for example, ensure that the impact tax is reduced, preferably now in the spring bill?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for raising very important questions! It is my starting point that Swedish households and Swedish industries in all situations should be able to count on having access to electricity, preferably also at competitive prices. That is something we are rightly counting on. We have every opportunity in the world to do this as well. Energy policy today is governed by the guidelines laid down in the 2010 Riksdag, guidelines that Boriana Åberg voted for, because it was part of the bourgeois settlement at the time. Even when we took office as a government, we could see that that is not enough. The whole starting point for this policy was that when the current reactors were to start to be phased out – already in bourgeois times it was estimated that it would start happening around 2020 – they would be replaced by ten new reactors, which would be built on entirely private initiative. It was politics. It is only to be noted that very few assessors today believe that this will happen under the conditions laid down in the Riksdag, i.e. without subsidies and without state guarantees. This means that in the short term we are in a very good position. We have large surpluses of electricity. It is certainly not unfamiliar to the honourable Member that we had the largest electricity export ever in Sweden last year. We have historically low prices, and of course they vary over the year depending on how weather and other things are. Demand for electricity in Sweden varies greatly. During a normal summer, demand is somewhere around 13 000 – 14 000 megawatts while the winter power requirement, especially if it is a cold period, goes up to between 26 000 and 27 000 megawatts. Then, of course, prices also vary. However, even in periods when prices went up, they were still significantly lower than other cold periods, for example in 2010 and 2011. The differences between the price areas were greatest in 2012, when they were introduced by the previous government. At that time, both prices were higher and the differences between electricity price areas in the north and the south were much greater, between 1 and 4. Since then we have had differences but at a very low level. My ambition is that we in Sweden should be able to supply our citizens and industries with electricity in the long term, but in such a way that we do not have bottlenecks in the transmission system so that we need to have electricity areas. I think we can fully agree in this Parliament that basically this is nothing that we wanted to do. Nor do I think that the previous bourgeois government did so with pleasure, but it did so after a dialogue with the European Commission following a notification from one of our neighbours, namely Denmark. Then what are we supposed to do? We have appointed an Energy Commission to work together with all parties in the Riksdag to develop a long-term sustainable energy policy. After all, investments in the energy sector last 20 to 30 years, and then it is not enough to put forward a policy for just four years. If we are to achieve these long-term conditions, so that we can have stability in the supply of electricity for our citizens and industries, we all need to be prepared to cooperate and ensure that policies cross-border.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-243	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the intention that both businesses and households should have access to electricity! With regard to the Alliance's energy settlement, I do not think there was anything wrong with the ambition to build ten new reactors. Unfortunately, you could not keep up for various reasons that we do not have time to clear out now with limited speaking time. The Minister also mentioned the division of the country into electricity price areas, which was certainly the reason for the high and rising energy prices in southern Sweden. But the problems were founded much earlier, namely in 1999 and 2005 when the then Social Democratic government decided to close the two fully functioning reactors in Barsebäck. I remember it well. Barsebäck is located in my own municipality of Kävlinge. The closure was regarded as a disaster both for the locality and for the electricity supply in Skåne. The then municipal councillor, respected social democrat, went to Stockholm and tried in vain to appeal to Göran Persson not to endanger jobs and contribute to the destruction of enormous economic values. The closure of Barsebäck also caused indirect emissions. According to SMHI, the increased use of Danish coal power increased emissions in the form of, for example, 1 700 kilos of extra sulphur, 860 kilos of extra nitrogen oxides and 560 000 kilos of carbon dioxide – enormous values! I dare to say that it is political decisions that are behind today's problems and not the market. When the Minister writes in his reply that he does not want to intervene in the market, it sounds good, at least for us with liberal values. In practice, however, the electricity market is not a free market; it is a market that is heavily governed by political decisions – unfortunately less thought-out ones, at least in recent times. The Minister for Energy now has the opportunity to change it pending the completion of the South West Link. So why not assign Swedish grids to ensure the transfer of a minimum capacity between electricity price areas in order to reduce the risk of price differences between them? Then I fear that the Southwest link will not be the long-term solution that we would all like. When the Nordbalt cable, which is based on southern Sweden, is ready, we will probably again have problems in Skåne, as this cable will mostly be used to export electricity from Sweden.
i-AEZQNsPvxTmfLewQzpF1RH	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Boriana Åberg, for the question! There is really only one solution to this, as I think Mr Åberg is also aware, and that is to do something about these bottlenecks that exist in the system. It was also the answer given by the previous bourgeois government when these questions were asked in the Riksdag, although not by Boriana Åberg, but by some other members of the Swedish Parliament. This is a debate that has been going on for a while. But the fact is that Boriana Åberg has not participated in this discussion, but it is only now. I welcome the commitment; that is good. I just hope that this is about the issue and not about which government is sitting right now. Nevertheless, I choose to interpret it positively, that it is a commitment to the substance of the matter, which I welcome. However, I must say that the honourable Member's position is not based on facts. She says that the problems were 1999-2005. If we look at the facts about what has happened from 2005 to 2015, in the last ten years, we can note that despite these shutdowns of nuclear reactors, to which the honourable Member relates, Sweden has 20 terawatt hours more power generation and 10 terawatt hours less use because we have an ongoing energy efficiency both in our industry and in our households. That's a good thing. This is what has meant that Sweden has gone from being a net importer of electricity to becoming one of Europe's largest electricity exporters. Last year, 2015, it was also a record 23 terawatt hours of electricity, especially in our eastern neighbour Finland. That's what the facts look like. In the short term we have low prices and large electricity surpluses. However, I agree with the honourable Member that we have major challenges with regard to electricity areas. As I said, I believe that the solution there is to continue to expand capacity and thus get rid of the bottlenecks and thus not have the European Commission hanging over us with demands for electricity distribution. The second is that, of course, we need to have an answer to what we are doing on the day that nuclear power as a whole falls to technology or economic, that is, market forces. We have been told that four reactors will be phased out by 2020. All the assessors, both the authorities and other experts, make the assessment that we can do it because we have large surpluses. It is clear, however, that this is not enough in response, but we also need to develop an energy policy which, in all circumstances, both the coldest winter weeks and the rest of the year, provides electricity and heat to our citizens. My ambition is a Sweden with very good conditions to generate electricity via water, via forest, via wind etc. and that we should also be a net exporter of electricity in the long term. We have such conditions. But what I think is required is that this House, together with the government, can now agree on what this should be like. If we do not achieve these long-term conditions, the period with very few investments, even zero investments, risks continuing. This could put us in a situation that is rather more difficult than what we have today. That's not where we're going, because we have far too good a chance to do it. I will conclude, as in the previous speech, by saying that I believe that this can only be done by working together to establish these very long-term conditions. For there is no government, whether it is a majority government or a minority government, that can provide information that goes beyond the term of office. The energy sector needs much longer anticipation.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-260	Madam President, I would like I can assure the Minister for Energy that I was very committed to this issue already during the last parliamentary term. But when you have your own government sitting in Rosenbad, you have other channels to pursue the issues than in debates in this House. It is gratifying that the Minister for Energy intends to follow closely the issue of the profitability of nuclear power and that he wants to achieve a broad consensus in Parliament. I wish, however, that the Minister for Energy was more in favour of nuclear power and shared the position of the President of IF Metall that we should invest in next generation nuclear power and abolish the impact tax. There is a saying that says something like: You should hope for the best but be prepared for the worst. The Minister for Energy can handle the first part perfectly. His optimism cannot be missed when he talks about increased nuclear power production and savings in energy use. However, I remain a little concerned about the second part. What happens when nuclear power, which currently accounts for about 40% of Sweden's energy supply, has to be phased out prematurely? I would like a more specific answer. What does the government want?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-265	Madam President, I would like I realise that, as a member of the government, they have completely different channels. Then it should also be quite clear to the honourable Member that the previous government gave exactly the same answers on the electricity price areas as the current government, for the simple reason that this is not something that we have pushed forward politically in Sweden. This came as a request from the European Commission after a notification from Denmark. That is why, step by step, we need to extend the bottlenecks so that we can remove this in the long term. I think that attitude has quite broad support in the Riksdag. But we're not there yet, and that's why we need them now. I'm an optimistic person. I believe well and positively in this country. We have repeatedly shown that when we gather, we are capable of facing major challenges. What I describe about surpluses is a historical fact. Since 2005, we have increased production in Sweden by 20 terawatt hours and reduced use by 10 terawatt hours, giving a net of 30 terawatt hours. That is what has led us to move from being an importer to being an exporter of electricity. I am also optimistic that we are in a good position. But just because we have good conditions doesn't mean that it will. It does not help with great optimism, but we must also step by step create the right conditions for the market to make investments. I have come to the conclusion that this can only happen if we develop long-term conditions that apply not only to one term of office but perhaps to five six terms of office. Then everyone who follows the policy realises that this can only happen if there is a cross-block. That is why we have set up an Energy Commission and for talks. But then there must not be sacred cows, but we must step by step ensure that these concerns are pragmatically resolved so that Sweden can also stand strong in the future in terms of energy supply.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-272	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked the Minister for Education how the Government's budget gives the Stockholmers more educated preschool teachers and whether the Minister for Education thinks it reasonable that the municipalities themselves should bear the costs of further training of preschool teachers. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Universities and higher education institutions themselves have the primary responsibility for planning and dimensioning their educations. The planning of the educational offering should be based on students' demand and labour market needs, among other things. The Government considers it important that there is a well-functioning dialogue and interaction with the labour market and future employers in this work. However, given the high shortage of university-trained labour in, among others, the teaching profession, there has been reason for the government to specifically point out certain training courses that need to be expanded. One such education is for preschool teachers.
i-QfmsTGMv23RwUDkeiSRHNf	With the Government's proposal, the expansion amounts to a corresponding 7 925 new training places in 2016. It then increases to the equivalent of 14 600 new training places in 2019. Within the framework of this initiative, pre-school education is extended with 800 beginners. Of these, 60 beginners have been awarded Stockholm University and 50 beginners have been awarded Södertörn University. The pre-school educations at Uppsala University and Mälardalen University are also extended with 60 and 40 beginners. It is worth bearing in mind that Stockholm will also benefit from the places awarded to higher education institutions in other parts of the country because Stockholm, with its attractiveness, draws skills from all over the country. According to the Education Act, it is primarily the principal who is responsible for giving staff at preschools and schools the opportunity to develop their skills. Nevertheless, in specific cases, there may be reasons to encourage the principals to invest in the skills development of their staff through various actions. One such example was the so-called Preschool Lift, which lasted until 2015 and aimed at developing the skills of preschool staff in connection with the clarification of the preschool's educational assignments in the curriculum. The Swedish model means that we will compete by investing in knowledge and competence, not with low wages. In order to succeed, we must reverse the negative development of knowledge in Swedish schools. Therefore, the government has chosen to invest in teacher and pre-school education and in school and preschool.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-280	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. There are many factors that affect the quality of a preschool. One of the most important is the availability of well-trained staff. Preschoolers have an important role in a preschool to ensure that preschools live up to the curriculum that exists for preschools. In Stockholm there is an acute shortage of educational preschool teachers. In the county, on average, 28 per cent of pre-school staff have a pre-school teacher's degree, i.e. not even one in three employees. This compares with the average for the whole country, which is 43%. Stockholm has a unique location, and the competition for preschool teachers is tough. This means that many municipalities offer each other wages in order to attract preschool teachers. As a result, these municipalities will have increased costs for preschools. These are municipalities that are already having a tough time in terms of expanding pre-school education to a sufficient extent to cope with the move-in. The Government's 2015 Spring Change Budget chose to reallocate funds previously set aside in the 2015 Alliance Budget. The post office for Stockholm University stands out because the grant decreased by about SEK 20 million. Therefore, they had to pull the handbrake and reduce the number of places planned for the pre-trainer training. They had planned to increase the number of seats by an additional 129 based on the great interest in education and the need in the region, but they had to reduce it to 60 places. Although the government in the 2016 budget has again chosen to invest in new places in pre-school education, Stockholm University has not been compensated for the earlier reduction that the university had to make. Madam President, I would like The Minister points out that the Stockholm region is so attractive that the region can benefit from training places for preschool teachers located in other parts of the country. Although this is not the area of the Government, it is widely known that it is difficult to find a place to live in Stockholm. We have not yet seen any proposals from the government for more affordable housing to be built in Stockholm. Living in Stockholm is expensive, and it is difficult to find a place to live. It is not possible to believe that moving in preschool teachers automatically solves the problem. Then the relationship between the proportion of preschool teachers in Stockholm and the rest of the country should not be as it is today. Equivalence is a concept that not least the government uses extensively in the school debate. We all agree that equal access to high-quality preschools and schools is important. If the Government agrees with the Moderates that preschool teachers are an important guarantor of the quality of preschools, my question is: Does the Government not think that children in Stockholm have the same right to a high-quality preschool as children in other parts of the country?
i-3VC7AatsoMipCPw97YBbgc	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus. As I said, housing policy is not within my remit. When it comes to the possibility of attracting students, it is a problem that they have created such a large housing shortage in Stockholm and its crane municipalities. We are expanding the pre-school education and providing new places. There is no reduction in new places at all, but there is an increase. All higher education institutions and universities will have more university places in the coming years. Our increase is considerably greater than that proposed by the Alliance. But we are making a different distribution, because we must also take into account the other shortages that exist. In the Stockholm region, we are expanding not least in health care and health education, which was not included in the Alliance's draft budget. That's where we build up 300 new places. These care training places do not belong to the Stockholm University, because it is Karolinska in the Nstitute that stands for them. On the total, the expansion increases significantly – all over the country it increases by 21 per cent. For Stockholm University, our expansion means that they will receive 750 new training places during this term of office. In total, all Stockholm University will receive 2,500 new training places. There are 280 more than the Alliance budget for the Stockholm region. We have, however, made a different distribution. We have also taken into account the lack of jobs in health care, and there you will owe the answer, Maria Stockhaus. How are you going to handle the midwives and the specialist nurses? It wasn't in your plan. As I said, it was good that our budgets went through so that we could have a more reasonable distribution of training needs. Not all were fixed places, but there were so - called free places. It is important to remember that Stockholm University was granted free resources equivalent to 240 full-year students. These could have been used for the expansion of pre-school education, but they did not choose to do so. I believe that we agree that we have major shortcomings in terms of both teachers and preschool teachers and health professionals. As has been said, the responsibility for dimensioning education lies mainly with the higher education institutions. This needs to be done in closer collaboration with the principals and future employers, as well as in the Stockholm region. I will do everything I can to ensure that this collaboration will work much better in the future so that you can find the right dimensioning. It works well in other parts of the country, but there is more to do when it comes to the Stockholm region. This is how we will ensure that the long-term supply of expertise in all parts of Sweden.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-299	Mr President, I would like to Now the interpellation did not apply to training places in general but specifically to pre-schooler training places and the Stockholm area. As has been said, the Stockholm region's need for several preschool teachers is acute. Nevertheless, the government chooses not to ensure that Stockholm University can offer places corresponding to the interest that exists for the pre-school education. In Umeå municipality, the proportion of preschool teachers is 58 per cent. In Karlstad it is 67 per cent and in Borås 54 per cent. I would like to remind you that Stockholm is at 28%. All these higher education institutions receive a substantial increase in the number of places on pre-school education. Equivalence does not seem important to the government when it comes to Stockholm. I still wonder: Are children in Stockholm not worth a good preschool on the same terms as in the rest of the country? Why should they and their parents have to settle for a preschool that does not have enough well-trained staff? It is crucial how many places there are in pre-school education in Stockholm. Given the unique position of the Stockholm region in terms of the proportion of preschool teachers in preschool activities in all Stockholm County municipalities, it is strange that it does not choose to make a stronger priority when it comes to Stockholm University. What is the real reason why the government is redeploying funds from Stockholm to smaller, regional colleges and universities in municipalities where they have a higher proportion of preschool teachers? Is it the case that the children in Stockholm have to stand back because the government has to meet the wishes of social democratic councillors around the country? Can the children in Stockholm stand back for the government's regional policy? Many municipalities in Stockholm spend money on further education of child care workers for preschool teachers, a desperate effort to try to compensate for the lack of training places in the region. Does the Minister think it reasonable for municipalities to have to take responsibility in this way? I think that parents and children in Stockholm County deserve a better answer than that it solves itself because Stockholm is attractive to move to. The quality of Stockholm preschools is sacrificed for the government's regional policy. I wonder if the Government thinks this is reasonable.
i-HPye1oxDuCP1k4fMcnXJ38	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Maria Stockhaus! As I said, we distribute more places on the total to the Stockholm region. Not all of these are earmarked, but there are free places. Stockholm University was awarded 240 free seats which, if the collaboration between the principals and Stockholm University had worked better, could have been used, for example, to extend the pre-school education. As has been said, it is important to point out that it is not the parliament or the government that does the dimensioning. We see that, when there is a shortage, there may be reason to add additional places, both earmarked and free. We have distributed the sites across the country, taking into account the need for, demand for and the opportunity to expand while maintaining quality, because it is important that there is a proper supply of, for example, training on the ground, which is to be done precisely in collaboration with the principals. If there was now an opportunity to expand 129 places, why did Stockholm University not take the 240 free places or parts of them to this? There must have been more to it than that. As I said, it is not we who are dimensioning, but it is done out at our universities according to the students' demand but also according to the needs of the labour market. What I think is needed in this region for there to be a better dimensioning in the future is strengthened collaboration between the principals and universities. This is also what our special investigator Lars Haikola points out will be needed if we are to cope with the dimensioning of the important teacher and health care programmes. It does not happen through detailed control from here or from the Government Office, but by ensuring that the resources we have are used to meet the needs that exist. In this case, cooperation also needs to be strengthened in this region.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-313	Mr President, I would like to The shortage is still the biggest in Stockholm, and yet they choose to reduce the increase in places in Stockholm from 129 to 60. According to the information I received from the university, they were fully prepared to take the 129. However, they received the signal that they did not receive the money and had to cut down to 60. In addition to disadvantageing the Stockholm region when it comes to pre-school education, the government's budget has also chosen to remove money for the pre-school lift. It's for the whole country. It is an educational initiative for preschool teachers who have been appreciated and, compared with many other teacher lifts, used almost 100 percent. One might wonder why one chooses to stop such a successful training effort for preschool teachers, which would benefit the whole country and not least Stockholm. The new teacher wage initiative has excluded preschool teachers who work with smaller, independent principals who only have preschool. I haven't looked closely at where these principals are, but I know since my years as municipal councillor that in Stockholm County there are many smaller, independent actors on the preschool side, not least parental cooperatives whose preschool teachers don't get the opportunity to take part in the teacher's salary initiative. Sometimes you can ask yourself what the government has against Stockholm and preschool teachers.
i-Mjt2JUcRJdc5q2wPvDVvgQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus. Like I said, no one's pulled down. We have also expanded the locations to the Stockholm region. We have increased them more than in the proposal contained in the Alliance's budget. In total, there are 280 more seats with our budget than with the Alliance's budget. Then we have made a different distribution of the earmarked sites, but there are also free places available that could have been used. Again, it is extremely important that we have access to high-quality higher education throughout the country and that we are able to cope with the supply of skills, not least in health care and education. Here we have a great challenge. So far we have not been able to do this dimensioning, and one of the points made is that cooperation must be strengthened in order for the dimensioning to work in the future. Here, employers have a huge responsibility. They also have a great responsibility in terms of skills development. I also think the preschool lift was good. But it was a temporary effort in connection with strengthening and changing the preschool curriculum. Such things will certainly also be done in the future. But the great responsibility for the competence development of their staff lies with the employer and will do so. Then our higher education institutions will make sure to measure it. Preschools and pre-schoolers are included in the Teacher Salary Lift. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I am pleased that the Moderates have retreated from distancing themselves from the Teacher Salary Lift. It is a very important task and a very important reform to increase the performance of primary and secondary schools.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-322	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked the Minister for Climate and Environment and the Deputy Prime Minister what the Minister intends to do in order for Swedish nuclear safety to continue to be supported by qualified academic knowledge production in Sweden. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Research in nuclear technology is important not least in order to maintain high competence in Sweden for the operation of the Swedish nuclear power plants but also because Swedish nuclear technology research is of high quality in international comparison. State funding for nuclear research has increased in recent years. The Swedish Research Council has received increased funding from 2009 for research on new nuclear technology to secure qualified competence in the field of, among other things, maintaining safety competence at the highest level. They also have funds for Swedish researchers and doctoral students to have access to French research laboratories for research and joint development of research projects at research reactors in France. The radiation safety authority has had the same level of provisions since 2011. In addition to its regular research budget, the Royal Institute of Technology has received special funding for collaboration with France to give Swedish students access to French educational and research reactors. These provisions were made during the previous government which thus considered this to be an appropriate level of public research funding for Sweden to be supported by qualified academic knowledge in nuclear technology and nuclear safety. We have allowed all these efforts to continue at an unchanged level because we make the same assessment as regards the scope of the research.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-327	Mr. Talmman! Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is true that Sweden has a high quality of nuclear research. It has been built up for a very long time. But it is certainly a matter of concern that this competence and research is now increasingly moving abroad to countries that have more long-term and offensive efforts on nuclear power. Mr President, I would like to Thus, only in recent weeks could it be read in the newspapers that Professor Christian Ekberg at Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg now intends to move to Australia where he believes there is a great interest in what is commonly called fourth generation nuclear power. We have also been able to learn that Professor Janne Wallenius at the Royal Institute of Technology intends to move his business to Canada where there is an interest in small-scale nuclear power. We can also note that trade unions in the country are expressing serious concern about the lack of research resources in the nuclear field. Both the Chairman of IF Metall and the Chairman of LO Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson have criticised this fact. It also comes exactly the same criticism from Chalmers Professor Arne Håkansson. We can also read that the Radiation Safety Authority is now concerned about the work situation at both Oskarshamn's and Ringhal's nuclear power plants. It is now tightening up the inspection and increasing its presence because it is afraid that the concerns of its staff for the future may lead to a brain drain. Only last year before the research bill, the Ministry of Education requested a report from the Radiation Safety Authority on how to look at the situation regarding nuclear research. The Radiation Safety Authority also notes that the situation is serious and that, under the Nuclear Safety Convention and the EU's complementary Nuclear Safety Directive, Sweden has an obligation to ensure the training of nuclear safety personnel in nuclear installations. The picture provided by the Government of continued efforts on this type of research cannot be really recognized in SSM's report. There it is written that there has already been a phasing-out of SKB's, Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management, support for transmutation research, which in 2011 was about SEK 7 million. The Swedish Research Council also financed a generation-four project that was awarded SEK 36 million in four years. This project is now completed. So far, it is said, this has been partly compensated by the support the Swedish Research Council has given to doctoral students in accordance with the Swedish-French agreement. But this agreement, Mr President, expires at the end of 2017, that is to say in just under two years' time. A wide range of recommendations are made on strengthening research. Mr President, I would like to It is important that the government takes these issues seriously. If we cannot retain the competence, Sweden may be forced to close further nuclear power plants, even though we may not want to, in 10 or 15 years' time. I assume that the Government is as keen as I am to maintain freedom of action on this point.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-335	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Allan Widman, for that statement. I don't have much to add. It is true that no State resources have been reduced. On the other hand, there are some temporary projects that are about to expire. But it's not the same thing as a cutback. The fixed resources available will continue to exist. It is also quite right that business investment in this has been reduced. This, of course, reduces the overall volume of research. But we have no ambition to reduce state research funds. I know that there is concern that there is a decrease in interest in education in these subjects in our country and that there is concern about the supply of skills in the long term. This is the case in many areas. We would like to see us continue to maintain the skills we have. However, we find it difficult to control industrial investment, but we have the research funds that we have. We do not intend to reduce them in any way. We are taking other initiatives relating to the long-term transition to a sustainable energy supply. We also participate in something called Mission Innovation together with other states to really make sure that research and knowledge development but also innovation progresses in more areas. On the whole, we are stepping up our efforts. But when it comes to this particular research, we are at the same level as the previous government.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-341	Mr President, I would like to Now the Government says that when the projects expire, there will be less money for nuclear research. It is precisely this fact that worries me when I read the Radiation Safety Authority's report. It states on a point-by-point basis that projects are or have already been phased out. It proposes a wide range of measures to address the very urgent situation that has arisen. They want an additional SEK 15 million per year to support the universities so that they do not simply shut down their nuclear programmes. At Chalmers, there are today half a dozen students on the nuclear programme, and a threat of closure is, to say the least, imminent. It also wants the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority to consider becoming a partner in the Swedish Nuclear Centre. There is concern about the experimental infrastructure. Investments are needed in, for example, the fuel rig at the reactor technology department at KTH. If these investments do not take place, the whole department may have to be closed down. It also wants to invest in research into future reactors. As someone put it, Mr President, it is difficult to doctorate on technology that has already been doctorated a number of times. Of course, we should worry about the lack of skills in preschool. However, as chairman of the Committee on Defence, a committee responsible for nuclear safety, I would like to say that I am equally concerned about the lack of competence in this area. At the end of his speech, the Government approached a little bit what is at the heart of the matter, namely that the current government does not see much future in the nuclear industry. With the price trend and the economic crisis that has been in industry in recent years, it is clear that it is easy to conclude that we do not need nuclear power in the future to create environmentally friendly electricity. Mr President, I would like to We know what the situation is today, but we know very little about the situation in ten years from now. Therefore, I would like to ask my question once again: does the Government and the Government believe that maintaining freedom of action in this area is important for Sweden?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-348	Mr President, I would like to I thank Allan Widman for this. The question of the development of energy supply is left to the Minister for Energy. I think that a little while ago it was a debate just about what it looks like in the longer term. What lies within my remit is to ensure that we have competence, both in terms of research competence and education, for this sector. It's really important to the government. It is not the case that no project that is now due has the opportunity to apply for new funding. With regard to the VR-funded project at Chalmers on nuclear fuel that is now completed, you have the opportunity to apply for funds for further development of it. The Swedish Research Council allocates SEK 7 million per year during the next five-year period but can grant an additional SEK 15 million. So there is money to be applied for in order to carry out this research. Unfortunately, the price level and reduced profitability have affected the industry's interest in investing in R & D. As I said, it affects the total volume of research. Based on previous investments, the Swedish Research Council has assessed that we are now at a reasonable level when it comes to state funding. However, if volumes of private investment continue to decline, it is clear that a re-assessment may be necessary to maintain competence in this area. When it comes to educational interest, it is difficult to influence if students do not apply to a particular area. But I have no intention of phasing this out in any way, but I want it to continue to be conducted both in this area of high-quality research and education. That is the government's ambition.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-354	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the history of nuclear research in Sweden has been characterised by much of the political decisions of the 1980s. Shortly after the referendum on nuclear power, we saw a marked decline in interest in seeking these specialities and these nuclear programmes. As the 2010 phase-out year approached, we saw exactly the same thing. At this time, however, industry did not have the economic crisis that it is experiencing today, and it chose, together with the state, to step in and strengthen research in order to maintain just the freedom of action on nuclear power over time. Now there is no similar interest on the part of industry. It is therefore a delicate matter for the government to closely monitor developments in this area. It is perhaps easy for the Government to say that when it comes to the general prospects of nuclear power in Sweden it is Ibrahim Baylan's area and not hers that is about research. I can tell you that's not my area either. My area is nuclear safety. But this well describes how all these policies and responsibilities are interrelated and interdependent. If there is not a living nuclear power industry in Sweden, there will soon be insufficient nuclear safety. This is all connected. Mr President, I would like to If nothing does not happen on this point, I am afraid that in ten years' time, whether Sweden wants to maintain nuclear power or not, it may become so that we lack the competence to push our reactors further. It is questionable both from the point of view of supply and from the point of view of security policy.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-358	Mr President, I would like to I and the government have not cut back on any funding for research in this area, nor in the field of education. It is important for me to say that there is no policy in this. Our expert authorities, such as the Swedish Research Council, have made the assessment that it is this level that is needed to maintain the competence in basic research. As I said, it is difficult to influence students' demand. I believe that it is not only the domestic political debate in Sweden that is affecting, but also international events like Germany's decision on nuclear decommissioning and Japan after Fukushima. I think that's just as important. As Allan Widman began by saying, all research and education is an international activity in nature. This is also affected by what is happening in the world around us. It also enables researchers to move internationally. I will, of course, closely monitor what this looks like, as private investment in this area is being reduced, in order to ensure that we continue to have competence in both research and education.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-362	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the 700-megahertz band is auctioned well, which results in the best possible effect for the end customer and what measures I intend to take to ensure good conditions for competition within the 700-megahertz band. The Government's focus is that the implementation of the decision on terrestrial TV broadcasting space should continue, so that the evacuation of the 700-megahertz band can take place on time and in as smooth a way as possible for the actors affected. Access to mobile communications is today a prerequisite for living, operating and operating businesses throughout the country. A well-developed mobile infrastructure is important to meet people's desire to use telephony and broadband even outside urban areas and to facilitate entrepreneurship and job creation across the country. The state has an important role in creating good conditions for commercial expansion to continue, including through a well-functioning market and by promoting efficient frequency use as well as regional and local dialogue. The release of the 700-megahertz band for mobile communications services is likely to contribute to creating good conditions for further deployment and access to such services. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) is responsible, among other things, for ensuring that the possibilities for radio communications and other uses of radio waves are exploited effectively and to promote effective competition and is the authority that investigates questions regarding the limitation of the number of permits within a frequency range. With regard to the issue of good competitive conditions, the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority shall take into account the overall use of spectrum when making its decisions. This means that the Authority looks at all frequencies with similar characteristics when assessing the competitive situation. According to the Electronic Communications Act, the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority, LEK, is responsible for the efficient use of frequencies and the promotion of effective competition. As Erik Ottoson also points out, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has good experience of auctioning procedures, and I have confidence that the agency will carry out its tasks in a good way.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-370	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This with frequencies and frequency spectrum is a technically reasonably complex issue. To clarify why this is important, I would like to tell you that different frequencies are different for different applications. Some frequencies are good at carrying radio waves over long distances. Other frequencies are better at getting through structures like buildings. Different frequencies also have slightly different conditions for transferring large amounts of information and data. The 700-megahertz band is very valuable. It enables the transfer of large amounts of data, and it enables very high quality service to the end customer. That is why the issue of auctioning on this frequency band is very important, especially for end-users. This is probably the band that will be used to establish 5G telephony, i.e. data transmission that far exceeds what we today call the 4G band. There are breathtaking amounts of data that will be able to be transmitted to the end customer in this way. That is why this is extremely important. I fully understand that the Government does not go into the individual auction to make sure that the details – the screws and nuts in the auction – look exactly as you would like. I also fully understand that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has a general mission to look at the competitive situation in the telecoms market. However, I have done a little research and looked in the regulation letter for the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. I was unable to find a government directive to take account of the competitive situation in the telecommunications market. I believe that there is reason to be a little self-critical on our part, too, and that the Government should take this into account when drafting future regulatory letters. While taking into account the use of other frequency bands for new auctions, this does not mean that overall it will be fair. It can be good competition in other bands that are not at all as attractive as the 700-megahertz band, and if you say that competition in the air is good then it does not mean that we have managed to create a good competitive situation that delivers a good, cheap and efficient service to the end customer in this very interesting band. After all, it will be the new 5G technology that will dominate the 700 band, and then it will be very attractive, and if you are to squeeze the price of this new service, it will require more than one or two operators to provide it. As the auction today is designed, if I have understood correctly, no more than two operators in this frequency band and, by extension, in 5G technology are guaranteed. It can have very distortive effects on the market. Although I understand the situation of the Government and that he does not want to enter into the individual auction, I would nevertheless like to emphasise the seriousness of this. Is there anything in regulatory letters or other control systems that the Government might consider applying here?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-377	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for this extremely important question! It is a question of the future for Sweden. If we are to continue to be world class in terms of the use of telecommunications and broadband services, and if our society is to be the society in the world that best exploits the opportunities of digitalisation, it is important that the 700-megahertz band is used in the most optimal way. I share Erik Ottoson's point of view on this issue. There is no ideological dividing line on this issue. I think that Erik Ottoson is very clear about what this frequency space will be used for. Of course, if there were concerns that competition would be eliminated, I would also share that concern. Now there is no indication of that, and we are watching this very closely. It is in the interest of the government and the state that operators who will gain the allocation of frequency space actually act in such a way, both before and after the allocation, that it will be the best possible for the end customer and society at large. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is not a new authority. It's an authority that has a lot of experts. As I understand it, during the one-and-a-half years I have been Minister of Information Technology, the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency has performed its duties well during the previous terms of office. I have not received any signals that would cause me to worry now. But if Erik Ottoson has concrete points of view, I am of course prepared to take them with me to find out how we can ensure that the competitive situation that I think has served Sweden well should continue in the future. When I meet my IT ministers in the world – most recently at the IT and telecoms fair in Barcelona, where I was privileged to meet more than ten IT ministers from different parts of the world, both from countries in our neighbourhood and from far away – it is one thing they perceive as our strength in Sweden, namely that competition has been maintained thanks to an independent authority, where politicians do not dictate details. That is also what Erik Ottoson said. It is the fact that we stick to such a regulatory framework that has made us successful in the competitive situation. Customers, end-users and businesses have been able to benefit from this. If I saw the slightest sign that this would not be the case, I would, of course, deal with this issue as a minister of state can deal with it against an independent authority.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-383	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the willing follow-up response! There are some concrete things that should be addressed. We can look at the 800 band auction, i.e. the 700 band band and share many of the technical characteristics of the 700 band. That auction, which has already been conducted in an exemplary manner, was designed in such a way as to guarantee access to at least three operators to any part of the frequency band. As the Government describes, this is an auction that has been watched from other countries and which has received much praise. Many have looked at it with envy, as well as at the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's work with a competitively neutral telecommunications market in Sweden. We are a role model for many here, and we must safeguard that position. Now it has gone from guaranteeing allocation in the 800-band auction to three operators to now only guaranteeing allocation to two operators. Then you may have taken a step back. If I am correctly informed, this means that a very strong buyer can get a very large proportion of the band without any coverage requirement for that part. And the other operator gets a much smaller part of the frequency band, but the whole part of the auction is subject to frequency requirements – for that reason it may also be a lower price. In the worst case, we then have an operator who has a very large part with very favourable conditions, at a high price that the strong buyer can afford to pay, which it can then partially and partly possibly sell on second hand to other operators. Then we have an actor who does not have the same purchasing power but who, on the other hand, has a huge responsibility to arrange coverage in our elongated and sparsely populated country. This is possibly a cloud of concern. If you have a supplier, you have a monopoly. If you have two, you may have an oligopoly. If you have three, you have something that is beginning to look like a market. In this case, we do not guarantee anything that is beginning to resemble a market, but something that borders on an oligopoly. It is in this that the concern on my part, after talking to market operators, lies. Of course, the 700-megahertz band is not all of a blessing for the telecommunications market and for the 5G network, but it is a very important element. That is why it is important for me and the Government to have this discussion. Different views have been expressed by market operators on how this could be better done. The auction, which was around the 800-megahertz band, is mainly used as a good role model. It can therefore be regretted that the 700-megahertz band has been auctioned a step backwards and that the same free and open competition is not guaranteed. There is no intrinsic value in having few actors. On the other hand, there is an intrinsic value in perhaps having a little more actors. Therefore, it would perhaps be useful to signal in some form of regulatory letter, perhaps a supplementary regulatory letter, that the competitive situation in the frequency bands is crucial for a good end-user service.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-391	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for sneezing into this relatively complicated matter! It is probably so important, because it determines what each of us encounters when we turn on our phones, tablets and computers and need contact with the internet and with the social services that are there. It's a matter of connection to the authorities. It's about when we start a business and when we actually live our lives. Today, the Internet is not something that is separate and separate, but it is part of the reality for everyone in Sweden living people. That is why I think this discussion is important, and Erik Ottoson raises this issue in an exemplary way. For the record, however, I would like to say something. In the second part, when Erik Ottoson described the auction that was coming he happened to say the 800-megahertz band, I thought I heard. I say this so that there is no error in the Minutes, because it is the 700-megahertz band that we have before us. In the first part of your speech you said the 800-megahertz band, and that was right then. Then there is the spectrum situation. It's hard to describe it if you don't have a white picture in front of you where you can draw how this spectrum thing works. Spectrum is a natural resource. It is finite, like almost all other natural resources. But there is a spectrum ceiling, and it allows to acquire a maximum amount of spectrum in the 700-megahertz band. It is not certain that any operator will manage to acquire so much spectrum within the band that the operator would reach that ceiling. In addition, technically, how much you are willing to pay for spectrum in that band is a decision that will be commercially balanced against the need and space that each operator considers defensible against its owners to actually manage. We know that in the bands currently used in the frequency space, it is not the case that the whole of those spaces are used by the operators. This is something that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is of course aware of. They were the ones who made the previous award, which both Erik Ottoson and I are satisfied with. The result is seen in Sweden. For example, as I said earlier, our fellow minister in Finland is jealous of how we have dealt with this issue. It is not on the ministers or on the government, but it is a single authority that can handle input but also achieve the goal that we in Sweden should continue to be world class when it comes to telephony and the internet. Of course, if any operator would have the ability to acquire a higher proportion of spectrum, it could potentially allow higher retail capacity for that particular operator's users. But here we are talking about the larger mobile bandwidth, which has not really been a problem in the previous allocation. Because according to the same reasoning as Erik Ottoson, perhaps four final assignments would be better than three. It's always a question of what our final effect is. But these comments have been fed into PTS – I know that. We have discussed this with the operators individually but also within the Broadband Forum. I continue to rely on the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to do this in accordance with the best possible outcome for Sweden.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-397	Mr President, I would like to Government! It is true that, from a competition perspective, it might be even better, as I said, to guarantee more than three allocations within such a valuable band. That's a little bit of what I want. As the Government is concerned, there is no intrinsic value in allowing in the structure of the auction even the possibility of such a negative outcome as I described earlier, as it actually looks now. If it is intended to ensure that the competitive situation is by far the best, it is probably a better way forward to have quite a variety of operators within the same frequency space, as is technically appropriate. If it is too divided, there will also be problems with frequency allocation and how best to solve this technically. It can cause technical problems as well. But we are a long way from this at the moment. What should also be remembered is that the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority is not just looking at competition. There is also a need to get money out properly for, so to speak, the frequency bands themselves. You have an interest in getting as good a bid as possible. Attractiveness in this is then that the operator should be able to meet its own needs for frequency, but it is also about the ability to push other operators onto the market. Just on the basis of the reasoning put forward by the Government itself regarding the marketability of this, there is a competitive advantage in buying unusable bands which, moreover, cannot be used by anyone else. In this way, one can strengthen one's competitive position. This is, of course, something that we want to avoid. Therefore, I believe that there is reason to include in the regulatory letter a requirement to ensure competition in the telecommunications market.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-402	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for the very important interpellation debate! The last thing Erik Ottoson said won't happen. However, it is very clear that both my government and previous governments have had and have a stated purpose in how frequencies are distributed. You can look at the auction of the 800-megahertz band, which generated a revenue of about SEK 200 billion. It's pretty big values that are up and running. It is difficult to speculate on what the 700-megahertz band will generate. But an important outcome of the previous auction was that one could allocate SEK 300 million to measures for improved coverage. This is something we benefit from, which businesses benefit from and which people, especially those living in rural areas, benefit from. In addition, it is not about PTS being something that is separate from the state or that it is a private player, but it is an actor that will serve Sweden and Sweden's population in the best possible way. So far, we have seen nothing that would indicate the opposite. At least I have not heard anything about it from Erik Ottoson, and that is not my view either. I have great confidence in PTS and how they have worked with the issue in the past. They are well-suited to work on this issue. If it turns out there's even the slightest doubt as to how this could land, we'll have to take it from there. There are no such signals, but it is still very important that Erik Ottoson follows this closely. I would like more people in this House to actually follow it, because this will affect our lives much more than many other issues that we debate and discuss, and very few know about it. You think it's a hygiene factor that has to work.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-406	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask has asked the Minister for Home Affairs when the government plans to present the national strategy for crime prevention and what concrete crime prevention measures the government plans to take in the near future. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Sweden is in many ways a safe country. Viewed to the entire population, security increases, and people's vulnerability to crime decreases. At the same time, we are seeing an alarming polarisation in society, where too many people still feel insecure and where the vulnerability to crime is unevenly divided between different groups and areas. This is where society must shoulder its responsibilities. The fact that we need a well-functioning judicial system that can prosecute the crimes committed is self-evident. But with the same strength that we are going to fight crime, we must also prevent the causes behind it. These are, on the one hand, broad and long-term welfare measures, such as increasing employment and raising learning outcomes in schools, and, on the other hand, measures to reduce the likelihood of crime being committed by making the crimes less profitable and more difficult to carry out. In this work, public actors have a great responsibility, but without non-profit forces, business and citizens we do not reach all the way. At national level, this has been a low priority for many years. The government therefore wants to see a new start for crime prevention, with clear national leadership. We started last year by commissioning the Crime Prevention Council to highlight where development needs are greatest and how national support for municipalities and other crime prevention actors could be strengthened. The recent report by Mr Brå shows that in most parts of the country there is close cooperation on crime prevention between the police and the municipality, and sometimes also with industry and volunteers. At the same time, the ability to take the right action varies based on local problem images. The average level of competence in municipalities therefore needs to be increased in order to create effective crime prevention work across the country. Cooperation between national authorities also needs to be developed. The government will now take measures to strengthen national coordination and develop support for various crime prevention actors. Among other things, we want to give Brå a clearer role as a driver in preventive work. Already in the 2016 budget, we have contributed an additional SEK 15 million to Brå's crime prevention activities and will continue to work to develop Brå's coordinating role in this area. As regards the situation in socially vulnerable areas, which Beatrice Ask mentions in her interpellation, we have commissioned Brå to identify, among other things, success factors and working methods for preventing and punishing crime and increasing security. Crime prevention and security-building work, however, are only a small part of the efforts needed in these areas. This requires, first and foremost, action outside the field of criminal justice policy. As Beatrice Ask mentions, the government will develop a new national crime prevention strategy. Such a strategy will cover many areas and cover both social and situational aspects of crime prevention. A comprehensive approach will make it clearer how important it is for all stakeholders to take responsibility for prevention. The aim is for it to be ready this year.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-414	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Justice. My intervention was addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs because he had spoken about a meeting he would have with representatives of the responsible authorities, employers and trade unions about the problems experienced by police, firemen and ambulance staff in certain areas. According to the article he had written, the call he had invited aimed to get a picture of how policemen, firefighters and ambulance staff experience the situation with threats, violence and a tougher societal climate, and reflect on the work done and continued. As I assume that the talks will land in some kind of result, it was natural to ask when the promised strategy for crime prevention would come, and I have now received an answer to that question: the aim is for the strategy to be completed this year. Given the major concerns that exist, I regret, of course, that it takes so long, because it is the case that a strategy of the kind that the government is working with may possibly contribute to a more intensive work to secure people's access to public services and the security that people at work need when saving lives. Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Justice suggests that crime prevention at national level has been a low priority for many years, something that the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government is now going to correct with a strategy. That is its better political rhetoric and not the truth. The report submitted by Brå, which is very interesting, also contains a description of national efforts from the 1990s onwards. By the mid-2010s, local councils had emerged in most of the country's municipalities, and the focus was on questions about what support was needed for the local crime prevention actors. The work was also expanded, and this is therefore under the alliance government, as the police were given the task of working out cooperation agreements with the municipalities. A new effort was also launched to respond to the need for better prevention of organised crime. Research reviews related to neighboring collaboration, camera surveillance and crime prevention, mentoring effects on relapses in crime and how better outdoor lighting can prevent crime. These were published. Based on the method of security hikes that started in Gothenburg, a national manual was also developed to use this. The Minister of Justice's description was therefore a little wrong, but it is good that this background is included, because what is now needed according to the survey that Brå is doing are measures to raise the minimum level of knowledge-based crime prevention work. There are activities in many places, but the systematic work is lacking and it is very uneven. There is also a need for more development and innovation," says Brå. Both content and quality of work must be developed. We want increased priority and coordination. Today, there is no legal obligation for municipalities to engage in crime prevention work, and in some places it is apparently very difficult to hear from decision-makers for this important work. My question to the Minister for Justice is against this background whether the government will clarify the municipalities' responsibility for carrying out crime prevention work and how it will ensure that the important cooperation between the municipality and the police will not lose momentum now that resources run out and there are many other major challenges.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-424	Mr President, I would like to We were interrupted in the middle of the interpellation of the adjournment of the group meetings. I will try to follow up on the questions that Beatrice Ask put to me in her first speech. The government's starting point is that we should fight the crimes and the causes of the crimes. Both must be done, not just some. The question of prevention is a high priority for this government in contrast, I would say, after all, to the former government. Beatrice Ask did not like the way I put it in the interpellation response because she believes that the previous government also took the matter seriously. Nevertheless, it is a fact that the previous national strategy against crime prevention dates back to 1996, 20 years ago. It was in Laila Freivald's time. During her eight years as Minister of Justice, Beatrice Ask did not take any initiatives to upgrade or upgrade the national crime prevention strategy. But we do. And that is the work that we have now begun in a number of ways. Among other things, it is the mission to Brå, which I described. There are SEK 15 million set aside. We will set up a special national coordinator to strengthen national leadership. I think there is a need for more government guidance. Beatrice Ask asked me about the responsibilities of the municipalities. I do not rule out the need to clarify the responsibilities of the municipalities. Today we are in a situation where we need to spread good examples in the country's municipalities. I hope Brå will contribute to that. I've done a lot myself. Last year I made visits to a number of municipalities to look at what the crime prevention work looks like. It was Malmö, Trollhättan, Norrtälje and Huddinge. We met representatives of the county boards in Norrbotten and Västerbotten. I also visited Holland, and I am on my way to the United States and New York to look at crime prevention. I have seen examples of crime prevention work in Holland, especially cooperation with the business community. We thought it would be the same theme when we visit New York later in the spring. The basis for us Social Democrats is that preventive work is best carried out when there is a fundamentally good development for welfare, that is to say, reducing inequalities and unemployment. We now see that things are actually moving in the right direction in our country. Unemployment is falling, growth is increasing, entrepreneurship is increasing. Let me give you a number. Since this government took office, the number of long-term unemployed has fallen by 20,000. It is important to continue to develop and to continue to narrow the gaps. This requires a distribution policy. That is the broad work. Then there is the justice system. It is about how the judicial system works preventively within its framework. This is, of course, about clearing up more crimes. That's where the last government failed. On the contrary, the proportion of solved crimes decreased during the time of the previous government. We must, of course, reverse this trend. It is also a question of preventing the recurrence of crime, that is to say, of ensuring that the Prison Service has such an activity that fewer fall back into crime again. Then there is local preventive work and the work of social services. This is how our policies look, i.e. more jobs, reduced gaps, general welfare and local broad cooperation. What is the policy of the Moderates? Is your solution that we should cut wages instead?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-435	Mr President, I would like to The question I asked was based on throwing stones at ambulance staff and destroying ambulances. It is about how civil protection is prevented from carrying out their work and a number of urgent problems that need to be addressed in different ways. Crime prevention can be many different things, and that is also why I said that I think it is good that we are told when the strategy that has been promised will come. Policies in all honour, but concrete measures are also needed to address problems. One cannot wait until unemployment is zero and believe that it solves the problem of criminal groups using young people to throw stones and behave against government officials. There is contempt and mistrust of the authorities in several of the vulnerable areas, which must be dealt with with with practical measures. I was in Nässjö the other week. One example of what is being done there is that the rescue services and the police are talking to young people who they know are engaged in activities that are not acceptable. They have thus squeezed down the amount of thefts of various kinds. That is how I think we need to work concretely. My question to the Minister of Justice before the stay was: Is the government prepared to clarify the municipalities' responsibility to participate in the crime prevention work? In Brå's account of what it looks like, which is a restoration of the Alliance's work in relation to what the Minister says, a description of shortcomings in Swedish society emerges in terms of the crime prevention work. Brå points out that it is difficult to get a hearing for the interventions in some municipalities. You want to change that. Another point that Mr Brå points out is that local crime prevention has stagnated to some extent. It has become unimaginative. They don't work knowledge-based. Not all types of crime are directly related to the general situation. In any case, there are some easier ways to overcome the problems. There, I think it is important to consider how to increase the level of knowledge in the issues locally and how to ensure the work. At the moderate party meeting, we took a stand because we want to see more active work in the municipalities. We have not come as far as I possibly want, namely that it should be a statutory requirement for municipalities to take responsibility for crime prevention. But we took a position that responsibility for the issues should be as close to the municipal management as possible in order for there to be muscle and mandate to act in collaboration with the police. There is now a reorganisation of the police where there is at least one positive signal, namely the appointment of municipal police officers. Brå points out that it will make it more important for more municipalities to have someone responsible for the coordination between local and local authorities, the police and civil society. When it breaks, it won't work. I believe that it is necessary, not least in a shorter perspective than the year we are to wait for a strategy, to take action. Stones are being thrown all the time, and more needs to be done in this area. It would be interesting to know whether the Minister of Justice has any idea of something concrete that can be done so that we can avoid some of the problems in the coming months.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-444	Mr President, I would like to The government inherited a situation that was deeply disturbing, as Beatrice Ask partly describes himself. It was a combination of a very high level of unemployment, above all a very high level of youth unemployment, and a firmly established and organised crime. That was the great failure of the old government, that is, the failure to fight crime and the reduction in the proportion of crime cleared and the failure of the social situation and unemployment. It's a breeding ground for recruitment into criminal gangs. Then you have to be able to look at both questions. It is about improving the social conditions in the areas we are talking about. In order to reverse the trend, the issue of unemployment, studies, educational opportunities and the general gaps are, in fact, absolutely crucial. That's where the old government failed. That is why I hope that we will manage this a little better, and what I see is that youth unemployment is now falling very quickly. That's very good. Growth is increasing, and we must, of course, ensure that it is maintained. If we do not, I believe that this development will be even more difficult. It is becoming even more difficult, I would say, to break the new recruitment to criminal gangs. Beatrice Ask asks whether I am prepared to clarify the responsibilities of the municipalities, and I said so in my speech. I am prepared to look at that question just as I understand that the Moderates are now doing. Right now we are in a situation where we are trying to spread the good examples, that is, what is now being done in the country's municipalities. Of course, I share the view that this work must be put as close as possible to the inhabitants of the municipality. I also share the view, of course, that the higher the municipal hierarchy of questions, the easier it is to have an impact on them. That's how it has worked in every place when I've been out and seen what it looks like in the country's municipalities. There's one thing you can't get away from. No matter how much we do with local coordination, with taking in business, with taking in non-profit forces and with the interaction between state and municipality, it comes to the same kind of social issues that you have to solve. That was really the meaning of the small question I asked last time in my previous speech. Now that I'm looking at what the Moderates' policy looks like--you're saying you're going to create more jobs and so--it goes all the way on the same theme that you ran on for eight years, that is, you're going to push down those who have the lowest wages and the lowest incomes. Then it was about unemployment insurance, health insurance and other things that you hunted and pressed down, so to speak. Now it's supposed to be about wages. Therefore, my simple question is this: if, from what I understand from what several bourgeois parties propose, we should have state-determined poor wages where we push down wages and incomes for a great many people – if we are going to go the American way, so to speak – what will that mean? What will it mean for the development of crime in a country to create wages that are so low that people cannot make a living? That is the question I ask and I think that Beatrice Ask can actually think about a little. I am convinced that we will not tackle this if we are unable to pursue a policy that holds society together. It is based on lower gaps, general well-being and, of course, increased growth – but also good labour market developments.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-450	Mr President, I would like to I'm against social problems. I would be prepared to abolish them immediately if it were as simple as it sounds to the Minister of Justice. I do not agree with the description of moderate politics, but I am familiar with the Social Democratic campaign Sveavägen has decided to conduct. What I think we need to talk about is the concrete problems we have with areas that have a very high level of crime. It is possible to take action, and it is not that the Social Democrats have inherited all the problems. In any case, if you have the power, you should want to do something. I believe, for example, that it is necessary to have more police officers out there among people. I believe that it is necessary to have effective social cooperation at local level that works in such a way that there are network groups, civilians and much more in order to increase security. I believe that we need more social intervention teams prepared to tackle young people who are entering very serious serious crime. I think we need to think about how we use camera surveillance to ensure security in certain areas. I also think that we need to think specifically about the situation of emergency personnel so that they can save lives in different areas. I think it is necessary to consider the division of responsibilities in relation to the prevention of crime between the various municipal authorities, the police and others. There are a number of issues that need to be addressed. It is also the case that we have many people who lack insight into what applies in Sweden. There is a great deal to do here because we have a large influx of refugees and others who sometimes contribute to conflicts because they are insecure, afraid and feel bad. This is where information work needs to be started. It is not a strategy that solves it, but it is concrete action.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-455	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we inherited a few years ago, where the gap had increased more rapidly than in any other country in the OECD area. We also inherited a country where we had a very high youth unemployment – and still have – in combination with a firmly established and organised crime. Of course, it is not possible to make it happen quickly, but it takes time to try to turn it around. Youth unemployment is on the way down. I look forward to our being able to make specific targeted efforts towards the areas that Beatrice Ask is talking about, but then I think it is important to say that we are not going anywhere with just a few simple project money. In essence, it is a question of having a policy that reduces the overall gaps in society. It is about building on general welfare. Let us say that developments in some areas are actually appalling in some respects. I see, for example, that the number of gunshot wounds, if you look at that part, increased by 50% between 2006 and 2014. It is the result of weapons coming in a different way and the existence of criminal gangs. We are now making efforts to combat the criminal gangs. There are a number of legislative proposals that come to Parliament's table during the spring, but we also go in with social contributions. We will strengthen social services by a total of over SEK 1 billion over the next four years. It is an incredibly important investment in social care for children and young people. If we are to turn this around, we need to work in both the areas we are talking about and with targeted efforts towards children and young people.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-459	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask has asked the Minister for the Interior what concrete measures he and the Government are prepared to take to allow more expulsions and expulsions to reach the level he has expressed and whether there is a need to ask the relevant authorities' views on the legislation and rules that create difficulties at work. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. A functioning asylum and reception system requires that persons who have received a final rejection of their asylum application return to their home countries. It is a prerequisite for a legally secure and credible asylum process. It is also about being able to receive and free up places in the accommodations for those who come to Sweden and apply for asylum. The sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers in 2015 means that the number of returnees is expected to increase significantly. The work on return and enforcement is a priority for the government, and a variety of measures need to be taken to increase the number of returnees. This includes reinforced work on the return of unaccompanied minors. The Government intends to propose additional funds to the relevant authorities to strengthen and streamline return work. In addition, funds will be needed to increase the number of detention centres. The government is also working towards better and more effective cooperation with beneficiary countries on the readmission of returnees. In order to facilitate the work, the government will propose additional resources for the deployment of liaison officers for returnees at Swedish embassies in current countries. The government has also agreed with the bourgeois parties to remove the right to daily allowance and the right to housing for adults without children after a decision on expulsion has become final. A legislative referral will be presented shortly. The ambition is that the legislation will enter into force in July 2016. In addition, the Migration Agency and the Police Authority have been tasked with the assistance of the Prison Service with the purpose of making return more effective. The aim is to significantly shorten the period of stay of persons who are enrolled in the reception and have a final decision on expulsion or expulsion, by implementing more removal decisions.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-466	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I put the question to the Minister for the Interior on the grounds that Minister Ygeman in the media judged that we can expect up to 80 000 people to be deported in the coming years. The Minister for Justice's answer is somewhat more nuanced, and I have great respect for it. It is important that the person who has been examined leaves the country after a decision has been taken to reject the application. It is also important that people who have not been registered, but who have stayed permanently as undocumented, are found and rejected. The great wave of refugees in recent times, as we all know, poses major challenges for society as a whole. The best thing from all perspectives is, of course, if people who are not granted a residence permit leave the country on their own, but in many cases coercion is required. Of the approximately 12 000 who returned last year, some a quarter of the cases required coercion. According to estimates of approximately 32,000 rejections of asylum applications in 2016, this would amount to approximately 8 000 forced expulsions. It is far from the 80 000 that Anders Ygeman has spoken about, and it is twice as many that the police expect to manage, at least according to their website. Against this background, it is, of course, a good thing that the government intends to provide the relevant authorities with more resources. And I welcome the work of the beneficiary countries and the deployment of liaison officers, as well as the removal of the daily allowance and the right to housing from 1 June this year. In the face of this, the procedures and resources for expulsion must, of course, be equipped with the relevant authorities. Is such work going on? If it is not in place when the new rules come into force, there is a great risk that many will deviate and remain undocumented. Given that the police today have 21 000 enforcement decisions on the table, where 13 000 people have deviated, it would be increasing the problems rather than reducing them. It is, of course, essential that the authorities involved make their cooperation more effective. There is a trial here. The question is what is meant by attempts, because it is of course absolutely necessary to achieve results in this work. Was it difficult to get the Green Party on this to demand more efficiency, or what could it be? Whatever the case, resources will of course be needed, as both the police and others have pointed out. Another thing is the lack of detention places, which means that even people who consider that a detention order is necessary to cope with the deportation can not be dealt with. This is particularly true in northern Sweden. Many refugee camps are located in rural areas with very long distances. I have seen examples in Norrland where you have a 300 km easy journey down to the repository in Gävle. It goes without saying that resources are not at all sufficient. So there is a reality that is far from the big media play. My second question in the interpellation concerns what often comes up when you talk to people, that there are rules that create obstacles to effective work. Should not the authorities be given the task of proposing simplifications so that they are given a good basis for decision-making?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-475	Mr President, I would like to Well, of course, and such work with the authorities is currently going on very intensively in the Government Office where we ask the authorities: Is it the case that we need to change some regulatory framework to make this better and more effective? It relates to Beatrice Ask's question about trials or not. The attempts made include the location of the police, the Migration Agency and the Prison Service in the same place, so that it becomes much easier for them to talk to each other and to have short decision-making paths. I and the Prime Minister visited the detention centre in Märsta two weeks ago. It is an example of how one has just co-located. That model, I think, needs to be extended to the whole country as we face such a huge task. We agree on the basic principle that if you have protection needs you can stay. If you do not have a need for protection, you will be refused your application and will then be allowed to go home. Of course, that is often easier said than done, because there may be various obstacles to it. But last year there were 160 000 asylum seekers. We currently have 180,000 in the system. According to the forecast, the Finnish Immigration Service will make approximately 95 000 decisions this year, compared to 60 000 decisions in 2014, so the Finnish Immigration Service will increase its capacity here. We expect that there will be, as Beatrice Ask said, about 32,000 rejections this year, but then there will be 2017 and the following year, so when Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman talks about 60 000 – 80 000 in the coming years it is not really that bad forecast. It may well end up there somewhere, depending on the rejection rates in the coming years. We'll see about that. That is about the same thing that we have to take up altitude for the coming years. It also depends on how many are coming this year. 12 000 returned last year, 9 000 voluntarily and 3 000 under coercion. Sometimes you get the impression that there's hardly anyone coming back. It's completely wrong and it's a myth. In fact, about 1 000 a month return to their homelands. It is important that it works for the legitimacy of the system that people know that if they have been rejected, they must actually return home. The second is that we need the asylum accommodations. We have about 100,000 in our asylum accommodations now. Not only are they drunk but they are overcrowded in certain places. We must ensure that people are sparse out so that they do not have to live on crowded as they have been forced to do since last autumn. The third is to counteract the shadow society that otherwise risks developing where several people go underground and work illegally. The fourth is that incentives must be reduced to come to Sweden with manifestly unfounded asylum applications. Then return is important from that point of view too. We have SEK 315 million set aside for rejection this year, but we will need more money for that. We will also allocate more money to the authorities we are talking about. We're going to need more detention places. We will have to deploy liaison officers in a number of the interesting countries to make it easier to return. We have the mission to the Migration Agency and the Police to streamline, as I explained. We have the proposal to withdraw the allowance and accommodation for adults who are still in or have accommodation. It was a bill we passed on Thursday. And we have ongoing work with some of the beneficiary countries, especially Afghanistan, to bring about a readmission agreement. I think that is very important to make this work.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-485	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Justice says that work is under way for the authorities to develop rules and practices that should be changed. I just wanted to say that I have looked in the directives quite thoroughly for it but did not find it. But I am very happy if there is such work going on anyway, because I come across people working in the authorities who always give examples of things that are an obstacle or a problem. Sometimes I recognize the problem and sometimes I don't. However, I am a little interested in the fact that this is actually being highlighted, partly in order to remove unnecessary criticism of the system and that it is the fault of politicians, and partly because there may be things that have not been considered that could be simplified and improved. We need that because we have big volumes and big challenges ahead of us. It is also a good thing that the number of detention places is increased, because today detention decisions are not taken in some rather serious cases because you simply have no place to place people. This means that there's no room for people who should definitely be expelled-- now I'm thinking more about for reasons other than people being here though they shouldn't. Maybe they have a warrant or something. That's bad, so I really hope it's handled. Then I think it's good that the Migration Agency increases its capacity. I believe that every citizen sees an effort being made to the utmost and very much delivered. That's excellent. Of course, what worries a little is the quality of work. Among other things, the large number of cases has prevented a thorough investigation from being carried out immediately, as was done in the past. This means, for example, that the ability of the Swedish Security Service to test possible views on people is far too late. When it comes to expulsion and expulsion, it is often a problem that the cases received by the police are rather poorly prepared. The identity is not quite clear, and there is no evidence. It is clear that if the papers are not in order, it will be even more difficult to expel people and even more difficult to convince a recipient country to accept the expelled persons. Here it is important to ensure that efficiency is increased, that quality is carefully monitored and that times are pressed. I think it is important to get into the aspect that there may be people who get into the refugee flows that definitely do not have in Sweden to do. Then I am thinking of people who have terrorist ambitions and other things, so it is important that this works. One problem is that the police and the authorities do not deliver to the extent the government wishes. The police's forecasts are far below the government's, and I'm concerned about that. If the police think they can handle 4,000, they are far from working for several years. That requires resources and a methodology, and it would be good if we could reach a situation where the Government's ambitions are consistent with what the authorities think they should achieve and believe they can handle. Only then will we achieve results in the complex and difficult work of expulsion and expulsion.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-493	Mr President, I would like to Yes, of course it will be difficult. This is one of the biggest tasks that Swedish state administration has faced in a very long time. We have 160 000 asylum seekers. Many will be allowed to stay, especially those coming from war zones in Syria and parts of Iraq. However, many will not be allowed to stay and must go home. This means that we have to scale up the business quite considerably during the year. Last year, 12,000 went home, about 1 000 a month. It should be said to counter the myth that it does not work at all. As I said, we need to scale up. It is, of course, a resource issue, and it is a matter of detention places, liaison officers and legislation. Of course it will be difficult. I don't think anyone's gonna believe anything else. We are going through the obstacles and rules that we may need to change. Should we need legislation, we will of course return to Parliament. Otherwise, much can change at regulation level. One thing that has been raised from several quarters, not least from police quarters, is that we must also be prepared to increase both supervision and sanctions in workplaces. Those who remain in Sweden and work illegally to support themselves in some way are often subjected to abominable exploitation. They work for 10 kroner an hour and live in a basement. It is totally unacceptable for human reasons, but also because employers who exploit labour in this way gain a competitive advantage in relation to other companies. We need to deal with this. We should not have a situation where more and more people live in this shadow existence. How, then, do we get to grips with the rogue companies involved in this? There is an ongoing investigation that will be completed in the autumn where we look at both sanctions and enforcement opportunities at workplaces and employers. Is Beatrice Ask prepared to cooperate on this issue, that is, to increase the pressure on the rogue companies and employers who use such labour and exploit this situation and these people in an improper manner?
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-504	Mr President, I would like to After all, the Moderates have pushed the government in this work, and there is no reason to do otherwise in the future. It is incredibly important to ensure that there is order in this country. There is no reason in the world not to ensure that companies are serious and that we do not have undeclared work. Some of the effects of some of the reforms that we carried out did, of course, black jobs white, and we must continue to work to ensure that. So it is self-evident that we should work on it, but it is not certain that in all the details we will be in full agreement on how to proceed. It is important that people are not exploited as labour and thus remain undocumented. Building a shadow society of people who stand side by side of all regulations is very bad in the longer perspective of the individual, for his family and for society. We cannot accept that. Unfortunately, the best recruiters are crime. Crime has an incredible entrepreneurial ability to take on people who are in different ways weak or seeking livelihoods. They become easy victims of exploitation of various kinds. This requires that we have solid work against organised crime, against money laundering and all that can now be done. It is precisely in this grey area that many of these people may be exploited. The Minister of Justice can certainly count on my support in the work against this type of exploitation of people. It is not acceptable in a good society, and there is no need for it either. On the contrary, we must ensure that people have reasonable opportunities to make a decent living. If you are in Sweden, you should be on legal grounds. No other reason is acceptable. It's about making society work, so it's not weird for me.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-512	Mr President, I would like to I thank Beatrice Ask for the debate and for the clarification at the end. We may have to make some legislative changes when we get the result of the investigation into supervision and sanctions against the employers who take advantage of the situation. Then it's good to know that the Moderates have the same entrance as us. Let me sum up. More than SEK 300 million is reserved for renunciation this year. We will need to increase that amount, and we will come back to that in an amending budget. We will need to develop more detention sites, and there is an ongoing discussion about where to lie and how to scale it up. It places quite a lot of demands on the premises because we are talking about locked spaces with a relatively high level of safety. It does not make it easy to develop new such institutions. But we're gonna need more seats. We need liaison officers in the countries concerned and agreements with more countries. I mentioned Afghanistan earlier. I can also mention Morocco. We need to be able to reject Moroccan street children in Stockholm and Gothenburg, and then we need to work together with Morocco. I mentioned the bill that adults should no longer be able to receive compensation or get housing. We will get back to the Riksdag as soon as we can. We also have a mission to the Migration Agency and the police to streamline. It is a major task, but I am convinced that we will be able to do it. It won't be easy, but if we work together and the Riksdag, we'll be able to do it.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-518	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what concrete measures I have taken to counter cyber-bullying and cyber-hate. I want to make it clear that threats and other violations can be as serious if they are made online as anywhere else. It is often women or young people who suffer the violations. Journalists and others involved in the public debate are also frequently exposed to threats and violations. That is, of course, unacceptable in a democratic society. With the help of technology, we can reach each other at any time and anywhere to exchange or disseminate opinions and information without being hindered by national borders. It is a achievement of freedom of expression and a cornerstone of a democratic dialogue. At the same time, it has become easier to damage the privacy of others through threats, violations and the dissemination of private and sensitive data. It is clear to me that the criminal law protection of personal privacy in some parts is out of date and inadequate. Better protection against online hatred is needed to protect every person's right to his or her personal integrity. It is also important for a continued free-thinking and debate where everyone can participate. We need to strengthen the legislation in order to provide better protection against threats and violations. I therefore welcome the proposals for stronger legislation submitted to me by an investigation a month ago. The investigator proposes, among other things, a new criminal offence, illegal invasion of privacy, which criminalises intrusion into someone's privacy through the dissemination of privacy-sensitive images and data. The investigator also proposes that the penal provisions on illegal threats and harassment be extended and that the rules on slander and insult be modernised. The investigator's proposal is now being referred, and I await the views of the referral bodies. I am convinced that we will then have a good basis for moving forward with legislation that can more effectively counter the problems that exist online. In addition to the review of the legislation that we are working on, the Crime Prevention Council, on behalf of the Government, has mapped out police-reported threats and violations against individuals via the Internet. The survey was published in a report last year. The report describes a selection of police reported crimes with a particular focus on gender differences. It also makes a number of concrete proposals for measures and actions to improve the handling of online infringements by the authorities. The government is working to follow up these proposals and has, for example, commissioned Brå to map IT-related elements of reported crimes. Of course, while criminal law measures are important, they are not the whole solution to the problems that exist online. For example, preventive work needs to be strengthened, and the government intends to come back with an action plan to safeguard the democratic dialogue against threats and hatreds that will include, among other things, elected representatives and journalists. It is important to work broadly to counter threats and violations. There, parents, civil society and the public have a shared responsibility, and the government is prepared to take its share of the responsibility.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-529	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. I've put two interpellations to the minister. One is about cyberbullying and the other is about net hate. This is basically about two different parts of the same challenge. For most young people, smart phones, tablets and laptops with constant internet access are something of course and fully integrated into their lives today. The constant connection is present all hours of the day for young people. Everything happens in real time, and social media is as much reality as life outside the screens on phones and tablets. Young people use the smart phones to send in homework, participate in multiple social media at the same time and watch their favorite series – all at the same time and with the same platforms. Basically, technological development is amazing and in many ways creates a new and better world. Today's youths travel to all sorts of places, and the world is becoming smaller and smaller. Social media enables contact with friends at home while adding new friends to different social networks. As a teenage parent, one cannot help but be fascinated by everything our young ones do. But the connected world is relatively new as a phenomenon. In fact, we teenage parents today lived in our youth at a time when the Internet did not exist, which makes no sense to our children. In fact, technology has come at the same time as today's young people grew up. This means that today's parent generation's knowledge of all of this is relatively limited while the legislation is not in any way adapted to the reality in which our young people live. It is against this background that I have put the two amendments to the Minister. Online bullying is in many ways worse than the bullying that used to take place at school. Today school bullying continues even after school hours. With constant connectivity and social media, the victim of bullying does not escape his tormentors. In addition, bullying on social media is largely done without the transparency of the adult world. A teenage parent may be doing supper and living in the belief that the 13-year-old daughter is sitting in her room doing her homework or watching some show. In fact, the bullying she was subjected to at school continues on her mobile phone as well. It continues when they eat supper together. Parents may ask their youth to put the phone down in the belief that she is talking to a friend, but in fact it is the bullying that never ends. It continues as she goes back to her room in the evening, and it continues at the moment she wakes up in the morning. It continues on weekends and on holiday. She's not getting a break. Never will she ever get a break from those who torment her. The adult world sees very little and unfortunately asks too few questions. Many young girls are ashamed and do not want to tell anyone about what is happening. In the end, they can't take it anymore, and a young person's life may end before it's even started seriously. We politicians have some answers to these challenges. Legislation must be adapted to new technologies. Some of the answers can be found in the inquiry the minister refers to and is now out for consultation. I also hear that the Minister is prepared to go forward with legislation, which I welcome in this area. We must do our part as legislators to modernise the legislation so that it is adapted to the time we live in.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-539	Mr President, I would like to I think there is a strong consensus here about what we should do. I myself am a teenage parent, a rather recent one — my eldest son turned 13 here. Sometimes you are surprised at how fast things are going, not least everything that they know online and that you feel that you have no idea. What they live in doesn't always see us adults. The against-sides of the Internet, that is, bullying, hatred, harassment, slander, spreading rumours and anything we talk about, can affect anyone who is active online. However, we know that this affects women to a particular extent, especially young women. It is also those who suffer the most disgusting of this, namely when naked images or other intimate images or films are posted online, perhaps taken by a former partner in a relationship. We need to strengthen the legislation here and modernise it. The slanderous crimes are occurring at a time when insults would be prosecuted face to face or gossip in the countryside. Now we are talking about rumours, images and other things online, and it is much more difficult to access and have much stronger consequential effects. You can move away from the village, the district or where this happens, but you can never move away from the internet. The Internet never forgets either, but far afterwards – it can be decades – the images, the rumours or whatever you're talking about can surface. When an employer Googles on your name when looking for a job, this will grieve, or perhaps get a new relationship that you have met with part of it. This can ruin people's lives long into the future. We must therefore take a firm look at it and modernise the legislation so that the law looks at it more strictly than it has done in the past. I received an investigation proposal some time ago, which I think is taking significant steps in this. The investigation is being referred, and we'll see what the referrals say. In essence, however, I welcome the proposals made by the investigator. This is a particular crime that is called illegal privacy breach and where leaked images can be accessed in a different way. You criminalize the behavior and make it punishable. The proposal is that offences of normal rank should impose a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of two years and a serious crime of six months in prison for up to four years. There is a suggestion that the offence of illegal threats should be extended from causing serious fear to causing serious concern. There are proposals to modernise the harassment clause, which I think is very important. There are proposals to change the BBS Act so that those who have a page with comment fields, for example, will be obliged to remove things that may be illegal threats or breach of privacy. There is already such an obligation in other crimes, but now they want to extend it. In addition, there are suggestions for the victim to be entitled to compensation when a person is convicted of gross defamation. It would have to be done. I am not going to lock myself up completely at all the details, but I think the proposals look good. They are out for a referral, and I hope to be able to submit a bill to Parliament this year.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-551	Mr President, I would like to The Minister raises several important issues. We have had some debate in the past where we have talked about revenge porn and the possibility of tightening up what is currently slanderous legislation. It's basically very good. Much of what has been debated and much of what the Minister refers to in the investigation proposal is good. It will be interesting to see what the referee will give in this area and, not least, the continued consideration in the Riksdag of what comes of this. Hopefully we'll have a government bill to take a position on in this area. I look forward to that very much, I just want to say. At the same time, we need to work in this area to involve more adults and young people in discussions on norms and values. It shall apply to the same standards and values on-line as on-line. It doesn't follow. Public society, too, makes a certain difference. It's just not okay. For young people today, there is no difference between what is happening in social media and what is happening outside. It is an integral part of life itself. Of course, legislation is only part of the solution, even if it is so important. It is also about how young people are in the classroom against each other and also on breaks and in social media. It must be as bad to call a friend ugly words in reality as on the Internet. There must be equality in this. If we work hard together on all fronts, we can do a lot to ensure that young people are not bullied either in school or in their free time. The Internet and social media must not become a free zone where it is okay for young people to say and do anything to each other. The responsibility for arranging this cannot be left to our young people, but the adult world must assume its responsibilities. Those of us who have political responsibility must do our part in ensuring that legislation is in keeping with and adapted to the time we live in. I intend to do my part of that work. As I interpret the Minister's response to the interpellations and previous interpellation, the Minister also seems to be prepared for that. That is why I look forward very much to the legislation that the Minister will put forward. Perhaps I should like to ask the Minister when he thinks it is reasonable in time to see such a bill in a broader format on Parliament's table.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-558	Mr President, I would like to I am counting on us to be able to present a legislative proposal this year. If so, we are talking about autumn. It is important that we work on this under strong priority because we need stronger legislation to stand on. It is in itself a good thing to have good legislation. However, as Edward Riedl points out, that is not enough, but something else is needed. Legislation is normative. It provides a guide to what is acceptable and not acceptable in a society. This also applies to sanctions against those who commit these crimes and do not behave in such a way as to be acceptable. The law is supposed to provide an opportunity for that. But that is not enough; much more is needed. I believe that we must also involve other parts of society here. Perhaps this is not primarily a question of the judiciary, although it is also important. This is about prevention. It is important that we as adults talk to our children about what they do online, what they may be exposed to online and how they behave online. That is an important point to make. The second is school and raising awareness in school. Often it can be a bullying, if we talk about it, where some take place in the classroom and another part takes place online. Then it is important that the school, if it investigates this, becomes aware of the full extent of such bullying in such a case so that it can act with vigour. Earlier this evening I had an interpellation debate with Beatrice Ask on crime prevention. I spoke at the time about our initiatives that we are taking to strengthen local crime prevention. It is often municipalities and policemen, together with other municipal authorities, who are the hub of this. This is a pretty good task for local crime prevention councils to take on too. It is important to ask the schools and the municipality's young people how they view this and what problems there are. It is also a way of raising the whole issue alongside all the other crime prevention tasks that the councils have. We are about to develop a new strategy in the area of crime prevention. The old strategy dates back to 1996. It's been since Laila Freivald's time. It's been 20 years since she was Minister of Justice. Let's upgrade it. Is it something that we really need to upgrade is all that has to do with the network and that area because what we know was barely there in 1996.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-565	Mr President, I would like to I chose in my previous speeches to concentrate on what is about cyber bullying, because the interpellation debates were merged. I am also going to say a few words about online hate speech. It is basically the same problem, as I said earlier, although it is sometimes expressed differently. It is about the fact that today's legislation is not adapted to today's technology, where the ability to spread things on the internet is very much greater than the time before the internet existed. Technology offers us great opportunities, as I and the Minister have pointed out several times. But it also brings us a lot of new challenges. What could be envisaged is a number of measures to tackle this. Today is International Women's Day. As in other parts of the world, online hatred affects women to a greater extent than men. Those who hate the Internet are to a very small extent convicted of crime. The level of tolerance against what is happening online is very much higher compared to what is happening outside the network. Online hate is everything from slander to sexual harassment and insulting photography. These are also things that, in the sense of the law, are not illegal but can be very offensive and unpleasant to those affected. Then we may never be able to do anything that is stupidly illegal, even if you would like to do so at times. These developments must be prevented in various ways. This applies not least because it also affects the democratic dialogue when journalists and politicians are exposed to this kind of online hatred. With short speaking time left, I would like to say that it feels good that the Minister will come back with a proposal for broad and robust legislation, but also that the Minister sees other ways to tackle these kinds of challenges. I think that is basically very good.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-571	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Edward Riedl for the debate. I believe that this is an issue in which we can work together well and move in the same direction. We will strengthen legislation and strengthen preventive work. We continue at our edge to ensure that it is implemented. Thank you for the debate for today.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-572	Mr President, I would like to Kent Ekeroth has asked me whether I and the government intend to take the initiative to tighten up the laws on the expulsion of criminal foreigners in order to increase the proportion of those who are being expelled with the sentence. The regime currently in force allows Swedish courts to decide on expulsions for crimes under the provisions of the Aliens Act. When assessing whether expulsion is a reasonable legal effect of a crime, the court must make a number of balances. In the first stage, the foreigner is required to be sentenced to a more severe penalty than a fine. It must then be assumed that the foreigner will continue to be guilty of crime, or that the crime is of some severity. In the latter case, it is normally required that the penalty value for the offence exceeds prison for one year. Account shall also be taken of the foreigner's connection to Sweden. This is done by giving special consideration to (1) the circumstances of the foreigner, (2) whether the foreigner has children in Sweden and, if so, the child's need for contact with him or her, (3) the other family circumstances of the foreigner and (4) how long the foreigner has stayed in Sweden. Finally, a court is obliged to take into account any obstacles to the enforcement of an expulsion order. This means, among other things, that a foreigner must not be deported to a country where he or she is at risk of death penalty, torture, persecution or similar treatment. There may also be other obstacles to the enforcement of an expulsion order, for example for medical reasons or because there is reason to believe that the host country will not accept the foreigner. Overall, there must be a balance between the reactions a crime can bring and the seriousness of the crime. The penalty shall be proportionate together with the other legal effects. The order we have today is balanced and ensures just a reasonable proportionality between offences, penalties and special legal effects in the form of expulsion. It is reasonable to call for a more serious crime or a risk of continued crime in order to expel a foreigner, particularly in cases involving previously unpunished persons. Against this background, I consider the current system to be appropriate. I therefore do not intend to take any initiatives in line with Kent Ekeroth's question.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-580	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. I asked Stefan Löfven the same question a few months ago and got the same answer as here today, so that the government does not intend to do anything. The alliance parties are also in favour of the same passive line, I would add. They showed that year in and year out when they were in government. What does the present situation mean? Let me give you some real examples of how this can be done in legal proceedings. One example is when an asylum seeker came to Sweden in 2005. One year after receiving a residence permit, he assaulted, threatened and raped a woman in Boden. She had, of course, major problems after this, including sleeping difficulties and depression problems. For this rape he did not, because of the rules that we have in Sweden today, deportation. He only got three years in prison. Then he came out, and with today's rules he had the right to stay in Sweden. He did it until he raped again. Now they've found him, and he's in court again. We will see whether today's liberal rules will once again ensure that he stays in Sweden or not. Another case is from Ludvika, where an Eritrean citizen was sentenced for aggravated rape to five years in prison. Among other things, the woman who was raped was beaten to the head with a saucepan. This man was not expelled. The D.A. didn't even press for it. A third example is an Iraqi citizen who was also convicted of aggravated rape. Since he has lived in Sweden for five years, it was necessary for some reason under the current rules for exceptional reasons. However, although the court considered the crime to be of such a degree that there were exceptional reasons, despite the fact that the man had no strong connection with Sweden and that Iraq did not constitute an enforcement obstacle, he was not expelled. Instead, the court figured out that he should stay because it would be inhumane to expel him. Why? The reason was that he had never been to Iraq and that he did not know his relatives there. That was enough, then, for a man who has been convicted of aggravated rape and received a fairly long prison sentence in Sweden – five years – to stay. This is just a sample of many similar cases that testify to major problems in current legislation. The present government believes that this is a reasonable order. SD doesn't think so. We want to change the rules. There are a few elements to this problem. The first is that it is up to the prosecutor to demand expulsion or not. The court may formally do so. But in practice it does not happen. The second is that the courts are pursuing absurd reasoning today, as in my example with the Iraqi rapist, in their eagerness to retain in some way as many criminals as possible in the country. The third is the laws that we are discussing today in the main, which allow this attitude and that this absurd practice is designed. The Swedish Democrats have been putting forward proposals to improve legislation in this area for several years. We believe, among other things, that the issue of expulsion should be examined instead of being examined today. In this way, we will get away from the problem of prosecutors who are not doing their job. Furthermore, we want to make expulsion the general rule. We believe that only if there are very strong reasons should a foreigner who is convicted of a crime that can lead to expulsion avoid being expelled. This coin, as it were, is being turned around. Consideration of the criminal's connection to Sweden should be strongly reduced, and life-long expulsion should be the main rule. I am aware that the government is satisfied with the state of things. Nevertheless, I am surprised to have this kindness about murderers, rapists and whoever it may be. You might think it should be the other way around, that is, you have this kindness about the victims instead.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-594	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that I have no moral misgivings whatsoever about expelling those who have been convicted of crime. In fact, I have been involved in doing so and have taken a number of such decisions in court. Again, I have no such moral misgivings at all. It is a myth that we are happy to spread that we do not expel people who commit crimes. Last year, more than 500 expulsions were carried out. It's almost ten a week. Of course we'll show you when it's possible. But at the same time Sweden should be a rule of law. For example, we cannot expel people to a country where they risk the death penalty or torture. Is this what the Swedish Democrats want to see? Would you like to change the rules so as to leave aside all humanism, so to speak? I am fully aware that what Mr Ekeroth is now talking about is not really about crime. That is not what he basically cares about. It is not the crimes that Ekeroth is against, it is the immigrants. Mr President, I would like to This is a classic right-wing rhetoric that is intended to identify a particular group and portray it as particularly crime-prone, as dangerous and as a threat to society. This has occurred historically on many occasions. Exactly how the Nazis did to the Jews. Exactly so did the white right-wing extremes to the blacks of the American South. It is revealing to you in the Swedish Democrats that the only time you want to talk about crime is when you can connect any immigrant to it. But when it is not an immigrant who commits crime, you do not want to talk about it. Kent Ekeroth himself has shown how he deals with these issues. He showed this clearly in connection with the terrorist attack in Norway the other year, when he himself first pointed out the Muslims as probably guilty on Twitter. It was at the same time that Breivik still went around and shot Social Democrats at Ut ø ya. Then it became clear to Ekeroth that it was a Norwegian Nazi who stood for this – the worst act of terror in the Nordic countries ever. Then it suddenly became quiet on Twitter from Ekeroth's side. Then he didn't want to talk about the crime. That's it. You Swedish democrats do not want to talk about Tony Olsson, about Anders Eklund – the so-called Englamannen – about Niclas Lindgren – the so-called Hagaman, about Peter Mangs, about Tommy Zethraeus, about John Ausonius – the so-called laser man – and about everyone else, so to speak, serious Swedish criminals. You just want to talk about the cases where immigrants have committed crimes. Then you blow up these cases and use them in political rhetoric to put forward, as it were, your far-right position. This is classic right-wing rhetoric, as in Germany in the 1930s, as in the American South in the 1950s and as in Hungary now in the 2000s. Here in Sweden, it is the Swedish Democrats who stand for this, and it is certainly not surprising.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-601	Mr President, I would like to It is very interesting to hear Morgan Johansson here. That you want to expel rapists, murderers and those who abuse people and do theft raids compare Morgan Johansson to Nazism. It is an interesting message from the Social Democrats that we are hearing here today. Morgan Johansson says it's not about crime for us. Yes, it does. That is why we are talking about criminal foreigners. When you look at the general criminal policy of the Swedish Democrats, you see that we want to tighten the penalties not only for foreigners but for everyone. For example, we want to introduce real life sentences. If we had a Breivik in Sweden, that person with the rules of the soss would probably have come out, because there is no real life penalty in Sweden. It is often timed, and the average time is 16 years. With the rules we propose, he would never have come out. It is an example of punishment that also applies to Swedes. But the interesting thing about this debate is that the Social Democrats and the government are now saying that they want to keep rapists and murderers in this country. This is what it is all about. It is not about Swedes who also commit crimes. It's just as bad if Swedes commit crimes. But now we have an opportunity when it is not a question of Swedish citizens to make sure that they never again can be in this country and that they never again can, as the asylum seeker who came to Sweden in 2005, rape and rape again after a low penalty and because they have been allowed to stay in Sweden. This is the development to which the attitude of the present government contributes. I'll mention some statistics. Recently, I received an updated RUT report which showed that the proportion of foreigners in new prisons in 2011 was 29 percent. This figure increased to as much as 41 per cent in 2015. Thus, almost half of all those admitted to prison are not even Swedish citizens. At the same time as this happens, we see that the proportion of those who receive their sentence associated with expulsions is decreasing, from 22% in 2011 to 17% in 2015. Sweden thus retains, with the rules advocated by the government, 83% of all foreigners admitted in 2015. If you break the numbers, it'll be even more interesting. Then we see that we retain 92% of those convicted of violent crimes, including aggravated robbery. Only 8% of them get deportation associated with them. We keep 78% of those who have committed sex crimes. The trend is also downward. The proportion of those who committed sex offences has fallen from 38 per cent in 2008 to 22 per cent in 2015 and among those who committed violent crimes from 12 per cent to 8 per cent. We are showing an increasingly smaller proportion as more and more foreigners enter our prisons. That is what this is all about. I'm talking about something that goes without saying to ordinary people. It is about those who come to our country and are not even Swedish citizens. That's who we're talking about. They want the sossies to keep. But instead of tackling this problem, which is obviously also increasing, what does Morgan Johansson do? Well, he calls it Nazism to throw out rapists and murderers! He talks about Breivik, who, with our rules, would never have seen the light of day again. Neither would Anders Eklund, or whoever it may be. Our rules apply to Swedish citizens as well as to foreign citizens. But those who are foreign citizens, we can throw them out of the country. The question remains. We have seen examples of how a court of exorbitant justifications and arguments kept someone who there were no real obstacles to expel to Iraq, for example. Looking at what is happening in the courts, it is quite clear that the law must be amended so that the Court does not have room to keep up with what it is doing.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-611	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous speech, I have no moral misgivings whatsoever about expelling anyone who has committed a crime. I've been there. We expelled about 500 people last year, ten a week. At the same time, however, we must be prepared to look at each individual case. That's how the Swedish system works. There may be obstacles to deportation. I pointed out this, namely that no one can be deported to a country where he or she is at risk of death penalty or torture. I asked Kent Ekeroth a specific question: is he prepared to remove that exception? Does he want to help change the legislation so that we can expel people to the death penalty, torture or other inhumane treatment? In that case, he and the Swedish Democrats have completely left the normal humanitarian and rule of law rules. Sweden shall be a state governed by the rule of law. This means that we have our laws and rules, but at the same time we take into account the nature of the individual cases. That is also the explanation for Kent Ekeroth's statistics. Then he attacks me because I point to his rhetoric. Let me just briefly say that what you're doing in all your rhetoric-- and that was about half of Kent Ekeroth's speech-- is constantly linking immigrants and foreigners to crime. That's the whole background. It's not the crimes you're after. It is not the crimes you are reacting to, it is immigration that you are opposed to, and so you are using criminal policy as a battlefield. In addition, you are always so quick to point to the criminality of others. You do not want to say that other than immigrants commit crimes, although there are quite a few examples, as I mentioned in my speech. You are quick to point out the crimes that immigrants commit. But, Kent Ekeroth, what does it look like in your own ranks? It is enough to look in your own parliamentary group. You belong to Sweden's most criminal parliamentary group. There are a number in your group who are convicted of crime: assault, slander and drug crime. SD members in this House are well above the national average in terms of the rate of conviction. Perhaps you should be grateful, Ekeroth, for not being able to expel Swedish citizens from Sweden. You might have had a hard time getting your parliamentary lists together. My point is: Before you start pointing out others and pointing the point at immigrants, or foreigners, as you say, be sure to clean up your own ranks first.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-618	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson says we should be proud that we show 500 a year. My statistics show that we keep 83% in the country. It defends Morgan Johansson. He defends the fact that we keep 92% of those who have committed violent crimes. He defends the fact that we keep 78% of those who have committed sex crimes. That's what he says today. He defends that attitude. He asks me if we have concerns, whether there can be obstacles and whether we are prepared to expel to torture. No, we're not. But as I showed with the judgment I referred to and as Morgan Johansson himself went through in his opening speech, there are a lot of aspects of the law that make you not to expel. It is about connection, if you have lived five years in Sweden and so on. At least those aspects should be addressed by the government. In this way, for example, this Iraqi citizen would have been deported to Iraq, for there were no other reasons than that he did not know his family well. Should that really be a reason to keep a serious rapist who has been given five years in Swedish prison? Morgan Johansson thinks so. He also claims that we constantly want to link immigration to crime. No, not all the time, but it is a fairly relevant factor when discussing legislation on expulsion. I hope that the Social Democrats will also be able to discuss this. Then we must reasonably talk about foreigners, because they are the only ones who are the subject of expulsion. How can we talk about this legislation without talking about foreigners? It is not possible by definition, and I would have hoped that Morgan Johansson could have understood without having to point it out to him. Then he talks about criminality in our parliamentary group. Now I have only 26 seconds to reply, but I am happy to talk about the criminal history of the sossians with forced sterilisations and one with the other. I have long lists of social democrats around the country who have committed countless crimes, including sexual crimes against children. I can talk about that forever, and Morgan Johansson knows it.
i-c3b7d1bc15eb36d2-622	Mr President, I would like to I just pointed out that Kent Ekeroth comes from a parliamentary group where there are a number who are convicted. To pull everyone over from this and say that everyone who votes for the Swedish Democrats has about the same crime burden is wrong. The parliamentary group that you, Kent Ekeroth, represent has a much higher crime burden than the average Swedish Democrat Voter. At least I certainly hope that is the case. Ekeroth can certainly stand there with long lists of other things, but he does not escape my basic point, namely that if he tries to pursue crime, perhaps he should start in his own ranks before he uses this rhetoric, which is so classic. It has been used since the Nazis pointed out the Jews in the 1930s to the relationship between whites and blacks in the 1950s USA and to how they are now doing in a number of countries. This applies not only to Hungary, but we also see such tendencies in the United States. People are constantly trying to label certain groups as particularly crime - prone or dangerous. If you go down that road – and it is a fundamental theme in the rhetoric of the Swedish democrats – you tear society apart. Then you put groups against each other. This leads to very difficult conflicts. It is precisely those conflicts and the chaos that the Swedish Democrats want to bring about, because that is what you are living on in the long term. I have no moral misgivings whatsoever about expelling people who have committed crimes. I myself have been involved in doing so on a number of occasions. The Swedish system works in such a way that we have a foundation, and then you have to look at each individual case. However, the kind of rhetoric that Ekeroth is engaged in is not aimed at combating crime but only at pointing out immigrants.
