i-53799cdb94780c05-0	Madam President, I would like Last year I stood at the edge of the gigantic open pit Welzow-Süd-Süd in southeastern Germany. It is one of the quarries where Vattenfall breaks its German coal. It is at places like Welzow-Süd-Süd that the future and the climate issue are decided. If the coal is taken out of the ground and burned, we will destroy the climate. If coal stays in the ground, there is hope of saving the climate. It is the Swedish Government that has the decision in its hand on how to proceed. We know that the buyer who now wants to buy Welzow-Süd-Süd and other power plants and open-pit mines in Germany is unserious. Czech EPH not only intends to dig up as much coal as it can in Welzow-Süd-Süd and elsewhere. It also wants to open up the new mines that the government has decided that Vattenfall would not use for climate reasons. The new mines alone contain 1.2 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide. That's 24 times Sweden's annual emissions. That's what this is about. We know that if all that coal is burned up and others behave the same, it will be too late. But we also know that we can now take climate responsibility. This is one of the opportunities we have to reverse developments. We can't count on outside help. The EU ETS has collapsed. The EU ETS contains billions in excess of carbon dioxide equivalent. It can't save us. It is up to the climate responsibility of each of us to ensure that coal power is decommissioned and renewables are expanded instead. The government now has the question in its hand. It is perhaps the most important climate decision this House has ever taken. We call on the government to do the right thing, make green and put the climate first.
i-53799cdb94780c05-4	Madam President, I would like Vattenfall is the largest company in the government portfolio, and it is no exaggeration to say that it is one of the most important. Vattenfall acts in an energy market that is regulatory, technologically advanced and important to society at large. Vattenfall has played a crucial role in securing energy supply in Sweden and producing energy at competitive prices. Vattenfall is no less important today when the energy market is to switch from fossil to renewable. In plain language: Vattenfall is not just any company. It is an extremely important asset for the Swedish people. It is therefore regrettable that Vattenfall's development and investment decisions are not always surrounded by the respect for the Swedish people's assets that can be expected. The Nuon affair and the then alliance government's inability to take responsibility will weigh on this company for many years to come. The Cooperation Government therefore decided that it was time for a move in the governance of Vattenfall. We have, among other things, clarified how key processes should be used and provided valuable expertise to the Board. An accident like Nuon will not happen again. We jointly owe this to the Swedish people. Let me say a few words about the surrounding world that Vattenfall is in. The European energy market is rapidly changing, affecting all conventional energy companies on the market. The evolution of energy prices affects not only Vattenfall but also its competitors. The course development for Eon and RWE, for example, shows dramatic declines. Both companies have embarked on the process of dividing the group into two parts, one for fossil-based production and one for renewable production, distribution and sales to consumers. As you know, Vattenfall is also in a structural change that will make the company the leader in the transition to renewable energy. Vattenfall's Board of Directors decided in October 2014 to explore various strategic options for the German lignite business in order to create a new sustainable ownership structure. On 18 April this year, I received a written request for ownership coordination of the sale of Vattenfall's lignite business in Germany. The buyer is a consortium of the Czech company EPH and its financial partner PPF. Such a transaction is complex and has financial implications in both the short and long term. The transaction involves the consortium taking over all assets and liabilities related to Vattenfall's lignite business in Germany. Vattenfall has explained this. It is a cashier of SEK 15 billion and provisions of SEK 18 billion for, among other things, restoration of land. Vattenfall retains price hedges on emission allowances and electricity prices to a value of approximately SEK 9 billion, which is therefore not included in the transaction. No dividends or similar are possible during the first three years and during the restriction for the next two years for the buyer. This means a negative impact on earnings of 22 – 27 billion in Q2 in 2016. If Vattenfall were to maintain lignite operations in Germany, Vattenfall believes that the negative result effect would be greater. The government is well prepared to receive Vattenfall's request for ownership coordination. We as owners are now analysing the transaction proposed by Vattenfall's Board of Directors. The government will come back on this issue once we have taken a position. Within the framework of the ownership directives adopted by the Riksdag for the company, where commercialism is the key word, the government has at its table to say yes or no to the proposed transaction. While Vattenfall is dealing with the challenges and problems facing the company in the short term, it is also necessary to raise your eyes and chart the long-term direction of travel. 2015 was an important year when world leaders agreed on a new climate agreement with a strengthened temperature target for global warming and long-term targets for global greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the international community adopted the objective of sustainable development. The Board and management have clarified a new vision and strategic goals for the company. The vision is that all Vattenfall will be climate neutral by 2050 and Nordic operations by 2030. This vision is the basis for the continued orientation of the company. The company's new focus is positive and corresponds to the Government's ambition that Vattenfall should be the leader in the transformation of the energy system towards a higher share of renewable energy. We will of course follow the development of the work closely and with great interest. I have heard people say that the government's ambitious climate policy does not matter and that the only thing that matters is whether Vattenfall owns German lignite or not. Nothing could be more wrong. Sweden as an example and as a guide to a fossil-free welfare nation is more important than ever. I am proud of Swedish environmental policy. I would like to mention a few examples of positions taken by the government and things it has pushed forward. We have adopted a climate policy framework and a proposal for a new climate target that is among the most ambitious in the world. We are the world's second largest donor per capita to the United Nations Climate Fund, SEK 4 billion to finance climate change in developing countries. The government has made it easier and cheaper to put solar cells on the roofs, ensuring that the number of ellad poles for electric cars has doubled and has supported an increased production of biogas. The government has made the largest increase in investments in protection and management of a valuable nature in at least 20 years. In addition, we have made a billion investment in local climate investment programmes. This debate is about Vattenfall. I would like to conclude by stating that Sweden needs a strong Vattenfall, not only in order to secure energy supply but also in order for us as a country to continue to be the leader in climate change.
i-53799cdb94780c05-15	Madam President, I would like It is the Green Party and the Social Democrats who decide whether Vattenfall should be allowed to sell the German lignite business or not. It may be appropriate to start there, Madam President. One can easily get the impression in the debate that it may be a little unclear. I'm not the only one who claims this. The Chairman of Vattenfall's Board also said the same thing in the newspaper Dagens i ndustri. In Sweden's Television, Sophie Nachemson-Ekwall-Ekwall, one of Sweden's leading researchers in corporate governance, expressed the same thing. It is the Green Party and the Social Democrats who decide on the future of lignite: sell or retain. The German lignite business was bought in the early 2000s under the then Social Democratic government, which then had the Green Party as a support party. The current Minister of Finance Bolund then sat as an expert in the Government Office. It was not only this business that was bought, but Vattenfall bought other activities in other countries and coal power also in countries such as Poland and Denmark. The road choice for Vattenfall, which the Social Democrats did together with the Green Party in the early 2000s, has, of course, become very important. Vattenfall has become a much larger company that operates in far more markets. The operation has also received a completely different environmental profile and emissions than before. In autumn 2014, Vattenfall launched a strategic review of its German lignite business. This question has now been handed over to the Green Party and the Social Democrats for a decision in the government whether to sell or maintain the business. From the Moderates' side, we are careful that the premises in such a deal should be based on economics, the strategic path for Vattenfall and sustainability. These premises should form the basis for the serious and independent analysis that the government now has to make of this affair. We are also careful that the rules and the division of responsibilities between the Government and the Riksdag that exist regarding the management of the state companies should be respected. This means that the Green Party and the Social Democrats now have this issue on their knees. They shall carry out their analysis and reach a decision on the German lignite business. Vattenfall is a very important company. It is the largest in the government portfolio. It is a major player in the energy markets. What Vattenfall does is of great importance. We assume that the Government will keep the Riksdag informed of the sales process and ultimately of its position on the future of lignite. Germany has significantly dirtier electricity production than Sweden, which is largely due to coal power. The fact that German politicians have quickly decided to prematurely phase out nuclear power has been important and has led to increased emissions and carbon dependence. If Germany is to meet its climate targets, it will have to use less coal power over time. It is also important to see that in Europe the pricing of coal and its environmental costs is determined by the ETS and that the future of coal in Germany is ultimately a matter for the German people and politicians. In the same way, we in Sweden do not want other countries or other politicians to decide the future of, for example, the Swedish forest or hydroelectric power. Brown coal has been a hot topic for a very long time. In fact, as long as it has been unclear, Madam President, what the Green Party and the Social Democrats want with lignite and Vattenfall. They are deeply divided, which is worrying. Different ministers give different answers. Mikael Damberg often says one thing and the Environmental Party's voice is another – and something that changes over time. There has also been a tendency to try to shift the blame and shift the matter to the Riksdag when it is the government itself that has to make the decision. I don't think that's responsible. However, one thing is certain, Madam President: it is now the Green Party and the Social Democrats that decide the future of Vattenfall and the German lignite. It is now up to the proof of Löfven and Lövin.
i-53799cdb94780c05-26	Madam President, I would like Today is the current debate on Vattenfall and its lignite business in Germany, an issue which has once again come high up on the political agenda with the current sale of the business. This is an issue which already in the election movement gained great dignity. It is probably not a party that in substance finds it particularly pleasant that a Swedish state-owned company is involved in perhaps the most controversial power generation in Europe – the one based on lignite. For this reason, many have expressed a desire for Vattenfall to divest its shareholding in the German lignite business. But was it a party that in the election movement had a very high tone if lignite was the Green Party. Here, as in migration policy and many other issues, reality came to grips with the Green Party when, as a de facto opposition party, one had to face up to the challenges of reality in government and when the government now seems to be approaching the sale of lignite and facing that question. In the debate on the sale of lignite, there is also a parallel discussion which takes on a somewhat absurd expression. It is mainly driven by the Left Party, which has the line that Vattenfall should retain its holdings in order to instead shut down power production. You can't help yourself to your forehead. It can hardly be the task of Swedish politicians to dictate the conditions for German energy policy or be the responsibility of the Swedish people to spend tens of billions of dollars on cutting power production that they do not like in other countries. In Germany it is German politicians who decide, not Swedish, and it is the German politicians who will set the framework and make the laws within which the energy companies will operate. It is rather naive of Swedish politicians to mean something else. One might wonder what could be the next brilliant idea from the extreme left on these issues. Should you start buying up, for example, French nuclear power to shut it down, or should you buy Chinese coal power because you don't like it? If, like the Germans, it is thought that nuclear power – obviously in the short scenario – is a greater danger than the climate threat, it certainly seems more reasonable. But this discussion draws a bit of a veil over the Left Party. It also risks damaging our reputation abroad. We in Sweden would probably not be very pleased if energy companies such as Fortum and Statkraft with state owners in Norway and Finland would come to Sweden and shut down power production that has strong political roots here if opinion in Norway and Finland were to be completely different or changed. On the German energy policy and the consequences of the German energy strategy, Energiewende, there are many things you might think. From the Swedish Democratic side, we believe that it has major shortcomings. In addition to investing huge resources in expensive and weather-dependent so-called renewable energy, a radical plan for the deve lopment of German nuclear power has been launched, in spite of the fact that nuclear power is one of the safest and cleanest ways of producing electricity available to us today. In a time when the issue of CO2 emissions is high on the agenda and nuclear power has one of the lowest emissions of all available energy sources, this appears to be even more backward. Sure, from a Swedish perspective you can think different things. But it is true that, thanks to hydroelectric power and nuclear power, we already have an almost completely fossil-free power system today. The Germans are allowed to do what they want – we can think from here that it would be more fair to phase out the very dirty and controversial coal power production instead of nuclear power, but it is an issue that is decided by the Germans and which from Swedish quarters stops at opinion. Madam President, I would like Vattenfall, a company wholly owned by the state, plays an important role in the Swedish power system. In addition, for a number of years, plants have been acquired and constructed in other countries, outside the domestic market – often with a focus on fossil power, to which the Swedish Democrats have been critical. As a result, the company is now one of Europe's largest energy companies – an adventure that in recent years has become an increasingly costly story for taxpayers, as energy prices in many markets have collapsed as a result of low oil and coal prices as well as politically decided subsidies to certain types of energy. Our view is that it is not very appropriate for a Swedish state-owned company to break and burn lignite in another country. But although the circumstances could have been more pleasant from an economic point of view, we welcome ownership changes in many of the installations owned by the company in terms of fossil energy. Our entry point is that Vattenfall's focus will be moved from expansion abroad to primarily protecting the Swedish electricity supply in a long-term perspective. In this respect, the sale of lignite plays a strategic role.
i-53799cdb94780c05-39	Madam President, I would like Leave the coal! The climate is the destiny of our time. Most of all fossil oil, gas and coal must remain in the ground if we are to escape catastrophic warming. We are the ones who can ensure that the earth's poor, as well as our children and grandchildren, are given the opportunity for good lives in the future. The Green Party is in every context pushing for fossil energy to be phased out in favour of renewable energy. We work intensively in the UN and in the development banks. We work in the EU, and we work in Sweden, locally, regionally and nationally, including with the governance of the state energy company Vattenfall. Much has happened since Vattenfall invested in lignite in 2001. The brown coal that was just worth a lot of money is now rather associated with high costs. Anyone who has followed Vattenfall's sales process in the media may have thought that it seems difficult to find a serious buyer of lignite. We Greens have been against coal all along. As early as 2001, we wanted to see more sustainable ownership and fought against the purchase of Vattenfall lignite with motions, protests and KU notifications. As the Green Party's energy policy spokesperson, I myself have been present in Germany and demonstrated against Vattenfall's current plans to expand the brown coal mines. Since then, the Government and Vattenfall have reached a common understanding that the expansion of lignite mining will be discontinued, and Vattenfall has on its own initiative proposed a sale of lignite operations. I note that there are some misunderstandings, whether conscious or not, about the current process, not least regarding the importance of the Ownership Directive and the government's review. I note that there are those who are taking the opportunity to try to discredit the Green Party. Let me make five things clear. The Green Party wants coal to stay in the ground. It is our firm belief that coal should be phased out and replaced by renewable energy by 2030 at the latest throughout the EU. This also applies to Vattenfall's coal, regardless of the owner. The government can say yes or no. That's the whole point of Vattenfall asking the government to try the deal. What the answer will then be, we will only know when the government is finished with the ongoing preparations. Ownership directives decide. The Government's review is based on the ownership directives issued by the Riksdag during the time of the Alliance Government. These directives do not say 'yes' or 'no' to an individual affair, but they are the rules of the game that the government has to deal with. Both sustainability and commercialism are important in the current Ownership Directives. As a matter of fact, Vattenfall will generate a market return by conducting commercial energy activities so that the company belongs to one of the companies that is leading the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. It is therefore both commercial and sustainability. All parties have a responsibility. Vattenfall's governance is not a matter for the Green Party alone or just for the government. The parliamentary situation means that all parties in Parliament have a responsibility. This is the background to the fact that the Green Party, like the Left Party, has called for the debate being held today. In the election campaign, we were in the Green Party alone about our position. Of course, the Green Party hopes that the majority in this House now, as well as we want a carbon-free Europe in 2030 and a governance of Vattenfall that contributes to it. If nothing else, for the sake of democracy, we want it to be clear who stands for what we are now in after the Paris Agreement. The Left Party has turned on the issue of Vattenfall's coal after the election. It's welcome. What about the bourgeois parties? The Christian Democrats and Liberals have talked in the media sweepingly about environmental requirements, but last time I checked, your parties stood for coal to be sold anyway. My question to you is: do you mean that whoever owns the lignite must promise to stick to Vattenfall's decision not to open new mines? I cannot see any other environmental requirement that would make a real difference. That was the Center Party. It is with surprise that I can see that the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, with their vagueness, are ahead of you in the Center Party, because I have not understood any environmental requirements whatsoever from you. On the contrary, you advocate a deal, any one, without having seen the evidence. A reminder: Vattenfall is the company that initiated the Nuon deal and carried it out during your shift. The picture of what the Center Party, Maud Olofsson and the entire then alliance government actually had is, to say the least, cloudy.
i-53799cdb94780c05-55	Madam President, I would like The Center Party does not want Vattenfall and the Swedish state to own and operate coal. That is why we were the driving force for changing the ownership directives when we were in government: Vattenfall should be one of the leading companies in Europe in terms of renewable energy. For this reason, the Center Party has also been clear for several years that we want to sell the non-Nordic business. Includes lignite. Our idea has been that the profit should go to investments in green technology. We believe that the research and development of renewable energy is an important aspect of being able to transform Europe so that it becomes more green. Some countries, such as Germany, have large amounts of lignite in their energy mix. Other countries, such as Poland, are almost entirely dependent on lignite and coal. The most important tool, in addition to investing in green technology, is to work at EU level. Jonas Sjöstedt says that the ETS system, i.e. the emission allowances, has failed. Yes, for the time being, but we have to do what we can to change that. This is the only way for Sweden to influence Europe's green transition. Today there are far too many emission allowances on the market. They are very cheap, and it pays to be an environmental villain. We want to change that. As emissions from fossil fuels become more expensive, we will see a shift. The simple answer, of course, is that the coal mines would never have been bought. They were bought at the beginning of the 21st century, which was done with the support of the Social Democratic Government but also with the support of the Green Party, although the Green Party does not want to know it today, and that is understandable. But that is not much to do about now. Vattenfall owns coal, and we must start from the reality that we have today. As sales have been delayed, the value of Vattenfall's assets has continued to decline, but some time ago, Vattenfall's Board of Directors chose to start a sales process. The coal business was tendered, and the winning bid came from the Czech company EPH. The question now lies with the owner's representative, that is, the government, too decisive. Given all the tours that have been in the media – there have been various bids on whether it is the Riksdag or the government that should make the decision – I want to be very clear. Ownership directives say that this is a matter for Vattenfall's board of directors and ultimately the owners' representatives, that is, the government. Thus, the government is responsible for whether it becomes a business or not. Our possibilities in Parliament to influence this decision are in fact very small. This is also confirmed by other sources: Sophie Nachemson-Ekwall-Ekwall, a researcher in corporate governance at the School of Economics, Daniel Stattin, Professor of Civil Law at Uppsala University, and Vattenfall's Chairman of the Board. It is believed that the government owns Vattenfall and that the government therefore has every opportunity to decide whether to sell or not. In addition, I know that Minister Damberg was in an interpellation debate last week, where he also confirmed that this was the case. You will remember that the Green Party in the election campaign used the famous coal piece in various debates, and it was clearly said: with the Green Party in the government, coal will remain in the ground. It doesn't seem that way today. Reality caught up, so did headache. It is clear that the government parties have not taken the same view on this issue. I fully understand that this is the first time that the Green Party has been in the government and that it was perhaps difficult to predict what the reality would be in a coalition government. But now you're in the government, and you're taking responsibility. Obviously you have been run over by the Social Democrats. Wouldn't it be better to admit it? I also ask myself: why has the Green Party been involved in initiating this debate? The deal's basically done. It's on the government table, and you'll decide. No matter how bad we feel about Vattenfall's coal operations, it is ultimately Germany that decides what their energy policy should look like – it is not Vattenfall and not the Swedish parliament. Once again, I want to be clear about the position of the Center Party on this issue. We haven't changed our minds. We have wanted to sell the non-Nordic business for many years. Includes lignite. We want to use the money from sales to renewable energy. And we also want to work at EU level to increase emissions and reduce the number of allowances. When it becomes too expensive to be an environmental villain, fossil fuels will be phased out for real. Only then can the coal stay in the ground for real.
i-53799cdb94780c05-68	Madam President, I would like I hope this government will be wise, green and responsible. I hope that it will take the unique decision to phase out Vattenfall's coal assets in Germany, not to sell them and not to open up the possibility of new mines being mined. I hope that it will take responsibility for cancelling the allowances associated with German production and withdrawing them from the emissions trading system that contains so many allowances to release too much at present. It would be a unique and responsible act. That would be reflected in the global environmental debate. This would make Sweden take the lead and take climate responsibility seriously. It would be to realise the proud promises made at the climate summit in Paris. I wish Sweden had such a government. Such an action, to go ahead and actually dismantle what is destroying our planet's climate, would increase Sweden's weight and credibility for the long future in international climate negotiations. That would make other countries consider us an example. That would mean discussing it here in other parliaments and calling on their governments to take the lead in a similar way. But it would also be an invitation to all those in Sweden who are thinking about buying an electric car, although it is more expensive and who are thinking about putting solar panels on the roof. They would think: Yes, if the government can take environmental responsibility and can phase out coal, I can also contribute. That's why it's important that you do the right thing now. If you are wrong, you are doing exactly the opposite. Then you will lower Sweden's credibility. In practice, you do not encourage people to take personal environmental responsibility. It becomes full of hypocrisy when the government does not do the same. This deal is also about economics. We don't know the details of the deal. There's a lot of evidence that it's a very bad deal economically. Any big profit to spend on other things, as you're talking about here, it won't be. It's also about ethics. EPH, the buyer, is a bad company. They don't have a lot of right. They have no environmental policy. They're linked to tax havens. They are owned by a few Czech oligarchs. Is that who we're going to leave the climate responsibility to? This is in danger of becoming the government's Nuon. But it's not just an economically indefensible affair. It is also a climate and ethically indefensible affair. There are some myths in the debate about Vattenfall and coal. One is already dismissed in this debate, including by Lars Helmered. Yes, the government owns the decision. You're free to stop the deal. There's nothing to stop you from stopping the deal. You own it. You have the decision in your hand. A second myth is that you would not be able to take environmental considerations into account when deciding the deal. That's wrong, too. It is written in the Ownership Directives that sustainability is part of the Vattenfall directives. And you in the government have already shown that it is possible. Among the first decisions the government made was that Vattenfall would not open new mines. It was a direct control of Vattenfall – for environmental reasons. It shows that it is possible to do this with the current ownership directives. A third myth is that emissions trading can fix this. I negotiated the Emissions Trading Directive during my time in the European Parliament. I saw the weaknesses already then. A carbon tax would have been better, a minimum tax at national level. But now we have this system. Unfortunately, very little indicates that it will work. It is up to those who own the fossil to phase out the fossil fuels, and we are one of the big owners in Sweden. You can't blame anything else. We ourselves are responsible for doing this right. Lise Nordin asked some very relevant questions in the debate. I hope that they will receive answers during the further discussion. One concerned the fact that Vattenfall does not only own the gigantic open pits. They also own the right to open new mines containing coal equivalent to 24 times Sweden's national emissions. That is exactly what must not happen. We know that the EPH has already said that it will try to open those mines. The mere fact that we want to open the new mines should be enough to say: this is not a sustainable business. But the question put by Lise Nordin also falls back on the Green Party. You're in the government. Is it not the case, the Green Party, that if the government approves of this, it also accepts that EPH is using the right to open new mines and emit 1.2 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide? Isn't that right? If so, is it not the responsibility of the Green Party to do so? The bourgeois parties rightly point out that this affair is the responsibility of the government. But you must have an opinion on what is the greatest climate decision in modern times. You must think something. Above all, I put the question to the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats: do you not want to impose any environmental requirements on this affair? Do you have nothing to say about the environment when it comes to such enormous emissions at stake? I hope you will say: yes, we do want to put environmental requirements on this deal. We do want, for example, to ensure that new mines cannot be opened. I believe that you are responsible for the answer in this debate.
i-53799cdb94780c05-77	Madam President, I would like In the debate on Vattenfall's lignite activities and the climate, the focus should be on sustainability. Waterfall coal mines emit 1.2 billion tons of carbon dioxide each year. This is more than all of Sweden's carbon dioxide emissions. These emissions are so high that they are clearly visible in global statistics, even. We are talking here about a very large environmental impact. Madam President, I would like I would like to start by recalling that the Liberals criticised the purchase of coal power when it was decided in 2001. Today, the climate issue is much higher on the political agenda, thankfully, and no Swedish government would come up with the idea of buying up new coal mines. The Swedish National Audit Office concluded in its report last year that Vattenfall's plan was originally to reduce CO2 emissions by using among other storage of carbon dioxide and partly through sales. Today, conditions have changed, and the main strategy has been to sell the company's German coal power. Madam President, I would like A year ago I visited one of Vattenfall's coal power plants in eastern Germany, the Welzow-Süd open-pit Welzow-Süd in the Lausitz region. Kilometer - length piles of soil were shot up to reach 70 metres below the earth's surface to the so - called black gold. Contrary to what one might think from a Swedish perspective, support for the business is quite strong among most local political parties and trade unions. At the same time, the German Government is painfully aware that Germany is in danger of breaching its own climate targets due to coal power. It is extremely embarrassing for Mrs Merkel to have signed the climate agreement in Paris and then have to admit that Germany does not even live up to what applies to its own climate emissions. The reason is German energy policy, where nuclear power will be phased out prematurely in six years' time for political reasons. It is also something that brings to mind the Swedish Government's policy of a final year for our nuclear power. The German energy decision, combined with a collapse in the price of coal, makes the coal power plants run full-time. When I was there it was told that the power plants have even been rebuilt in order to be able to interact more easily with wind power. The energy transition, which is a major part of renewable energy in the world, has coincided with a renaissance of coal power in Germany. Wind power thus goes hand in hand with coal power for a stable electricity supply. It is fine for German industry but tragic for the climate. The fact is that coal power, however dirty it is, unfortunately still plays a central role in German electricity supply. If Germany had chosen to deal with climate emissions and coal before phasing out nuclear power, this would not have been the case. Madam President, I would like I would like to return to the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the governance of Vattenfall from last year, which calls on the government to be better prepared to deal with the financial risk of continued ownership or a sale of German coal power. My first question to Mikael Damberg and Lise Nordin is therefore whether the government considers the sale of coal power to EPH to be commercial and whether the financial risks of the transaction have been addressed. As the Swedish National Audit Office pointed out last year, there is also a risk that Vattenfall, in order to achieve its financial exposure target, will sell its German coal power plants at a time that does not yield maximum sales value. My second question is therefore: is it really the right time to sell now? Is this a good opportunity for sales that best takes into account the economic and environmental interests of Swedish taxpayers? Madam President, I would like It is clear that the basis for the sale is primarily about the company having a portfolio that is fossil-free. However, we must not forget that the environmental aspect and the question of long-term sustainability should also be included in a position. As I said, sustainability is also mentioned in the Ownership Directive. As owner, Vattenfall should assume its environmental responsibility in particular for the restoration of open-pit mines in eastern Germany in a long-term and environmentally sustainable manner. Over the past year, an infected environmental debate has arisen in Berlin on pollution in the Spree River and the risks of drinking water there. It has turned out that old open pit mines from coal mining from the DDR era have been restored according to what was then thought to be all the rules of art, but they have now begun to leak poisons that spread all the way to Berlin. It is of course central that Vattenfall as a state-owned company is closely linked to the Swedish state and our Swedish brand takes the greatest possible environmental consideration to restore the local environment around open-pit mines. Vattenfall must ensure that no damage caused by the coal mines occurs at a later stage. Now that sales are up-to-date, the question arises: what environmental requirements have been imposed on the interested buyer under the Ownership Directives? My third question to Mrs Damberg and Mr Nordin is therefore: what environmental commitments has the EPH committed itself to in terms of long-term sustainability of the climate and restoration of nature in and around open-pit mines? Madam President, I would like I am content with this and look forward to Mrs Damberg's and Mr Nordin's answers to my questions.
i-53799cdb94780c05-89	Madam President, I would like For us Christian Democrats, the idea of stewardship is central, and it has always been. We believe that man has a responsibility to manage, and not to consume, the finite resources. Each generation bears a responsibility for future generations to advance a sustainable society with good conditions for people to live a healthy and healthy life without negative environmental impacts. But today, when we discuss Vattenfall's brown coal business in Germany and if the Swedish state is going to wind up or sell, does it feel more like I could do a travesting on Clash's old rockdäng Should I stay or should I go? It'll be wrong no matter how you do it here, it feels like. What is going to be particularly wrong is that the two government parties are speaking against each other – on the one hand and on the other. It is not possible to keep both the coal in the ground and to sell it for further mining. There's a path there. If we are to strive together for a society with a 100% renewable energy system, which is at least the vision of the Christian Democrats, we believe that there must be a realistic roadmap and a long-term perspective in the work needed to achieve this vision. There is no one here who can say that lignite and carbon dioxide emissions are not harmful to the environment and impair people's quality of life. At the same time, we must be able to accept that we have different views on what the road map for a fossil-free society should look like. Sometimes some parties make it appear that they have patents on how to deal with the threat to the environment and climate challenges and that it is only their path that exists. We Christian Democrats believe that this is not the case. When it comes to sustainability in decisions as extensive as Vattenfall's lignite operations in Germany, sustainability in addition to environmental considerations also includes social and economic aspects. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats believe that the primary task of the state should be to set out the framework and rules that apply to business as a whole, not really to own and run businesses. But since we as state owners have such a large portfolio of companies, it is particularly important that the state companies are run long-term and responsible, that they are transparent and that they are forerunners in terms of sustainability issues. It is also reasonable that there is a clear distinction between the State as legislator and as owner. Responsible corporate governance means that the owners' directives should lay down the long-term rules of the game for companies. Nor do I think that we – with the facts in hand – disagree that it was a really bad idea to buy the coal power plants in Germany. For a long time, therefore, the Christian Democrats have argued that European operations in Vattenfall have great built-in risks. We believe that neither ownership of carbon pollution nor major economic risks in competitive activities is in the interest of Swedish taxpayers. We therefore want the Swedish state's ownership of coal power plants in Germany to be terminated. Several of my colleagues who have previously been in the debate have mentioned Vattenfall's Ownership Directive, which contains both market returns and a business-driven energy business. It will also lead to environmentally sustainable energy production. We also agree – absolutely – but perhaps not on how this should happen. If this is the way I have read myself, Vattenfall itself has said that it should reduce its CO2 emissions by a fairly large proportion. Dismantling the lignite business reaches exactly the target set out in plan one and would be free of some 60 million tonnes of carbon dioxide annually. However, sales must be made on a sound commercial basis and within the ownership directives that Vattenfall has. We believe that it is the government's responsibility and that Vattenfall actually does so. If the assessment is that both the emission reduction target of about 23 million tonnes is reached in the business plan and that it is business-wise right to do so, then we Christian Democrats are very much in favour of sales. But then our view is that – and it is something that others have also raised in the debate – it is the responsibility of the German Government to implement the measures required in Germany to meet the EU's energy and climate goals. There, Sweden will be clear with the vision to strive for a 100 percent renewable energy system. I hope that the other parties in Parliament will share this vision with the Christian Democrats.
i-53799cdb94780c05-99	Madam President, I would like I've been asked a few questions. If we start with the question whether or not the government thinks it is a business matter, it is far too early to answer it. We are currently in a process of reviewing this transaction. We have received a request for ownership coordination, and the very idea of this is, as several of you have pointed out, to say yes or no to it. It is crystal clear, and that is why we have ownership coordination. Otherwise, you wouldn't have them. It goes without saying that I cannot answer that question now because we are in a process where we are preparing the case right now. I was also asked what demands we are making on Vattenfall regarding this type of business, such as how to look at the buyer. Then we have chosen to ask the company to use exactly the same review procedure or corporate compliance, as it is called in English, that the state uses in different types of business. The company has thus used exactly the same system that the state uses to review. There was also a question of what requirements are made in the deal and what happens to the restoration requirements and the responsibility that Vattenfall has today to restore land. It is very clear in the transaction, at least on the basis of Vattenfall's opinion, that the company that buys has the same requirement to operate as Vattenfall has in Germany. It is the same environmental requirement for this in Germany. The commitments made by Vattenfall regarding restoration are also included in the transaction, only to make it clear that this is the responsibility of the new buyer. I have some comments about questions about Vattenfall's control and mission. The Government has the task of actively managing the state's ownership in companies so that the long-term development of value is the best possible. The Articles of Association of Vattenfall state the subject matter of the company's activities, which is based on the mandate decided by the Riksdag. As some have quoted, Vattenfall will generate a market return by conducting energy business so that the company belongs to the companies that lead the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. The discussion has two parts: both profitability and leading the development towards sustainability. These are two parts of the objective, and this is one thing that the Swedish National Audit Office has criticised in reports. The previous government went to Parliament in 2010 to clarify the mission. In clarifying this, it was explained that it would sort out the dual mission and what is the basis of the operation. The Government wrote this in a bill to the Riksdag:...The Government considers profitability to be the basic prerequisite for the entire Vattenfall operations and survival. In addition, energy production and distribution are activities with very capital-intensive investments. A market return must therefore be the starting point for all operations in Vattenfall. ..................................................... This is quite clear, and the Industry Committee welcomed the clarification from the government in 2010 and explained that the uncertainty surrounding the mission statement was investigated. You, the Riksdag, have given this task both to the company and to us as the government to manage and be responsible for managing. That's the point of departure. However, as several have been involved, the transaction is quite complex. There are many dimensions here, so a proper analysis and a structured process are required. You know that the government has taken an interest in governance, called for a written request for ownership coordination and will receive a written response on this coordination. There will be no new Nuon process. It is also important that Vattenfall has been clear that this has so far been an economically profitable business. So it is not comparable to the Nuon haveriet. The government is now analysing the transaction, and we will come back once we have taken a position.
i-53799cdb94780c05-112	Madam President, I would like I began my first speech by stating that the future of German lignite in Vattenfall lies on the knees of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. I think it has become increasingly clear and confirmed that this is the case. This is clarification, because there has been a broad public debate on how this would be. It is not just those like me – representatives of the opposition – who say this, but leading scientists, representatives of the company and others express the same thing. It is good that this is interpreted. It is clear to us, Madam President, that such an affair as we are talking about should take its starting point in the assumptions about the economy, the strategic choices, what it would mean for Vattenfall and sustainability aspects. We believe that this should form the basis for the independent review that the government now has to do. We must remember that it is the company and the government that are working on this affair and who have insight into all its constituent parts, some of which are classified. They are the ones who are going to do the overall analysis, and it is not just about the economy. It should also be borne in mind, Madam President, that simply because a state-owned company is handing over a question to the government does not mean that it has to say yes by definition, but it is an independent and own review in this. When it comes to energy policy, sustainability and the environment in Europe, for our part, it is the ETS that is the answer to driving environmental developments forward. That is where we price emissions, and that is where we should lead the development forward. It is important to note that it is the German people and German politicians who decide the German energy policy, just as we in Sweden want to decide how we should have our future energy mix or forest policy, where we see several Swedish challenges in the future. In the debate, Madam President, the issue of ownership directives has also been raised. I think it might be appropriate to note that before the elections, the Green Party promised new owners' directives for Vattenfall. A working group was appointed under Mikael Damberg's leadership in October 2014, including Minister Bolund, Baylan and Romson. The government chose to close the working group after a month. The government has not returned and put any proposals for new ownership directives on Parliament's table. I think that this type of input in the debate is quite flat. I argue that the directive that Vattenfall has is clear and provides the government with a proper opportunity to make demands of commercialism and a comprehensive analysis of what such a deal can mean. To conclude, Madam President, we are going into this with divisions, which have been a hot issue for a long time. For the same time, it has been unclear what the government wants, with different messages on different occasions from the government's various ministers. It is, in fact, time for them to take responsibility now and to have a clear and clear view so that both parties that are part of the government stand up for the agreements and arrangements they make among themselves in a government. Madam President, I would like What is ultimately about the Green Party in this is being able to ask a cabinet question. If coal is as important as they say, it is ultimately about either leaving the government or standing up for the agreements you make with the Social Democrats and stopping blaming other parties and trying to push the issue over to Parliament.
i-53799cdb94780c05-123	Madam President, I would like The Left Party, which has requested this debate, recently had its Congress, where proposals were made by the Party Executive Board that nuclear decommissioning should take account of the potential of Swedish nuclear power to contribute to the reduction of emissions from fossil power plants on the North European electricity market. This proposal did not win, and the party board lost in the vote at the meeting. Now the Left Party has taken a position where both nuclear power and coal power should be phased out as soon as possible, while the other energy policy creates an increased demand for planned power generation in winter. A reasonable question for the Left Party and the parties advocating the closure of the business would be to tell us how much it is reasonable to believe that this should and must cost taxpayers. The company has commented that it states in its own assessment that the continued operation of the company is likely to lead to higher costs for the company. From the Swedish Democratic side, we can see that the political risk is sky-high in the German energy market, with strong, politically decided subsidies, which are, of course, difficult to price at risk for continued activity. Madam President, I would like The climate ambitions associated with the reduction of CO2 emissions expressed in this debate are rather remarkable linked to the energy policy pursued by the government, with some support from some of the opposition parties, with high hopes for weather-dependent forces, which also drives Sweden into a situation where politically decided subsidies create unprofitability in planned power generation such as hydropower, nuclear power and renewable cogeneration. This policy risks forcing Sweden into a situation in which, in the cold months of the winter, we will find ourselves in a severe imbalance in production capacity and where we become heavily dependent on imports of large quantities of electricity. In the past winter alone, we could see how quickly a favorable situation changes to the opposite. When the cold grew and the wind was ripe, we had to import well over 2,000 megawatts of electric power to Sweden to maintain the power balance. This is something that reminds us once again that the increased, weather-dependent power generation puts us in a situation where we are increasingly forced to rely on imports from our neighbouring countries in order not to have to deal with our power shortage with disconnections from the grid. As the wind has grown with us, it has, as a rule, done so in our neighbouring countries as well. The electricity that we are then forced to import comes mainly from our neighbours in the power system, such as Denmark, Germany and Poland. The power generation that we then depend on in Sweden is above all dirty coal power, where the emissions of climate gases as a result of power production are significant, which is in contrast to Sweden's in practice completely climate neutral power systems, with primarily nuclear power and hydropower. Madam President, I would like It feels somewhat unrealistic to focus on individual closures linked to the climate impact with their carbon dioxide emissions, as the rest of energy policy increases our vulnerability during the cold winter months and creates needs and demand from these particular plants.
i-53799cdb94780c05-132	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that today we are having this current debate on Vattenfall's lignite so that we can have a clarification that the government has to say yes or no to the deal. The review is now under way on the basis of the ownership directives decided by the Riksdag in 2010. In response to Lars Helmered and the Moderates: Both he and I know that if it is going to new owner directives for such a deal, for example, it is the Riksdag that needs to adopt them. All parties in this House have a responsibility for what they want with Vattenfall's lignite. The Center Party chose not to comment on the Nuon affair and the lessons that I think we should all learn about the importance of this kind of business being examined very carefully, what is now going on. Hasn't the Center Party learned anything after the Nuon affair? There was a question from the Left Party about the expansion of mines that the government, together with Vattenfall, stopped about a year ago. What happened at the time was that Vattenfall's board and the government reached a consensus about stopping the expansion. Today we are in a different position, because Vattenfall's board has proposed a sale. This requires so-called formal governance, in which the government must give a formal answer to the review that is now being carried out. It has also been referred in the debate to the fact that the EU's climate policy would be the only important thing. We cannot, I mean, put responsible ownership control of Vattenfall against active climate action in the EU. On the contrary, we must work with both. If we work with both at the same time, the climate gains could be greater. Not wanting to steer Vattenfall responsibly and give owner directives with clearer climate control is to give away one of the opportunities that we have in our climate work. The emissions trading that we have in the EU, which in theory is supposed to govern climate action, has not really worked at any time. Today, the EU ETS is not the driving force for reducing climate emissions because we have always had too much surplus. The attempts by, among others, environmental-partisan MEPs to tighten up the system have been voted down. We have to work on all the roads we have to keep the coal in the ground. We need to be able to talk about both the current, important issue of Vattenfall's lignite and how to tighten up the EU's climate policy. There are many questions that have not been answered in the debate. I still wish to know what assessment the bourgeois parties make of the ownership directives that they themselves decided on in 2010, how they respond to the deal that we now have on the table. We need to be able to discuss two things at the same time, both business and sustainability. No one should doubt the opinion of the Green Party. We want the coal to stay in the ground, and we're working on all fronts to make it happen.
i-53799cdb94780c05-141	Madam President, I would like Lise Nordin talks about the Nuon affair and points to the Center Party and wonders if we have learned nothing. Does Lise Nordin have so little argument that Lise Nordin has to discuss other issues that are already settled? Can't she stick to the current debate on Vattenfall and lignite? This seems to me to indicate a degree of desperation on the part of the Green Party. There were some questions from both Jonas Sjöstedt and Lise Nordin, if the Center Party does not want to ask environmental requirements on the deal. Lise Nordin also asked if the Center Party would be willing to sell to any company. The tendering procedure has already been completed. It is difficult to make demands afterwards when you have already gone out and Vattenfall's board has also pointed out Czech EPH as the buyer of lignite. Lise Nordin asks me if we can sell to anyone. No, the Center Party doesn't want to sell to anyone. But I think Lise Nordin is guilty of the answer. The Green Party is in the government, and the government parties should probably have more transparency in Vattenfall's bidding process and business, as you, as I know, meet quite closely. Therefore, Lise Nordin : You are the answer guilty! On Wednesday in Dagens Industri we could read about another move by Minister of the Environment Åsa Romson and the Environmental Party about Vattenfall and lignite operations. This is the third move by the Green Party since the elections. Now Romson says, "As a climate minister, I have never seen the owner of a coal mine as the most important issue for climate policy. And as soon as she goes on to say, without it, the emissions from the mine, and they are being put in the EU's emissions trading rules today, and that is where I have put my gunpowder. ..................................................... The latter approach agrees with the Center Party. When allowances become far too expensive, it will cost to be an environmental villain. This, together with green technology, is what can compete with fossil fuels, that is, the only way to keep coal in the ground. But this move is still interesting. In the election campaign, the Green Party said that you would not contribute to the sale of Vattenfall. Now the Minister for the Environment says it doesn't matter which company owns the lignite. In the election movement, the Green Party also said that coal will remain in the ground if the Green Party comes into government. But that does not seem to be the case today. Now you seem to be more in favour of a sale. We have also heard the argument: You have to change the ownership directives in the Riksdag, and because there is no majority for it, says the Green Party, you cannot do anything. But the fact is, Lise Nordin, you can. You can say no to the store. It's step number one. The truth is, you've been run over by the Social Democrats. Instead, you are trying to dupe the environment and get voters who have trusted you to believe that it is everyone else's fault. On top of that, your Minister for the Environment is now making a statement saying that the only thing that makes a difference in reducing the share of lignite is to lower the cap on emission allowances. Again, why has the Green Party initiated a debate on this today? The sale is already a fact, isn't it? Since it is stated in the owner's directives that the Vattenfall deal should be handled by the board and the owner, i.e. the government, this feels much more like a game for the galleries from the Green Party.
i-53799cdb94780c05-153	Madam President, I would like The question has been put to the bourgeois parties if they want to put environmental requirements on the store. I believe that the Liberals have expressed their wish because they ask the government about such environmental requirements. Surprisingly, the Center Party does not want to impose any environmental requirements on the largest climate deal in modern Swedish history. I find that extremely surprising for a party that calls itself green. I hope the Christian Democrats will answer the question. I believe that Lise Nordin confirms that if you sell to EPH, they have the full right to open the mines that the government said Vattenfall would not open. It's huge emissions, that's all. And that alone is reason enough to turn down this deal for climate reasons. The Green Party is talking about the climate issue. I do not mean the Social Democrats – they talk about other things in particular. I very much regret that we do not see the whole of climate policy. But if you do not see how disastrous such a decision would be for the climate, perhaps you can look at the ethics. The question is: can the Social Democrats defend sales to buyers EPH and PPF? Is it social democratic policy to sell out state companies, or parts of them, to this type of company? Who's going to buy? It is not just the case that the company is owned by Czech billionaires and oligarchs. This company lacks an environmental and sustainability report. In the largest climate-affected deal in Sweden's history, you should sell to a company that does not even have a policy regarding the environment and climate. Is it reasonable to do that? The construction is classic for companies that want to avoid taxation. The owners are located in four letterbox companies in tax havens. We find the old regular Channel Islands that you use when you want to blow taxpayers on their tax money. Is it social democratic policy to sell companies to a new owner who clearly does everything to avoid taxation? These are things that Mikael Damberg and Magdalena Andersson tend to rage against in this pulpit. The new proposed owners do not comply with the OECD basic guidelines for multinational companies. I thought we would demand that multinationals behave a little better, that they have some code of conduct and that it matters whether they follow the recommendations or not. EPH escapes from the responsibility of restoring the land during mining. They spend considerably less money for their mines in Germany than Vattenfall and other big owners do. They fail to set aside the money needed to take environmental responsibility on the day the mining has ended. Is it reasonable to sell to a company that seems to be preparing to take a run bill on the environment in the future? The company has been convicted of obstructing a corruption investigation. Is it serious? Can we sell to companies that are not involved in corruption investigations? Is that reasonable? Is that possible? A senior executive of this company is now suspected of bribery and tax fraud linked to the company. Is it the kind of company that the Swedish government is going to do business with? Last but not least, the EPH aims to increase the use of coal in Europe. They aim to destroy our climate more. If you do not see this as a climate deal, at least consider it an affair with major ethical problems! I know Mikael Damberg doesn't want to repeat the Nuon deal. Perhaps it is time to think again before doing something as unwise.
i-53799cdb94780c05-166	I would like to remind you that statements of opinion from the gallery are not permitted.
i-53799cdb94780c05-167	Madam President, I would like Lise Nordin asked me about the ownership directives. Liberals do not propose to amend the directives. We believe that they give room to say yes or no to a sale. This space is available in the context of business and sustainability. Those are the two legs that are included there. Madam President, I would like Let me return to the environmental aspects of a sale. I would like to know how the government ensures that these aspects are dealt with. We have been told that the same commitments as Vattenfall are in force. Then, of course, I wonder: Who are they? Are we at risk of a situation in which the city of Berlin will be suing Sweden in 20 years' time because Vattenfall mining has helped to destroy drinking water in the city? It is still obscured exactly how these sustainability issues are examined by the government. I would therefore be grateful for a more specific answer. Unlike the government, which sits on a lot of information about these sales, we are referring to media data and a number of sweeping responses in the debate here today. It is media data which, moreover, states precisely that the EPH has not shown very good judgment in previous cases, where it has not handled in any responsible way the property and power plants that it has had to take care of, nor has it shown any understanding of environmental considerations. We have not received sufficient information on the environment, but the government will have to raise the environmental profile a little in this context.
i-53799cdb94780c05-171	Madam President, I would like In fact, the Christian Democrats were the first party to ask the question at all whether environmental requirements had been set in the sales documents. I have also asked the question of what method has been used to do so, or whether it has even been interesting to do so. We heard the government here say that compliance is used. When you buy companies there is also something called due diligence. Regardless of this, when it comes to commercial purchases and sales of companies, it is clear that, in view of all the sustainability directives that apply to all companies in the EU, it should also be thought so when, as a state-owned company in Sweden, you are selling your business to another company no matter where in the world it comes from or what business this company will carry out in the future. That is the whole question. If we now sell the lignite business, how will the company that buys manage, liquidate or develop this business? Regardless of how negative we are about lignite activities and the negative environmental impact it brings with it, I repeat that in the end, although we set environmental requirements that I wish we had made much clearer – the Government could have told us about it much more clearly from the Parliament's pulpit – yet Germany and the German state are responsible for making demands on the companies operating in the country to meet the EU's climate and energy goals in the same way as the Swedish state places demands on the companies and companies operating in Sweden. The fact that Germany has chosen to decide on the closure of its nuclear power plants by 2022 and is supposed to remain dependent on coal, of course, plays in the hands of those who mainly see revenues and do not have the environment in focus. But it is, once again, Germany that must decide for itself whether it is of greater value with the high CO2 emissions produced by coal power, or whether they had more quickly reached their goal of a renewable society and a renewable energy system by allowing nuclear power to remain longer. As owner of the Swedish companies, the Swedish Parliament and the Swedish State still have a great opportunity to influence the outside world in terms of the vision of a 100% renewable energy system. That is why emissions trading is interesting. We Christian Democrats really want all greenhouse gases to be covered by this trading system, that the whole transport sector and other sectors with high emissions should be covered, and that, in the long term, the trading system should be a global system. There I am curious about what Minister Damberg said in his introduction. Are the allowances retained by Vattenfall? What would it mean in terms of reducing Europe's CO2 emissions if Vattenfall were to maintain and cancel the allowances? That is a question to which I would like to have an answer.
i-53799cdb94780c05-177	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. It is clear that allowances and price hedges are not included in this transaction. They have a value of many billions of dollars. It is the company that has to deal with these issues, and they should do so commercially. It is the assets of the Swedish people that we have to manage. It is therefore important that this is done in a commercial way. As far as climate policy is concerned, I mentioned this in my introduction, although six minutes is not a very long time. I would like to say that the first thing you look at is the government's budget work. I would like to describe it as the government, in cooperation with the Left Party, has put the most radical climate and environmental budget ever on Parliament's table. We take these issues very seriously. The work takes place in so many different areas, from the question of how we proceed in the transport system – how we make larger investments in solar panels around Sweden and how we build the next generation of transport solutions with charging poles in Sweden that allow you to drive the car on electricity – to the local investment programmes that enable you to drive climate investments at local and regional level around Sweden. It is a very offensive climate policy in our own country. If we look internationally, and not least in Europe, the EU ETS has a very important role to play. After all, the current emissions trading system has the ambition to reduce emissions by 21% by 2020, but EU leaders and Heads of Government have also decided on a new framework for reducing CO2 emissions by 41% by 2030. It is an incredibly important piece of work that Europe now has before it in terms of reducing emissions in Europe. It is also important to see that Vattenfall as an energy company has an important role to play. In its new strategic direction, Vattenfall has said that it should be a driving force in the renewal of the energy system – that in principle all new investments are made 100% renewable. It's a huge change in Vattenfall's business we're looking at.
i-53799cdb94780c05-182	Madam President, I would like Vattenfall is an extremely important company that exists in many markets. This is of great importance for the Swedish electricity system with a lot of nuclear power, hydropower and more in Sweden, and the company has a large number of operations in other countries. What Vattenfall does is of great importance to Sweden, Germany and the European energy market. Our starting point in the discussion about German lignite is that such a deal should be based on the premise of economics, strategic choices and sustainability. In the division of responsibilities it is the government that will now conduct an independent review, based on it and then return with its decision. We assume that the Riksdag will be kept informed about the sales process and the final position. Let me just briefly return to the ownership directives and to Lise Nordin's comment, Madam President. We can see that the government had a working group that was closed down. We note that no proposal has been put on Parliament's table. We can see that there have been no contacts between the parties. I think it is rather flat to highlight such an ownership directive discussion. It is the government – the Green Party and the Social Democrats – that now has to decide. You want to sell or keep? We know the history. It is a hot issue, and the government is deeply divided. Different ministers give different answers on different occasions. It is worrying, and it is not responsible. It's coming back, too. When one says that this issue is so important, one can also decide – is it so important that one chooses to leave the government, or is one behind the kind of agreements and arrangements that a government makes? It is really just to choose and stop blaming others. Now it's the government's question. It's up to proof of Lövin and Löfven.
i-53799cdb94780c05-187	Madam President, I would like In my closing speech, I would like to say at the outset that the government is in no way prevented from giving up sales linked to commercial requirements in the business. But it now chooses, as in many other issues, to make a turnaround and, in part, claims that the ownership directives are forced to sell the business. It should be pointed out that it is precisely the government that manages the state's assets – not the Riksdag. The government is allowed to assume its responsibilities, and it is clear that it is now likely that a sale would be the most responsible. It is a message that would also be a direct betrayal of those environmentalist voters who were promised something else during the election campaign. Instead, the owners' directives are now being used as an umbrella to protect themselves against the criticism that has arisen, as we are unclear about what we want politically. The Parliament does not have the same transparency in the transaction as the Government, which is perfectly reasonable given that it is not the Riksdag that manages the state's assets. Our idea of and our general entry into Vattenfall's activities outside the domestic market is that it should be phased out in an orderly manner, for the benefit of taxpayers. Instead, the focus should be on primarily protecting the Swedish electricity supply from a long-term perspective. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, it cannot be stressed enough in this debate that it is German politicians and the German people who will determine Germany's energy mix and what it should look like. The Swedish Government, the Riksdag or the Left Party should not do so.
i-53799cdb94780c05-191	Madam President, I would like The Center Party says that the deal seems clear and that this is a game for the galleries. Oh, no! You don't seem to have learned from the Nuon affair if you think the government is going to handle business that way – let business through without scrutiny. At the moment, a serious review is under way within the Government Office, which examines the deal on the basis of the ownership directives and requirements for commercialism and sustainability that exist. The Green Party is very active in the work of twisting and reversing all the demands that need to be made on such a deal. Helena Lindahl also referred to Åsa Romson and the statement that it is not crucial who owns the coal. That is quite correct. Let me make it clear: the Green Party is not a principle for Vattenfall to own lignite. Our work is based on how we find a solution to phase out lignite and meet the climate challenge. The climate is the destiny of our time. To meet the climate challenge, most of the fossil energy needs to stay in the ground. The Green Party has been working for a long time and will continue to work to ensure that coal remains in the soil in all contexts, both in the UN and the EU and in Sweden – and in the case of Vattenfall's lignite. Madam President, I would like Let the coal lie.
i-53799cdb94780c05-195	Madam President, I would like If you in the Left Party are serious about stopping the sale of Vattenfall's lignite, you have every chance of doing so, Jonas Sjöstedt. Because the government is dependent on your goodwill to get through, for example, the budget, so you can – if you really want – put ultimatums to stop the sale. Why don't you? I would like to stress once again that the Center Party has in no way changed its mind. We have been in the same position for years, and we want to continue to see a sale of the non-Nordic business with lignite. We want to use the money from one sale to invest more in renewable energy and put the gunpowder on the EU emissions trading system. The question of lignite and the negative climate impact it entails is not really just about Vattenfall's sale of lignite the company owns in Germany. The question is much bigger than that, Jonas Sjöstedt. For Germany and Europe to be able to switch and for the EU countries to be able to leave fossil fuels, we need to make it more expensive to be an environmental villain. The best thing we can do then is to get the EU to reduce the number of allowances, which today is far too cheap – and also raise the price. Only when companies pay a great deal of money for their CO2 emissions will the green option be considered. Let us together do what we can to keep coal in the ground, Jonas Sjöstedt – not only in Germany but throughout Europe!
i-53799cdb94780c05-199	I would like to remind you once again that expressions of opinion from the gallery are not permitted.
i-53799cdb94780c05-200	Madam President, I would like I agree with Helena Lindahl that we should do what we can, and we have something ahead of us that we can do: we can leave the coal in the ground and cancel the allowances. We know that's the absolute best thing. Minister Damberg points out that emission allowances are not part of the transaction. This is true in a formal sense, but in other contexts – in the media – Vattenfall's representatives admit that the allowances will be sold in a separate transaction. So it is a bit misleading for the audience here to claim that there are no allowances in the deal. When I was at the gigantic open Welzov-Süd Welzov-Süd, it became so obvious what an enormous environmental degradation it is all about. The nearby chimneys are spewing out carbon dioxide. Behind this open pit is a small village called Proschim. Proschim is at the forefront of renewable energy. There is solar electricity, wind power and biogas. If I remember correctly, they produce eight times more energy than they consume. If Vattenfall mine is expanded as EPH wants, Proschim will be leveled with the ground. Then we'll all be moving. It is ancient times that conquer the future. Renewables are the future. It works and it is competitive. I would like Vattenfall to phase out coal and help to expand the renewable so that we got more Proschim in Germany and elsewhere – instead of the future village being wiped out as the EPH intends to do.
i-53799cdb94780c05-205	I would like to remind you once again that public opinion is not permitted in the gallery.
i-53799cdb94780c05-207	Madam President, I would like I find it incontrovertible that the Green Party should start and finish its speeches with a view to letting coal lie, while sitting in government and having the opportunity to influence the issue. Is it an activist or responsible government party? Moreover, it is still obscured what exactly the Green Party has done to guarantee all the requirements of the sales process that the Minister for Economic Affairs is talking about. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say something about the emission allowances, which have been up for discussion here. It is basically a very good system, but we know that it is now at EUR 7 per tonne of carbon dioxide. It's far too little. Honouring all those in this House who I know have been working on trying to tighten emission allowances in different ways. Environmental experts in Germany confirm that even if the price of carbon dioxide were to rise to EUR 95 per tonne, the German coal mines would remain profitable. I emphasise this to point out that although we succeed in making tenfold the price of emission allowances, the responsibility for coal power and emissions lies ultimately with the German Government. Only the German government can decide to phase out the country's coal power. Fortunately, there is already an intensive coal debate in Germany. Proposals for an ambitious national CO2 tax have been discussed, albeit also severely criticised, from the colloquium. The decision has been taken to place parts of coal power in a so-called climate reserve. The role of Vattenfall in such a sales process is therefore important. Of course, the seller has the opportunity to make demands on the buyer regarding environmental commitments. And there is a reason why, for example, the German environmental movement has more confidence in Vattenfall than in EPH. This confidence must be safeguarded by placing all the necessary environmental requirements in such a sales process and by being aware of the type of buyer we are dealing with. For the Liberals, it is crucial that sales focus not only on commercialism but also on sustainability issues. I think Vattenfall can make a difference here, but then the demands must be clear.
i-53799cdb94780c05-213	Madam President, I would like I wonder if the visitors we just had in the gallery do not destroy for their purposes rather than contribute to something good. Here in the Swedish Parliament we can have respect for different opinions, which I think we have in this debate as well. We can see one thing, as the facts state quite clearly, namely that in terms of business, Vattenfall is under strain. Vattenfall accounts for almost half of the turnover in the government portfolio. Net sales fell by 1.4 billion last year, mainly due to lower electricity prices. But the result was also burdened by impairments for nuclear power in Sweden and lignite in Germany with SEK 36.8 billion. In addition to this, we know that the impact tax here in Sweden is another burden on nuclear power. But again, this is not just about economic but also about environmental reasons and to some extent social reasons. I am not at all proud of the sale of lignite to Czech EPH. It is not a company that has any major environmental ambitions. I would have liked there to have been a clear desire in the sales document from the outset for the buyer to be able to present their environmental objectives, including social responsibility and what they had for the decommissioning and restoration of the provinces when the German state decided that lignite should be phased out. Finally, I note, Madam President, that I did not receive an answer from the Government to the question of whether it is right, in business terms, not to cancel emission allowances, if now also the environment and social sustainability are still to be included in the objectives of Vattenfall's activities.
i-53799cdb94780c05-217	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate on an important issue. We are now in the middle of a process in which we examine this transaction. Judging by the speeches, there is a large although not 100% consensus that lignite is not part of the future energy solution for either Sweden or Europe. We know that the future is renewable and fossil-free. As I said, we are now in a process of examining this, and Germany has a great deal of responsibility for German energy policy. We also have a shared responsibility to push for the EU ETS to be effective and strong enough to reduce emissions on our continent. We must also take care of and strengthen Vattenfall for the future. Vattenfall shall conduct its business in a commercial manner. We have discussed this today, and the government has to deal with it. When I hear Jonas Sjöstedt, it becomes clear that commercialism does not come at the top of the Left Party agenda on this issue either. But it is important that Vattenfall becomes an economically strong company to manage to make the investments required in smart grids and in the energy transition of the future. Vattenfall is thus still an important and strong company in Sweden. However, it becomes an even more important company in the transformation of the energy system we are in the middle of.
i-53799cdb94780c05-226	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the new legislation on hunting in the mountain environment does not conflict with EU law. The mountain environment's fauna is a natural resource to be managed in a sustainable way. The conditions for mountain hunting must be designed in a way that benefits both the specific nature of the mountain and the wild populations. Since 2007, foreign hunters have been granted the right to non-professional small game hunting and hand-gear fishing on state land above the cultivation limit and on reindeer grazing mountains under the same conditions as Swedish hunters. It has been said that the influx of foreign hunters in these areas has been high, which has led to increased congestion in the mountains. It has also been said that some foreign hunters lack knowledge of the special nature of the mountain world that has been considered fundamental for Swedish wildlife conservation and hunting and that this risks damaging the nature of the mountain world and a long-term sustainable hunting in the areas in question. In this context, the Riksdag has also announced that the government should, in the long term, ensure mountain hunting and review the rules on hunting rights for mountain hunting in order to return to the regulation as it was designed before 2007. In a later announcement, the Parliament has referred to a previous announcement and stated that there should be a review of how, within the framework of EU law, the hunting of state land above the cultivation limit and on reindeer grazing mountains can be ensured in the long term. It is against this background that the government is reviewing the current rules. A number of consultation bodies have questioned whether the proposed amendment is compatible with EU law. This is a complex issue, which the government is currently analysing. The government is working to bring about changes that are compatible with EU law.
i-53799cdb94780c05-234	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Today, the Swedish mountain hunt is open to EU citizens in the way the Minister described it. Hunters without Swedish citizenship can solve hunting cards and do small game hunting in the Swedish mountains. Unfortunately, many foreign hunters lack deeper knowledge of the mountain world, which can have negative consequences for the animals and nature of the mountain world. In the election campaign, the minister promised to resolve this in a week, and more than a week has passed. However, I think that the proposal put forward by the government is fundamentally good. The question is, as the Minister says, that this proposal will not pass and fulfil the requirements of EU law. In such cases, there will be a setback that would not be good. The criticism of the proposal is that it is indirectly discriminatory against EU citizens other than Swedish citizens. The Government's proposal is related to Sweden. It may be useful if it crosses EU law and meets the requirements of the law, but it is also risky. I can imagine that this is why the Minister has not yet tabled the proposal and refers to further preparation. Madam President, I would like I am not in any way seeking conflict on this issue, but I hope that the Minister will be able to present a good proposal to Parliament. Even previous governments deserve criticism. This applies both when EU membership was negotiated by a red government and when changes were made by a blue government. Now it is dealt with again by a red government. Several governments are therefore responsible for this. I think that both I and the Minister want exactly the same thing, that is to ensure that hunting in the Swedish mountain world takes place in a good and safe way that meets all the requirements and that the Swedish hunters continue to have access to small game hunting in the mountains. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister is quite simple: will the Minister present the proposal? If the Minister is in doubt, I have three proposals which I think the Minister should consider working into. The first is about Norway. Norway is not an EU country. The EEA Agreement allows Norwegian citizens to be discriminated against as Norway does against Swedish hunters. This would ease the pressure considerably because most people who come from abroad and hunt in Sweden are from Norway. I would like the Minister to look at this. The second is about demands for Swedish hunters. The Minister should take a look at that. The requirement should be made for those who do not have Swedish hunters to have a Swedish hunting guide with them. The third thing that the Minister can consider including in this work is language requirements. You could demand that foreign hunters who do not speak Swedish and come here and hunt have a Swedish hunting guide. All this aims to ensure that hunting takes place in a safe way for humans and for animals and nature in the Swedish mountain world. I hope that the Minister can answer the first question or at least comment on one of the proposals I have submitted. Will the Minister present the proposal that the Government has worked out?
i-53799cdb94780c05-250	Madam President, I would like Mountain hunting is an important issue, not least for rural areas in Norrbotten, Västerbotten and Jämtland County. It is a long-standing tradition and an important leisure activity for many people. Mountain hunting also provides the opportunity for unique nature experiences in our Swedish mountain environment. We must protect our game tribes so that they are not overexploited. Let's look at our western neighbour, Norway, which Edward Riedl has been into. There have recently been red-listed valley and mountain ripa. This is not because the tribes have been protected, but because they have come to the point where they have been overexploited. We can't come there. It must be a long-term sustainable management of the game tribes – in this case the game that is being pushed on the mountain hunt. The Parliament has also announced twice that a change will be made. I agree with Parliament that it is important that we find a solution. It's true that I had an ambition to do the job faster. Edward Riedl gives a picture of me not doing anything, but the previous government made a mess of this. In fact, the disorder persisted for eight years. Now it has been a year and a half, and we will try to bring order into this as well. There are also other areas where we are trying to bring order to the former government. There are some countries that have similar systems that we have referred to. The Finns have a system that goes even further than our system. We have chosen to copy the Danish system. The European Commission has looked at the Danish system, but they have not found anything that goes against it. We are now working on it. We have received a number of referrals, and we will make our balances before we can make a proposal.
i-53799cdb94780c05-254	Madam President, I would like I did not try in any way to make the Minister appear to be slow or paralysed, if the Minister interprets it that way. On the contrary, I have said that previous governments, both red and blue, deserve criticism. I think the Minister has made a good proposal. Something was supposed to happen to the proposal right now. I cannot help commenting, Madam President, that before he became a minister in the election movement, the minister promised that the issue could be resolved in a week. I note that it has been more than a week and the issue is still unresolved. I think that the present proposal is good if it also meets the requirements of EU law. That's the question. That is why I tried to bring in some proposals for the Minister, which I think can be supplemented with. There is great pressure not least from Norway and Norwegian hunters, while Norway does not allow Swedish hunters to join the Norwegian hunt. We should deal with this in Sweden. There have been several such situations with Norway and the Norwegian Government, for example in the case of driving licences for snowmobiles. N orsk driver's certificate is valid in Sweden, but Swedish driver's certificate does not apply in Norway. I have discussed this several times with the Minister for Infrastructure. There are several ongoing conflicts with Norway on this issue. I think that we can comply with the EEA Agreement and use the same kind of restrictions against Norway as Norway does against Sweden. This would significantly ease the pressure in the Swedish mountain world, and it would be easy. I would like the Minister to make a reasonable comment on this. Does the Minister think that Sweden can do the same as Norway does to Sweden? The second part is about long-term setting the right kind of requirements for foreign hunters who come to Sweden. There, I think, skills and language requirements can be set. It is a matter of ensuring that the hunt is carried out safely and properly. If they cannot meet the criteria, they should reasonably bring a Swedish hunting guide to ensure that the hunt is carried out in a safe and correct manner. It can play a part in the work if it takes time to present the proposal. I understand why it takes time. This is not an easy question. I have no doubt at all about the Minister's commitment to this issue. We have just as much commitment to this issue. I would like the Minister to comment on the question that no legislative proposal has yet been tabled. Is it possible to look at the other parts if it is difficult to present the proposal?
i-53799cdb94780c05-260	Madam President, I would like I could not help but get up on this important issue. Thank you, Minister Bucht, for your answer. Thanks also to Edward Riedl, who writes many interpellations. This interpellation is good. Mrs. Old President! Is game management compatible with EU law? Should game management be confused with free movement and trade in goods and services? Wild game management rests in all other cases on the EU's directive on species and habitats. In all other cases of the granting of hunting, the landowner, the holder of the hunting right and the Swedish State impose conditions for the granting of hunting and the sale of hunting cards. Mrs. Old President! Why is it that in the case of free mountain hunting, the state has chosen to consciously have an open interpretation with free hunting rights? What both Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and Edward Riedl report has consequences in some places. It will be impossible to maintain a working order and game management. Therefore, the demands that have come from the House and from the country, from the regions and counties concerned, to tighten up the regulatory framework are reasonable. Those living and working in the counties manage the game tribes throughout the year, and they shall be given a reasonable opportunity to participate. It is not at all a question of excluding foreign hunters, it is a question of getting a functioning regulatory framework in place. The County Administrative Board of Västerbotten had a regulations in place between 2005 and 2006 with hunting guide requirements during the first hectic weeks. It worked very well. It was about getting balance and order on the most vulnerable mountain slopes. It is reasonable that the county administrative boards and responsible wildlife management delegations should be given the opportunity to develop a regulatory framework that works for that particular county. The pressure is different. We know that there is maximum pressure in Jämtland. In parts of Västerbotten there is a high pressure. In parts of Norrbotten it is more varied. In some places the pressure is strong from Norwegian hunters in particular, as there are strict restrictions on the rip hunt in Norway. They choose to go over to Sweden, and in some cases they misbehave. This applies far from everyone, but it requires that we decide politically on working regulations for game management in the mountains.
i-53799cdb94780c05-263	Mrs. Old President! I take note of the three proposals made by Edward Riedl. Ultimately, it is about creating order and getting a functioning system in reality. Just as Isak From said in his speech, it looks different in the different counties. The situation is different, and it must be adapted to the realities of the situation. We have chosen the Danish model because we think it would be appropriate to create order and order, and it has not been criticised by the European Union. Therefore, it would be a prerequisite to pass such a test as well. I promise you, we're committed to this issue. It's complex. Nevertheless, we want to ensure that it is right and proper when we go back to a different model than the one introduced in 2007.
i-53799cdb94780c05-267	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Mr Isak From, for the debate. Anyone who has listened will notice that there is not much polemics in this debate. We are relatively agreed on what we want to achieve in this. I just want to stress the situation with Norway once again. I think that we in Sweden should act more forcefully against Norway. In Norway, Swedish hunters are not allowed in the same way as in Sweden let in Norwegian hunters, and it is possible to have a tougher attitude towards Norway in the EEA agreement that is the basis. I think that would be reasonable. If it is in this way that the government is hesitant about setting reasonable skills and language requirements relating to safety and respect for animals and nature, then I would ask that other options be considered in order to move forward and achieve exactly the same thing. Mrs. Old President! I have sent the Minister several suggestions as to how I think we can move forward on this issue. I hope that the Government will present a legislative proposal to the Riksdag as soon as possible that meets what the Riksdag has sent in its announcements, which are basically good.
i-53799cdb94780c05-271	Mrs. Old President! I would just like to make a contribution to the public and to the audience: never compare game management with free movement of goods and services! It will not be possible to do so in any other case. In fact, we have 28 000 foreign hunters who contribute to the tourism industry by choosing to come here and solve hunting cards. Many of them come to the mountains, and many of them do well. They will continue to do so, but we need regulations in the mountains, just as there are regulations for private landowners, forest companies and hunting rights holders who provide hunting rights for moose hunting, wild boar hunting and forest bird hunting in other parts of the country. Many of those who come here come to hunt for elk, boar, deer and deer. They contribute to the tourism industry, but we should not confuse game management with the free movement of goods and services.
i-53799cdb94780c05-274	Mrs. Old President! I am very pleased that we still have a consensus on this issue. After all, I hear from everyone who participates in the debate that we understand the problems that exist and also appreciate the value of this hunt, not least for the people who live in these areas with the tradition that exists there. It's a unique environment and a unique fauna, and it's unique nature experiences you get through this hunt. I hope that we can resolve this very quickly, Edward Riedl, because we do not need to change legislation. A change of regulation is enough, and we have the ambition to do so as soon as possible.
i-53799cdb94780c05-276	Mrs. Old President! Sten Bergheden has asked me how I think the consequences will be for Swedish agriculture if the hunting regulation is amended. Sten Bergheden also wants to know if I intend to change the rules for general hunting times so that all hunting can be appealed to the court. It is the Government's ambition to bring order to Swedish game management. Wild game management should be sustainable and effective. In order to achieve this, it is necessary for Swedish legislation and its application to harmonise with the EU Nature Conservation Directive, i.e. the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. It is essential that the laws and rules governing hunting and game conservation are based on a uniform system of good practice. This is necessary in order to achieve long-term stability in Swedish game management. I would like to make it clear that the amendment to the hunting regulation that came into force on 1 April of this year concerns the possibility of appeal against decisions on hunting for bears, wolves, wolverines, loans and royal eagles to the General Administrative Court. The amendment follows the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of December 2015. Decisions to hunt for wild birds, in addition to royal eagle, may currently be appealed to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. In a recent consultation memo from the Ministry of Industry, it is proposed, among other things, that these hunting decisions may also be appealed to the General Administrative Court. The proposal is based on the statements made by the HFD in December 2015 regarding the possibility of appeal against hunting decisions concerning protected species. A majority of the consultation bodies consider that the proposal is a necessary consequence of the Court's decision. The question is now being prepared within the Government Office. In order to be able to operate properly, it is necessary to be able to protect both crops and domestic animals. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 35000. In order to prevent damage to crops caused by certain bird species, it is also possible under the Hunting Regulation to conduct protective hunting without official decision, i.e. on an individual initiative. No amendments have been proposed in this regard. The proposal submitted aims only at the possibility of appeal against an authority's decision on hunting to a court. It should be noted that the appeal against decisions on bird protection is an unusual one. General hunting times are regulated in the Hunting Regulation. During general hunting, species subject to general hunting rules may be hunted without special authorisation. The government has not proposed any changes to this regime.
i-53799cdb94780c05-281	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer and clarifications. I think it is important that we just get out that this is not about the general hunting period and the general hunting, but above all about the protection hunt. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions about being able to protect their property against animals on certain occasions when they can cause great damage to our crops. It is for this reason that this interpellation is being made. We know the government closed the Hunting Act investigation. My first question is whether it would not have been better to work on these issues in the Hunting Act investigation and look further at them there instead of, as now, being hit by emergency calls to correct things to make the hunt work. Couldn't it be good to resume the Hunting Act investigation and look further at what needs to be done when it comes to adjusting the hunting team? That's my first question. I would also like to ask whether the Minister is prepared, at this point, to perhaps even extend or strengthen the right of the individual's initiative to protect his property and crops. I am thinking of the times when such hunting is needed in order to protect crops and perhaps in that situation must apply for authorisation. It is often an emergency situation, and if it is to be dealt with through authorities and courts, we know that there is a great risk that it will take time. The birds that may be affected by this are common birds in Sweden, such as pigeon, grey goose and even crow, and therefore perhaps we should extend the individual's right of initiative. Is that something the minister looks at further?
i-53799cdb94780c05-285	Mrs. Old President! The background to our work on this proposal is that the previous government changed this system in a way that was not compatible with EU law. This government appointed, among other things, the Riberdahlska investigation, which concluded that we have a regulation that is not compatible with EU law. As a result, the Supreme Administrative Court also reached that conclusion. It is a matter of course for this government to follow what the highest legal expertise in this country has come up with. We're not going to give in to that. With regard to the possibility of a protection hunt, the hunting regulation provides for the possibility for a child to hunt for protection without a decision by the authorities. There are quite a lot of opportunities for that. It is not in this job that we are currently doing with the change of regulation. Then there is the general hunting time when hunting can be carried out on a large scale. That's where I think it's safe. But it's about getting this in place. Perhaps a special court could be set up to deal with this, so that we get the same assessments everywhere and also have an urgent handling of the cases. It may also need to be regulated that these decisions, such as those relating to the hunting of wolves, must be taken much earlier so that legal proceedings can be brought to enable hunting to be carried out.
i-53799cdb94780c05-289	Mrs. Old President! I think this ambition is a good thing. I think we have about the same opinion in this part. I guess I still think that in the situations we've ended up in, we can actively work to make things easier. It is, of course, a question of trying to keep the number of cases and the means of redress that exist, because they both burden the courts and restrict the possibility of the hunt that we all agree on is necessary in certain situations. Although this is not part of the minister's work at the moment, I think that the ambition may be that we try to work out simplifications around this part so that we can actively and smoothly pursue the protection hunt that is necessary. I also think it is a good thing that the Minister can reassure farmers and others who, on certain occasions, may be attacked by pests, such as birds that eat the crop or the seed. It is quite important that we can get a clear answer from the Minister that this will not mean any restrictions but that they will continue to be able to protect their crops. I think it is good to make this clear, as I have received questions from many who have heard from them and wondered what is going on. It is good if we can take this opportunity to clarify that part and reassure those who may have been concerned about this. Then I have a pure question of knowledge. Has the Minister examined whether there is the same regulatory procedure in all EU countries regarding the possibility of review of the protection of these animals? Or has Sweden interpreted this harder than the EU?
i-53799cdb94780c05-293	Mrs. Old President! With regard to the last question, about what it looks like in other EU countries, I do not have knowledge of what it looks like, but I assume that we will also have to comply with EU law as we do. After all, we are 28 countries that have to comply with the same EU law. Nothing should be different in that context. Then I do not think that we should exaggerate the problem of bird protection and make it appear that farmers cannot protect their crops from birds, as Mrs Bergheden here points out. There is therefore an opportunity to pursue protective hunting on an individual basis, and there is also general hunting time. What we are now working on is not something we are doing urgently, but we want to work through this properly. We work long-term and methodical. We want to put order in this, because it hasn't been, not least if we look back. When it comes to hunting wolves, it has not been a system that creates order. There have been different assessments and so on, and several years the hunt has been stopped completely.
i-53799cdb94780c05-296	Mrs. Old President! As has been said before, we agree on this issue. Nevertheless, I would like to say that it is perhaps a good thing that we should look further at what was achieved in the Hunting Act investigation and the proposals that came up at that time. We may also need to further develop this in the future. I would also like the Minister to take with him the message that we need to help each other in every way to facilitate this so that we do not get into a situation where ordinary protection hunts end up in court proceedings and expensive bureaucracy here in Sweden. We need to help each other here in Parliament so that we can get such a regulatory framework that we can continue with this activity without it being decided in court on too many occasions.
i-53799cdb94780c05-298	Mrs. Old President! I don't think you should exaggerate this, Sten Bergheden. In the case of official decisions on bird protection, there are no more than about ten of them per year. I think that Bergheden paints a picture that this is something very big because he does not want to see this government bring order to the big predators and sort out the disorder that the previous government created around, not least, the wolf hunt. So I do not share Mrs Bergheden's concern about bird protection. Now we are well on the way to bringing order to this hunting area as well.
i-53799cdb94780c05-301	Mrs. Old President! Magnus Oscarsson has asked me what measures I, as Minister, intend to take to increase Sweden's self-sufficiency in food. The background to the question is what opportunities we have to supply our population with food in the event that trade with the rest of the world is cut off. First of all, I would like to agree with Magnus Oscarsson that this is an important area. We have a changed security policy threat, and our dependency on livelihoods is becoming increasingly complex. However, the question is a little tricky. A complete blockade is assessed by defence experts and responsible authorities as unlikely, nor is it included in the risk and vulnerability analyses carried out annually by the security authorities. On the other hand, it is likely that parts of the country may have problems with the supply due to serious social disturbances, for example in the form of a natural accident or that targeted attacks prevent the supply of supplies. It also depends on what season it is and in which parts of the country the supply is hindered. With the end of the Cold War and Sweden's entry into the EU, it was estimated that food supply can be secured through free trade within the EU and with the rest of the world and through the responsibility of the large food chains. Therefore, regulations were removed which set out forms or structures for a food supply or emergency storage or under increased preparedness. Trust was also placed in the EU solidarity clause, which states that in the event of a disaster or terrorist attack, Member States will help others. That assessment is still valid. However, it is not relevant to consider food security merely as an isolated phenomenon. Effective food supply depends on inputs such as automotive fuel and fertilisers, and on the processing industry, storage, distribution routes, grocery trade, electricity and the possibility of buying goods with cash or cards. Therefore, food availability is not only important for food security. First of all, we need to look at crisis preparedness from a holistic perspective. The government announced work on a national food strategy in the 2015 budget bill. The starting point for the work on the food strategy is that there is great potential in Swedish food production and downstream. The aim of the work is to increase employment, production, exports, innovation and the profitability of food production while achieving the relevant national environmental objectives. Increased food production in Sweden leads to better conditions for a good national supply readiness. Sweden's own production of food is of course important for our ability to supply both in crisis and under increased preparedness. The Government intends to come back to the formulation of objectives within the framework of the Food Strategy when the bill is placed on the table of the Riksdag. The Finnish Food Authority has a national overall responsibility for coordinating crisis and contingency planning for food security in the post-primary production and drinking water supply. The Finnish Food Authority has organised a private-public consultation group for ongoing discussions with companies, drinking water producers, municipalities and other stakeholders on collaboration, safety, storage, distribution and more. Crisis preparedness must therefore be seen as a whole. The Government points this out, among other things, in the proposal Defence Policy Focus – Sweden's Defence 2016– 2020. What is stated in the bill is that analysis and planning of how security of supply and preparedness in food supply can be improved in the face of increased preparedness, for example. Assignments have been given to the relevant authorities and will be reported in June this year. The government then intends to return to the matter. With regard to the Government's ambition for Swedish security of supply in the event of a situation where imports of food and supplies are at risk of being restricted, the goal is to continue work to ensure the essential functions of society and protect the civilian population.
i-53799cdb94780c05-310	Mrs. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Affairs for his answer. It is gratifying that the Minister is also concerned about the situation in the country. We have a self-sufficiency rate below 50%. More than every other bite we eat comes not from Sweden but from abroad. I'm worried that the curve is pointing in the wrong direction. Self-sufficiency decreases instead of increasing, as we wish. It's alarming. What happens if something happens in the world around us that means that we cannot import the food we expect? There are studies showing that the shelves in Stockholm City, where we are right now, will be empty after two days. In other major cities it may take up to a week. This information can frighten us, or we can shrug our shoulders and say: It will never happen. I am of the opinion that it would be devastating not to be prepared for this. Let us look at our surrounding world, such as our neighbour country to the east, Finland. There you are careful to have a self-sufficiency of at least 80%. There, even at the highest political level, there is concern about the conditions of agriculture and food security. In Sweden we do not have the same feeling for our food producers. It may be related to Sweden's having lived in peace – thankfully – for over 200 years. But in Finland the horrors of war have been experienced much closer in time, and survivors there can still tell about it. Could that be an explanation for the fact that we are partly living in different realities? Does Sweden automatically have a more peaceful future just because we have a more peaceful history? In a few weeks' time, the Minister for Rural Development will present the food strategy. Will Sweden's self-sufficiency be an important point in it? If it's there, how does the minister think it'll make a difference? If the Minister for Rural Development and I are to be seen in this Chamber in five years' time, what degree of self-sufficiency will Sweden have if the Minister himself decides?
i-53799cdb94780c05-317	Mrs. Old President! Mr. Minister for Rural Affairs. It's an important interpellation. The situation is dramatically serious for parts of Swedish food production. I can pick up where Magnus Oscarsson left off. Sweden's self-sufficiency rate was 100 per cent during the Second World War, was 80 per cent in the 1980s, is 45 per cent now and is heading towards 40 per cent. It is also the worst self-sufficiency rate in Europe. Furthermore, as the Minister said, we are dependent on imported mineral fertilisers, diesel and so on. So the situation is like a balance line on a slender line. I fully agree with what the Minister says about the ambition to increase Swedish food production and strengthen competitiveness. But radical action is needed. There's a lot of cows on the ice. The degree of self-sufficiency is a consequence of how Sweden exploits its rich production opportunities, through fields and pastures and a good climate. How do we make use of those agricultural resources for food production today, the world's best agri-environmental and animal-friendly food production? We're using them in a worse and worse way. Animal production in Sweden has decreased by 25 per cent over the last two decades. And it's a catastrophic situation for the dairy farmers now. Milk prices suck. Farms go bankrupt and are closed down. On the crop side, the cultivation of spring oil plants has decreased by 90 percent, Mr. Minister for Rural Affairs – 90 percent! – due to the actions of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. The cultivation of onions is facing the threat of cessation, again because of the actions of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. It prohibits the herbicide that is necessary for rational and effective onion cultivation. The means are allowed in all other countries of the EU. But in one country, a single authority has said it knows best and banned it. Because it is only in Sweden that the product is banned, good onion cultivation in Kalmar district and Öland is forced to disappear. Instead, we import the same onions from other countries that use much more of the preparations. In what way will it be better for the environment or for Swedish agriculture? It won't be. When the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate is asked why you do not make your decisions from a helicopter perspective and why you do not weigh in what is happening in the world around us, you answer that you have not investigated how other countries do and cannot take responsibility for them. The Chemicals Inspectorate just says this is how it's going to be. What kind of authority is that? What government allows such an authority to act? I have a specific question for the Minister for Rural Development based on this tough situation for Swedish food production. A series of measures are needed to reverse developments, which I discussed with the Minister for Rural Development about a month ago. The authorities – the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and others – should in their instructions be required to make their decisions from a helicopter perspective – from a European perspective – which goes beyond the Swedish borders. Then you would not make such decisions. Is the Minister prepared to act in order for a helicopter perspective to be included in the instructions of the authorities?
i-53799cdb94780c05-325	Mrs. Old President! Yesterday, there were 240,000 more of us on Earth. Today there are about as many more of us. It is not far until the population in Sweden breaks the 10-millionth limit and the 11-millionth limit. And we all need food. Food is not something you can opt out of. We need food in peacetime and also in rest periods. That was one of the reasons why this government took the initiative to work on the national food strategy. In his first declaration of government, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven wrote in, for the first time in a government declaration in Sweden's history, that we need a national food strategy. It is about increasing our food production. We have all the conditions in this country to increase it. We have 600 000 hectares of arable land that are not under plough. We have knowledge, we have a climate and an environment that allows us to increase production. We do not lack water, which many other countries have huge problems with. Here, if anywhere, there are possibilities. Even if the self-sufficiency rate is 100 per cent, it is about what season a crisis occurs and where in the country a possible cancellation would take place. In a crisis, it is about transport, fuel supply, electrical data systems, processing, inputs, personnel, distribution, storage and more. It's about a lot of questions. It is not just a question of increasing the production of food in order to resolve a crisis. This is a very complex issue. Part of this, of course, is that we have started work on a national food strategy. It's extremely important. Unfortunately, that work was blocked for several years by the previous government when, as was then in opposition, we put forward motions on this. They were then voted down and nothing was done about it. Then I become very thoughtful when for two weeks I have received two interpellations from the bourgeois on this issue. Why didn't you do anything in the eight years you were in power?
i-53799cdb94780c05-331	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer! It is absolutely right that we had government power for eight years. Some things were good while other things were of course less good. That's it. But here we are talking about the present, Minister. Actually, you're the minister right now in this government. The tendency for self-sufficiency, as I said, is bleak, and I am thinking not least of our dairy farmers. A few weeks ago it came as a shock that Arla lowered the price of milk from May 1st to SEK 2.44 per kilogram. Here comes the next cold shower. The price of the milk is further reduced to the bottom level of SEK 2.32. This means that a dairy farmer goes with at least SEK 1.30 per litre of milk delivered in loss. How long will the dairy farmers be able to continue to deliver at the low price? We have been talking for quite a long time about five dairy farmers ending every week. Unfortunately, we may need to double that figure in the autumn and winter of this year. The competition investigation concluded that Swedish farmers competing on the European market have a heavier backpack from the beginning with higher diesel taxes, with laws and regulations that only exist in Sweden and with a bureaucracy that is terribly costly. I know, Minister, that there are no easy answers, no quick fix, to change the bottom levels of the milk price. But the Minister for Rural Affairs quite often talks about a bridge over contaminated water. Can't the minister start building the bridge over this famous water now? We had Milk Day 2015. Then we demanded a Milk Crisis Commission. I was then pleased that the Minister for Rural Development took the initiative for a high-level meeting. Now the situation is worse than ever. How low can the price of milk be? Is it time again, the Minister for Rural Affairs, to call an emergency meeting? I think it is high time for a milk-crisk remission or a high-level meeting 2.0– if the Minister wants to call it that. The important thing is that the Minister does something. My question is: Will the Minister for Rural Development call for such a meeting with dairy farmers, dairies, the food industry, banks, politicians, you name it, to bring about a change so that we can continue to deliver Swedish milk to our Swedish consumers?
i-53799cdb94780c05-339	Mrs. Old President! The Minister for Rural Affairs! I repeat my question, which I hope the Minister can comment on. Our authorities – the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and others – are supposed to protect Sweden's environment, and they set tough demands, I agree. But decisions cannot be made in isolation as if Sweden were the only country in the world. If the decisions make Swedish spring oil growing and Swedish onion growing disappear and we are forced to import from countries that use much more of the preparations that are banned in Sweden, then only the environment has lost on it and Swedish agriculture has moved out of this country. So my question is: shouldn't the authorities in their instruction have a helicopter clause that means that when you make decisions you have to raise your eyes above Sweden's national borders – or at least look in a European perspective – and don't act in such a way that Sweden stands out as extreme? Other countries allow what enables profitable production, Sweden does not. I would be much more confident if Sweden used its production resources for food production to 100 % than 45 %, Minister, if there were times of disaster. It is quite clear that we have more food in the country in the first case. The Alliance did a lot during its eight years. We reduced taxes, removed the manure tax and removed heavy inspection fees to county administrative boards and so on. We rowed home EU payments. You want to increase taxes, but I agree that more is needed. I can also agree that during our eight years we did not draw up a helicopter clause in government instructions. I'm sorry about that. I hope it will happen now and that I can get a positive answer.
i-53799cdb94780c05-344	Mrs. Old President! As Magnus Oscarsson describes, Sweden has a low degree of self-sufficiency, or security of supply, as I would rather call it. Because it's about how we're going to manage our food supply on the day we can't get food from the world around us. In some areas we already have more than 100% self-sufficiency, including cereals. In other areas it is smaller. The major reduction described by Magnus Oscarsson began in principle at our EU entry, and it has been discussed for a number of years. MSB produced a report in 2007 describing the challenges we face with reduced food production. Magnus Oscarsson says he doesn't believe in government politics, but I do. Unlike during the eight years of the Alliance in power, things are now happening. The government has taken important steps. First came the export strategy and procurement strategy for public activities, and soon the food strategy will come. The aim of the food strategy is to increase production and exports and create jobs while maintaining sustainable production. We are well placed to increase our food production. As the Minister for Rural Affairs said, we have good access to water. We have 600 000 hectares of arable land that are not in use. We have knowledge of how production should be run in the best sustainable way for humans, animals and nature. We are the best in the world on animal health, and we use the least antibiotics in the EU. We also have untapped potential for aquaculture and fisheries. This, together with our other added value, can be used in marketing, where Sweden can become the sustainable food country. Mrs. Old President! The fact that Swedish food products are now marked with the voluntary label Even by discussing the differences between how the countries produce their food, interest in Swedish food increases both here at home and abroad. If Swedish food production is allowed to account for a larger proportion of domestic and foreign consumption, it is good for the environment. Increased production also increases our security of supply. Magnus Oscarsson asked a question: How low can the milk price be now that Arla lowers the price? What I wonder is what responsibility Magnus Oscarsson thinks Arla has for this.
i-53799cdb94780c05-350	Mrs. Old President! Self-sufficiency is a measure of the proportion of domestic consumption derived from domestic production. It looks very different. As far as certain goods are concerned, we have self-sufficiency or even greater production than consumption. This applies not least to cereals, but also to eggs and poultry meat. In the event of a crisis or a lockdown, the focus on food will not be on animal products. As in other countries, in such situations there will probably be more focus on cereals, where we are self-sufficient. The national food strategy is about increasing our food production. It is also about providing the conditions for our companies to be competitive. I would like to say to Oscarsson that we are not saving dairy farmers with any emergency stocks. It is not about that; what you have to do is what the government has actually done now that it has been difficult. You could call it a bridge over the troubled water. We have restored the diesel tax reduction and provide full compensation for the tax increase that took place plus a total of another 300 million annually over three years. It is precisely the reverse of what was done by the former bourgeois government, which twice increased the diesel tax and deteriorated the diesel tax reduction four times. With regard to the money that came from the European Union, we are giving 100% national co-financing, which means 152 million. Not all countries have gone in with that money. We doubled the methane reduction from 20 cents to 40 cents. This goes directly to the dairy farmers. Since the 1990s we have not had full Norrland support, but we have now increased it. We have a cow premium of SEK 800 per cow. We went in with 150 million for extra animal welfare. We invested in exports and gave 10 million to the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency for work on export approvals. We have received several export authorisations – to Hong Kong, to China, to Japan. In this way, we can get dairy products, not least, to other and new markets. These are concrete measures that we have taken to help. Then I know that the situation is very difficult and difficult and that it may need more. But we've really acted. We have not deteriorated for the peasants, as they did for eight years, but made the reverse. During the alliance government, diesel in Sweden became the most expensive in Europe, which hit our farmers. Danielsson! We're going to have plant protection products. They're needed. However, as Staffan Danielsson knows, I cannot evaluate an authority decision in an individual case.
i-53799cdb94780c05-355	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. Last Friday I was in Boxholm and met a dairy company. Yesterday I was in Valdemarsvik and met two dairy companies. They all say the same thing: it is a question of reducing costs – costs that have been decided in this House. It is about extra costs that we Swedish politicians have put in their backpacks. Is there anything that the Minister for Rural Development would like to remove from his backpack? Is there anything you want to say that can give hope and a glimmer of light in the dark and tough situation that many now find themselves in? We in Sweden have a terribly costly and difficult bureaucracy. Every morning when I wake up I wonder what rule I will break today, said a dairy farmer from Sandsjö in Nässjö municipality to me. We can't have that. The state will work with and for our peasants, not against them. I asked earlier a question about the government's future food strategy, but did not think I got an answer. Will Sweden's self-sufficiency be an important point in the strategy presented in a few weeks' time, the Minister for Rural Development?
i-53799cdb94780c05-359	Mrs. Old President! I think it is a good thing that the issue of our food supply is now being given a great deal of attention by all parties. It is important that we have domestic food production. Food is not something we can opt out of. We have high-quality food production that we can be proud of. Now we all agree that we should increase it, and we have great opportunities to do so. Within the framework of the export strategy, the government will work with certain sectors where there is deemed to be untapped potential for increased exports and internationalisation. The government develops specific national strategies and measures for the food sector, for example. We also have new rules that make it easier to procure Swedish. The public meal is a tool for influencing the demand for high quality food. This, together with increased domestic demand and increased exports, allows our production to increase. If we increase our production, we have also increased our security of supply. Then there are other pieces in this. It is also about being able to change quickly. Then there must be land that can be used for, among other things, increased cultivation and production of energy and other things that we may need to manage food production.
i-53799cdb94780c05-363	Mrs. Old President! I have to repeat myself. I am a little perplexed by the sudden interest in Swedish food production and food supply. Imagine getting the exact same interpellation in two weeks from the alliance parties... amazing! And they haven't done anything themselves for eight years. I say welcome! I am pleased that you are beginning to take an interest in this important issue. This is positive, because this is something we have to work on. It is important that we increase food production, not least for Swedish rural areas. No matter where food is produced in the world, it is produced in a rural area. I want food to be produced in the Swedish countryside. The degree of self-sufficiency in peacetime is also important for our livelihoods in times of unrest. But it is a complex issue that is not just about how much food we can produce ourselves, but about many other things, such as stable infrastructure and so on, which we have listed here. Nor should we forget that cross-border cooperation is important. Sweden's security is built much with solidarity together with other countries. The Swedish government – our government – will continue to work to ensure socially important functions and protect the civilian population.
i-53799cdb94780c05-367	Mrs. Old President! Anders Forsberg has asked me about the species protection regulation and its current application rhymes with the vision of the Government's forest programme, which is: Forsberg asks this question in the light of the fact that a planned logging in an area of approximately 1.5 hectares in Ölme, Värmland, was stopped last year when the County Administrative Board and subsequently also the Land and Environmental Court denied the landowner an exemption from the conservation provisions of the Species Protection Regulation. The area contained the sponge bomb wall, which is protected throughout Sweden. I would like to begin by saying that for the government it is of great importance that forestry is conducted in a sustainable way that includes good production while preserving the species of the forest landscape in viable stocks within their natural distribution areas. The Government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested and that environmental considerations in forestry should increase. As regards the case of Bomb Walls in Värmland, it is an ongoing case that has been granted leave of appeal in the Land and Environment Court of Appeal. The outcome of this judgment may be a guide to the continued application of the Species Protection Regulation. I am prevented from commenting on the application of the Species Protection Regulation in this particular case. In the Bill A Swedish strategy for biodiversity and ecosystem services, the Government announced that a special investigator should be tasked with reviewing species protection legislation. The question of the appointment of investigators is currently being prepared within the Government Office. There is ongoing cooperation within the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency with the aim to clear out the boundaries of responsibilities between the county boards and the Swedish Forest Agency regarding the handling of species protection matters. The Government's forestry policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental objective and the production target. There is a need to develop both of these elements. As well as increasing protection and environmental protection, increased production of forest raw materials is important in the transition to a bio-based society and in phasing out fossil energy. I hope that the ongoing work to develop a national forest programme through dialogue between the various stakeholders in the forest will lead to a positive development of the equal goals. The national forest programme is built up by a dialogue that covers ecological, social and economic values and contributes to the development of a sustainable society.
i-53799cdb94780c05-374	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister for Rural Affairs. As I mentioned in the interpellation, the following events have taken place. A planned felling in Ölme, Värmland, was stopped last year when the County Administrative Board said no, considering that the red-listed sponge bomb-murk is in the area. The owner of the forest, who believes that the decision would have major economic consequences, appealed against the decision, but it was a no even to the Land and Environment Court. According to the Species Protection Regulation, derogations may only be granted if no other appropriate solution exists. As has already been said, the case is now pending before the Land and Environment Court of Appeal. It may be one thing in itself, but what is most remarkable in this – I call it a soup, because it is actually – is that the County Administrative Board Värmland writes in its opinion in the current case: It should possibly be required that the landowner details why he wants to harvest the forest and what he should do with the funds flowing in from the felling. The question also arises as to how excruciating this economic need is and whether he can cover the need in any other appropriate way. Can he harvest forests in some other area? Can he sell part of his property? Does he have other assets he can sell to cover his needs? Is it possible for him to take out a loan to harvest the forest? It can be said that this is a real soup. At the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, they are perhaps a little more sober in their opinion. They note that the species protection rules weigh most and that the current felling involves a risk of impact on the bomb wall's conservation status. The measures therefore do not comply with the Preservation Regulation. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency does not decide whether the landowner is entitled to compensation because the forest cannot be harvested. When you listen to the rural minister's answer, you can ask yourself whether the government believes that the species protection regulation and its application can really rhyme with the vision of the government's forest programme, which is precisely a forest – the green golden – a vision that will contribute to jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country as well as to the development of a growing bioeconomy. How can this vision even be possible in view of the marked shift in position we are now seeing in the authorities' view of and management of forestry? Mrs. Old President! I am concerned, the rural population is concerned, the forest owners are concerned and the forest industry is concerned. Is the Government concerned?
i-53799cdb94780c05-382	Mrs. Old President! Let me say that the species protection regulation and its current application is a complex issue that the government is following with great interest. However, there are more things than the case of the bomb-wall clan, which the interpeller raises, which affect the application of the protection regulation. It has also been noted by the authorities that there are shortcomings in the procedures and procedures that can influence the way in which the processing is carried out and whether there is a legally secure application. Against this background, the Swedish Forest Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have jointly initiated a project to develop common guidelines to be used in the day-to-day management of logging notifications. Before the authorities make their decisions and before the Environmental Court of Appeal has examined this case, I will not comment and have no opportunity to comment on how the Species Protection Regulation is in line with the forestry programme's vision. With regard to site protection, there are currently opportunities to receive compensation as a result of restrictions on advice within nature reserves and biotop protection areas, water protection areas. This is not the case, however, in the case of restrictions on consultation under the Species Protection Regulation. Today there is a difference. In the report Compensation in case of restrictions of consultation, SOU 2013:59, an in-depth analysis was made of when and in which cases compensation in case of restrictions of consultation should be provided. In this context, the investigator points out that restrictions of advice under the Species Protection Regulation were an area that was particularly in need of revision. It is against the background of what the government is preparing the question of appointing an investigator to review these elements.
i-53799cdb94780c05-386	Mrs. Old President! It's quite interesting when you write interpellations. I had to put myself in a little bit around the bomb wall. It can be said that the bomb wall is indeed an overprotected species. It is one of the five mushrooms that are nationally protected in Sweden according to the Species Protection Regulation. This means that it is forbidden to pick, dig up or otherwise remove or damage specimens of the fungus. Bombmurklan belongs in relatively dry areas of spruce forest land with moss cover where they are nourished by breaking down spruce needles. It is precisely in Ölme, the area that is at issue in the interpellation, that the presence is not clear, because it varies greatly from year to year. The status of the bomb wall clan is a vulnerable one within the framework of the art data bank. It's called threatened, but of the lowest class. Now that it is caught in the eye, you can consider whether it is used as a tool to stop the effects. Yeah, you can almost think about it. Does it really die out after a felling? There is much evidence that this is not the case. It can be discussed whether it might be better to look for methods of creating environments rather than banning forestry. It is also worth noting that this fungus in Finland is considered to be disadvantaged, i.e. not red-listed, whereas Sweden has chosen to classify it as a vulnerable one, i.e. on the red list, despite the fact that we have good occurrences and have already taken great steps to keep it in the country. It can also be noted that the reduction in plant sites and fragmentation has ceased and that the fungus has spread to nearby forest stocks. It may well be that the bomb-murk is the least threatened so-called endangered species in Sweden. Mrs. Old President! With EU entry in 1995, we received a directive on species and habitats and the Birds Directive. When the directive was adopted, we were not members, but we were kindly allowed to accept the content. When the Environmental Protection Agency's handbook on the directive was presented in 2009, it took off. The directive lists more than 1 000 species, including about 150 named species that exist in Sweden, such as bear, bold and lo, some rare insect species, mussels, all bat species, most fungi and more. In addition, the Directive includes all wild birds in Sweden. The Species Protection Regulation means that in practice forestry would be prohibited if it were strictly complied with. It contains a ban on disturbing birds or harming their breeding grounds wherever they are. The implementation of the directive in Swedish legislation mainly through the Species Protection Regulation goes – especially with regard to birds – far beyond what the directive says. Then you can ask how a species and habitat directive has been implemented in Sweden. We have integrated around 90% of the directives in Sweden, while other countries, with considerably longer membership, may have reached 30-40%. The Minister for Rural Development mentions that this is a complex issue. I understand that. There are many parameters that need to be taken into account. However, he also mentions in his reply that he intends to instruct a special investigator to review species protection legislation. That is, of course, pleasing. But what is the plan for the work, Minister, and when is the government expected to come up with a proposal on the revision of the Species Protection Regulation?
i-53799cdb94780c05-394	Mrs. Old President! I am not prepared to leave a timetable today, but this is an important piece of work that needs to be started. As I said in my previous speech, authorities have problems with enforcement. Swedish forestry is extremely important, that we can have a forestry. Our net export revenue is SEK 120 billion. Swedish forestry directly employs 60 000 people and 200 000 in ancillary services. The forest has for a long time been an important welfare builder in Sweden. We have managed our forests very well for a long time. It has been freedom under responsibility. Growth in Swedish forests is greater than what we take out of them. If we fell a tree, we plant at least two new ones. It is an expression of the fact that it is sustainable forestry, which I say we have. At the same time, we have the equal objectives of production and the environment, which we must take into account and balance. It is a responsibility that I think we have taken well and should continue to take in our country. The national forestry programme, which the government has initiated, has to do with the very potential that exists in Swedish forests, which we have not made full use of. Almost 70 per cent of Sweden's land area is covered with forest. There are many new products that we can use from the forest, and at the same time is a forest that is good for the climate, because a managed forest takes up carbon dioxide. There are many different parts to this. I do not wish to comment on the working groups working on the national forestry programme. There are four working groups with expertise from the industry, stakeholder organisations, academia and authorities working on this. We have a program council group of 20 people who test the quality of these jobs. They will present a final report on the vision of green gold. I cannot comment on that until it is presented. It is important that in this debate we do not put a good protection of species against economic interests or recreational values against environmental values, but instead try to find a good dialogue in order to take into account all the values that forests reproduce.
i-53799cdb94780c05-401	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. We note that Sweden has a relatively well-functioning system, where large areas are set aside by the forest owners themselves. It is a system that we in the Swedish Democrats continue to want to protect and develop in harmony with the interests of forest owners. The starting point should always be to take advantage of the value of the forest. As the Minister mentions, this is not only about forests as a raw material base, but also as a biological resource. There may therefore be some reasons to protect certain areas from felling and balance environmental objectives with production targets. This approach is important not least for rural areas, but also in general for both tourism and the forestry industry, particularly in terms of jobs. The forest also provides the opportunity for active leisure time for the rural population. We want to make use of this part of Sweden's democrats. We can be concerned about issues such as the species protection regulation and the interpretation that I mention the interpellation, when we feel that the balance is tipping over from production to the environment and when there is a greater emphasis on the environmental issue. Are the production issues connected? It is good that the Minister still mentions these parts. For us to contribute to the green bioeconomy, we must have a productive forest. I believe that in this case we must work on a forestry policy that is actually based more on voluntary and information than on detailed laws and regulations. I hope that the government intends to follow this line and continue with the Swedish forestry model. I would therefore like to thank you for the debate.
i-53799cdb94780c05-407	Mrs. Old President! The Swedish forest was important yesterday, it is important today and it will be very important in the future. The Swedish forest affects us all in one way or another. We can stay in it for recreation, for berry picking, for hunting and for fishing. We can also use it and get our income from it because we work with the forest, perhaps in an industry. The forest is a green gold and an important part of Sweden's future and Swedish prosperity building. It has been historic and will be if we handle it properly. When I travel from Karungi far north to Kallax airport in Luleå, I see the timber cars that keep going back and forth. Then I usually think that through the Swedish forest are produced lots of welfare services, such as health care, childcare and elderly care. We'll take care of this. At the same time, however, we must also take into account the environmental objectives in order for this to be sustainable in the long term. Sweden was once a bio-based economy. Then Sweden became an oil-based economy. Now we're going into a new and modern bio-based economy. If we are to succeed in that, the forest is crucial. If we do the right thing, with the forest we have in Sweden, we can be the first country in the world to phase out fossil fuel. Let me sum up: on the specific case, as Minister, I cannot speak, and I will not do so. As far as the working groups working on this vision are concerned, they come with a final report. I hope to present it to Parliament. Then we will appoint an investigator on the basis of the directives. Thank you for a good debate.
i-53799cdb94780c05-412	Mrs. Old President! Anders Åkesson has asked the Minister for Climate and the Environment if she intends to take any initiatives on the grounds that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has inhibited parts of a decision by the County Administrative Board of Kalmar County regarding hunting on cormorants. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The sharp increase in the breeding stock of cormorants in the country as a whole has slowed down and the stock has decreased slightly in recent years. I am aware that the amount of cormorants locally may be perceived as problematic. Fishing is adversely affected as cormorants can take caught fish and damage fishing gear. Cormorants can also have an impact on fish farms. There are also indications that cormorants locally may have a negative effect on fish stocks. Nature in connection with cormorants breeding sites is changing, which can be perceived negatively. I thank you for the question but would like to point out that as a minister I am prevented from having views on how an authority deals with individual cases.
i-53799cdb94780c05-415	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Government for its answer. The background to the interpellation that I made to Minister for the Environment Åsa Romson – who has been handed over to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht – was that the incidence and rate of increase of cormorants in southeastern Sweden is extremely extensive. This has a very negative impact on outdoor life, fishing and nature. The cormorants are thus extremely common. Against this background, over the years there has been a very trusting cooperation between county boards that have announced protection hunting for hunters in this part of the country. The aim has been to find a balance between several interests. The cormorants should be able to exist as one of many animal species, the fishing should be able to persist and the reproduction of fish should be maintained. It is a trusting cooperation that has taken the legal expression of allowing protection hunting of up to 3 000 individuals per year. The motives and driving forces have been common. As recently as February this year, an extended hunt for protection was announced again on the same premises. Therefore, the surprise was extraordinary in the area when, on 12 April this year, after an appeal, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency decided on the inhibition of a decision given by the County Administrative Board. Our country looks many different ways. Smålandskusten consists largely of a relatively shallow moraine archipelago with many and small tree-grown islands. Local fisheries are largely dependent on these areas and fish stocks. These shallow bays are very important reproductive areas, and there is extensive community work by municipalities, outdoor organisations and others to help with the reproduction of pike and perch in particular. But these shallow bays are also extremely simple hunting areas, or fishing areas, for cormorants. Hence the conflict of interest. For several years, a method and a common understanding of a legal approach has been developed between fishing organisations, fishermen, fishing companies, outdoor people, municipalities and county boards, that is, the state, in finding a balance between hunting and protection hunting, and the presence of fish and the reproduction of new fish. This reproduction work with a fishing ban during sensitive times of the year has been carried out with such success that they talk about pike factories along the Småland coast. Mrs. Old President! It will then be very difficult to understand the management of public authorities when it takes such forms. In view of this, and knowing that a minister must not have views on the exercise of the authority, I formulated the question: Is the minister going to take any initiatives in view of what has been said in the interpellation – investigation, talks, follow-up and even a visit? The initiative is the government's tool.
i-53799cdb94780c05-421	Mrs. Old President! How the cormorants are to be managed is of course an important issue, and it has many different parts. It is about fishing, aquaculture and how the cormorants affect the natural environment where they are located, and it is about biodiversity. I am fully aware that the cormorant may be perceived as a problem. Anders Åkesson also talks about what it has looked like historically, with a successful collaboration on how the issues have been handled. I'm sure it's been that way, and it may have been that way in the future, too. However, when Anders Åkesson takes up the individual case again, I must be very clear: as Minister, I am prevented from having views on how an authority deals with individual cases, and I cannot go into these matters today.
i-53799cdb94780c05-423	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Government for its intervention, but it is not the Government and the Government that is prevented from taking initiatives in connection with the development of society. What concerns me and many others with commitment to this issue is that a well-functioning system is being overtested. It is a system that is established in consultation between the state, representatives of the county administrative board of a county, associations and professionals – in this case we could talk about cultural carriers, Madam President of the Age, in the form of coastal fisheries – and where there is a management approach. Protection hunting, that is to say, respects the existence of cormorants but at the same time tries to exercise the nutrition that has been going on for generations. When all of this is reviewed in a decision, in this case by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, we know that a minister or government cannot go in. But should it be possible for the Government or the Government to take some form of initiative? Let us make the comparison that the corresponding situation had arisen in the question of the hunting of moose. There we also have a system of managing hunting and a licensing system with the allocation of possible individuals to pursue. It is order and order, and the game is protected during sensitive periods. Surely the government would feel motivated to take the initiative if it were seen that interests were out of balance? In the past, it was a debate about the forest – the green gold – and its enormous value for the prosperity of our country. The equivalent is not found in coastal fishing; it has a lower economic value. Nevertheless, it is, I believe, the Government's and my common ambition that respect for and confidence in legal systems and systems should never be discredited. Therefore, I would like to ask again what initiatives will be taken by the Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht in view of the fact that it is currently being experienced and expressed an extraordinary surprise along the shallow moraine coast – the Småland coast towards the Baltic Sea – over an inhibition of a system that has worked extremely well for a long time.
i-53799cdb94780c05-427	Mrs. Old President! Sofia Fölster has asked me if I will investigate the cost development in personal assistance and, if so, why the government anticipates the investigation. Mrs Fölster has also asked me what measures I intend to take to make it easier for small businesses who are providers of personal assistance, whether I am aware of the concerns of the user movement and of organisers as a result of the government's signal policy and what timetable I believe is possible for possible reforms in the field of personal assistance. The directives are reportedly not yet ready. I have taken the initiative to carry out a review of LSS operations and assistance payments. There is currently intensive preparation of directives for such an investigation within the Government Office. Once this work is completed, the investigation directives will be decided. As I said recently in a question answer to Sofia Fölster( 2015/ 16:1130), an important reason for the review is that there is a lack of legal certainty, equivalence and the quality of the efforts under the LSS. Over the last ten years, the cost of assistance compensation has also almost doubled, while the number of persons receiving assistance compensation has not increased at all to the same extent. It is necessary to gain a better understanding of this cost development and to create a long-term sustainable financial compensation system. Since the beginning of the reform, assistance payments and their cost development have been the subject of investigations and reviews without more robust solutions to the problems highlighted. This also applies during the time the Moderates were in government. I can therefore note that, despite numerous investigations, including a parliamentary one, assistance payments have not reached the objective of a long-term sustainable financial compensation system. Försäkringskassan has received a new goal for assistance compensation in the regulations for 2016. The aim is not to break the trend in costs but, if possible, to try to break the trend in the number of hours spent on assistance payments since the beginning of the reform. The number of hours has increased by an average of two to three hours a week each year and was in December 2015 up to 127 hours a week and per person. What is rarely mentioned when Försäkringskassan's objectives are discussed is that the goal is above all a goal to ensure good law enforcement and quality. The case states that a good application of the law is to be ensured and the handling, investigations and decisions are to be equivalent throughout the country and to be of high quality so that the right person receives the right compensation. The Social Insurance Agency shall also ensure good control to counter over-exploitation. ..................................................... In terms of company conditions, it is Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg who is responsible for industrial policy in Sweden. However, I can mention that there are about 1 000 companies of different sizes that have permission from the Inspection for Health and Care to conduct the business of personal assistance. I find it difficult to see that the current framework for assistance payments constitutes an obstacle to the establishment of small businesses. I am aware of the concerns of individual users, organisations and organisers when there are changes in assistance payments. However, the Government is responsible for ensuring both legal certainty and the quality of operations under LSS and sustainable cost development. Nor is it new that the assistance compensation is investigated or that there are other changes in the compensation that affect many parties. Only by way of example did the former government receive investigations on three occasions concerning assistance. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that it is important for me and for the government to safeguard this reform. The reform has significantly improved living conditions and enabled the self-determination of many girls, boys, women and men with extensive disabilities. It goes without saying to me that welfare costs. At the same time, everyone in our country should feel confident that the money in our tax-funded welfare is being spent properly.
i-53799cdb94780c05-436	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Government for its answer. Since shortly after the government took office a little more than a year and a half ago, we have been told that an investigation is being planned in the field of disability. In October, Magdalena Andersson made a noted statement in Ekot. In answer to the question of how to pay for the reception of refugees, she said that the assistance allowance is an area where the government wants to save. In April this year, the Government decided on a new regulation letter for Försäkringskassan. In previous years, the regulation letter has included wordings on better cost control and reduced over-use, and now it has as its first point that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will contribute to breaking the trend in the number of hours within the assistance reimbursement. What began as a signal policy has now become clear through directives in the regulatory letter and has, of course, had consequences. One of these is post-payment. From October onwards, the Social Insurance Agency will no longer pay the compensation in advance but in arrears. This means that the organiser must lay out, for example, salary costs. A survey by the employers' association KFO shows that 30 percent of the organisers will not be able to make the transition. And the ones that will be knocked out are the small companies. The government has also opened up for people with the greatest needs to report their hours monthly instead of half-yearly. In addition to the extra bureaucracy that this entails for people with the absolute greatest needs, it eliminates the possibility of balancing costs between months. It is obvious that if you have great needs and have many assistants you have higher costs, for example at Christmas and New Year for OB, when the assistant goes on course etcetera. If costs can no longer be balanced, they are directly affected by the greatest needs. Not only that, but the government has also doubled employers' contributions for young people, which is hitting the assistance industry hard where a large proportion of young people are working. The government chose to compensate municipalities and county councils for this but not the providers of assistance. Finally, we hear more and more stories that the tone and signals from the government lead to tougher assessments both at Försäkringskassan and in the municipalities. It's troubling. I think we can all agree that the evolution of costs is worrying, that we need to get to the bottom of the reasons for it and that the money should actually go to what it is intended for. That is why my party and I are very much in favour of the investigation and look forward to having the directives presented. What is worrying is that the government now precedes the investigation and in various ways below the surface tightens the assistance compensation. What we see is that this limits diversity, makes it more difficult for those who do the right thing and do things that affect the most vulnerable. I would therefore like an even clearer answer as to whether the development of costs will be a theme in the forthcoming investigation and why the government does not wait for the investigation to come forward with savings or measures that tighten up before you know what the reasons for the cost development actually are. I would also like an answer on the time perspective. When can we expect directions for the investigation?
i-5TYHbuYyrVZzNyDn4pW6z3	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Sofia Fölster, for your interest in this matter! The answer to when the directives come is: Very, very soon. When the Minister of Finance spoke about this issue last autumn, she referred to the fact that the cost of assistance increased from 1996 to 2006 to around 15 billion. 14 000 people were covered by the then new reform. From 2006 to last year, costs doubled and only over 2 000 additional people were covered by the reform. However, the number of hours increased, and we know very little about what is behind the hourly increase. I often meet representatives from the disability movement who feel that they do not receive assistance to the extent that they would like. Others feel that they would like to have other efforts within the framework of the LSS, to which they believe they do not come. They either feel that assistance takes too much space or that they do not get it to the extent that they think they should. On the one hand, we have very high costs without knowing why. On the other hand, those who consider themselves eligible for the assistance reform are not satisfied with how it works in reality. We risk losing legitimacy in both scales, and that is what the Finance Minister meant. On the one hand, Sofia Fölster criticises that it has taken time to set up the investigation. It is a very complicated issue, and many have investigated it in the past. You did nothing during your time to control the costs of the assistance reimbursement. On the other hand, Sofia Fölster criticises that we are doing things to get to the problem. I think that a government that is responsible for large taxes must take control of the situation, and that is what we are doing now in different ways.
i-53799cdb94780c05-453	Mrs. Old President! As I said earlier, I fully share the view that the evolution of costs is worrying and that it opens up many questions. At the same time, care should be taken to make a simplified description of the problems and to pre-empt an investigation that goes to the bottom of the problems. That is what I criticise. Even though the costs in kroner have doubled in the last ten years, a quick calculation, as the Government says, leads to different factors affecting costs. On the other hand, the number of hours has increased, there have been more people in the assistance and on the other hand the flat rate has also been indexed – perhaps other things. This leads to more questions than answers: Why do people get more hours a week now than before, the money goes to the right things, and what does the cheating look like? The cheating debate has come up a lot lately. Försäkringskassan has said that it is 2 billion based on a 2012 study based on assumptions. Another 2014 report from Försäkringskassan says that the cheating rate is 0.16% and not 10% as is now claimed. So it is very unclear what the reasons are. Another factor to take into account is the fact that disabled people today live longer, thanks to an amazing medical development. More children born prematurely are saved, but with disabilities. More people with disabilities choose to live on their own instead of living in a group home, and then with more assistance. Then why am I saying this? Because I maintain concerns about the evolution of costs. We need to look at what it depends on. I would argue that the reality is complex and that we have to get to the bottom of the causes before we go ahead with the investigation and do austerity. What we would have needed is an investigation that goes to the bottom of the cost development and the reasons for it before going ahead with, for example, monthly accounting instead of half-yearly accounting, which affects even those who do quite a lot, with post-payments, by increasing costs by imposing employers' contributions and by signalling in the regulatory letter that we should now tighten up. I think you should choose a track and either say that you do not know what the costs are and want to investigate this or that the costs are already too high and that you want to save. If you choose the latter, it will be a bit strange, I think, to set up an investigation that should look at the reasons for the cost development. There are many questions within assistance that need to be investigated and looked at. For example, the Government mentioned this with legal and fair assessments. It is also something that I often hear. The quality of assistance – what is quality? How can we ensure that all performers are serious and properly controlled? There are a lot of questions based on the daily life of the person entitled to assistance that the investigation should focus on, preferably also on the development of costs. What worries me, however, is when we are already tightening up, which leads to major consequences and enormous concerns, especially within the user movement and among those who have assistance, who feel that living with disability is becoming tougher because of this signal policy.
i-53799cdb94780c05-462	Mrs. Old President! This reform is very important. It has meant a great deal. It is an example of how a disability policy can work well, and many other countries want to look at it. It is a convention in this area which is very powerful and which is being discussed a great deal throughout the world. There is undoubtedly concern among the organisations. That's why I see them a lot. I have also had special meetings on this particular issue. Nevertheless, I believe that it is a responsibility for a government to control these kinds of reforms and where the funds go. What I want is for them to be used for the intentions of the reform. They should not go to rogue organizers of various kinds. I don't care if the possible rogues are companies or others. It should go to those who have the rights. We should know what the funds are used for, and we should know why the number of hours is so high, while others believe that they must not enter the reform. I strongly defend that we do things as fast as we can. It is important, and there is already a knowledge base, as you yourself pointed out, Sofia Fölster. As far as the directives are concerned, I think you will find them interesting. The investigation will look at how assistance relates to itself – in the light of what we have just talked about – and other actions and measures within the LSS. Of course, we have a gender perspective in the investigation. Men receive personal assistance to a greater extent than women. We are also asking the question of the role of family members. Today Kommunal presented a report with a lot of thoughts about the suitability of relatives as personal assistants and what it means for those who need the effort and possible dependency conditions. We also ask whether it is appropriate or not to double heads. I believe that it is necessary to modernise and have a assistance reform that is appropriate for our time and where we know that the funds go to that reform.
i-53799cdb94780c05-471	Mrs. Old President! Let me touch on this with the situation of entrepreneurs, which I also wrote about in the interpellation. The Government says in its reply that there are no obstacles and refers to the Minister for Economic Affairs. I would like to disagree with that, because the measures to be introduced – such as the post-payment, the increase in employers' contributions and the profit investigation, which have the task of precisely setting the hook for independent operators – cause both concern and put an end to small businesses. These austerity measures risk leading to an oligopolistic market in which only large companies survive austerity while small ones are knocked out. It affects freedom of choice. Over 60% of users have chosen an independent organiser. The Minister for Gender Equality should not be surprised that 55% of company leaders in the welfare sector are women, compared with about 30% in the rest of the business world. That's remarkable. The quality of assistance cannot be compared to anything in other welfare sectors. Quality is based on the individual and on self-determination. Being able to choose the person who will help you with the most intimate needs in your everyday life is the basis for self-determination and quality. It is therefore crucial that diversity is protected and not eliminated by the austerity that is taking place. I hope that this perspective will also be included in the study, that is, what diversity and choice exists for users and how it is linked to quality. I also hope, as I mentioned earlier and which was the reason I put the interpellation, that the signal policy ends before the investigation is completed.
i-53799cdb94780c05-478	Mrs. Old President! Signal policy usually refers to intimidation policy. Here, however, the criticism is that we are doing too much. In any case, we are happy to discuss again when the directives and the investigation are known. I just wonder: do you not think it is good that taxpayers' money is used for what it is supposed to be and that it is known that it is and above all that those who are in this situation and are entitled to this reform are the ones who actually receive these funds? At least that is my ambition with this investigation and with what we are doing.
i-53799cdb94780c05-482	Mrs. Old President! Isabella Hökmark has asked me what I intend to achieve with a law on quotas and what other measures I would like to take to increase female representation on both company boards and senior executive positions. A balanced distribution of power and influence between women and men is one of the four objectives of equality policy. The sub-goal focuses on both formal political rights, such as the possibility of participating in democratic processes such as voters and elected representatives, and the distribution of power in sectors outside what is usually included in democratic governance, such as business. This milestone has not been achieved. The leading Swedish companies' boards and management teams have historically had a very low proportion of women. The latest figures show that men make up 71% and women 29% of board members. As far as the chairmanships are concerned, it looks even worse. There, the proportion of men has been around 95% in recent years compared with modest 5% for women. Although it is gratifying that the proportion of women on the boards of stock exchange companies is increasing, the trend is far too slow. The Government intends to accelerate progress towards a more equal representation on the boards of stock exchange companies. The Government's objective is that the proportion of women on listed company boards should be at least 40 per cent by the end of 2016. Quotation is often contrasted with competence. In my opinion, it is the other way around – quotaing is a method that helps to secure competence on boards. As things stand today, women's skills are not being exploited in the way they should. Not taking advantage of the skills of the entire population is a waste of resources from the social economy. Both women's and men's skills contribute to our country's competitiveness. According to both the Delegation for Gender Equality in Business, the JA delegation, and the Gender Equality Report, there is a clear pattern in business: the higher the positions, the fewer women. A research report submitted by Professor Anna Wahl and others to the JA delegation shows that there has been some change in the view of gender imbalance among business leaders. According to the managers interviewed, a biased gender balance can damage their brand. There is also an interest in not appearing out of fashion. But the interview study also showed that younger men who are business leaders are no more gender conscious than older men. Arguments such as that things get better over time as society develops are thus less sustainable. With regard to other measures that could be taken to increase the representation of women in senior management posts, in my opinion, the public will lead the way. The state-owned companies already live up to the target of at least 40% of each gender. Today, 49.8% of the board members of wholly-owned state-owned companies are women. In addition, 46.3 per cent of the presidents of the state-owned companies are women. In the Government Office, too, the objective of gender balance between women and men in political positions and posts has been achieved. Through a conscious appointment and recruitment, there is a gender balance among ministers, secretaries and political experts. Similarly, the government is working on state nomination policy. The government's determined efforts have produced tangible results. As a minister of a feminist government, I am working extensively on gender equality policy. The Government's reform efforts to accelerate development in areas that are strategically important for gender equality policy continue. It is important to create a long-term perspective and to ensure the sustainability of the measures implemented.
i-53799cdb94780c05-492	Mrs. Old President! I thank the Government for its answer, although I have not been given an answer to the question of what this will do in the long run. Norway has had quotas for company boards since 2006. But quotaing has missed its target, and the legislation has not had the intended effect. Gender equality has remained in the boardrooms, and it has not had any positive effects in the management ranks or on the income gap between men and women. When the unilateral demand for quotas can replace other concrete reforms as the single most important reform to improve women's labour market opportunities, we do not see what really matters and what is already being done. The Government should look at the many good examples where managements work actively to recruit women and highlight women's skills. It will then be crucial for the competitiveness of businesses and have a great power behind them. If you look at the proportion of female CEOs in Sweden, we are behind the rest of Europe. Only that should give the government a thought about something that is flawed in Swedish politics. Sweden should learn from those countries where it is clearly easier for women to make a career rather than strangle the opportunities that today make it easier. I'm going back to Norway. Since 2006, the proportion of female managers has not increased at either the CEO level or the middle management level. It speaks for itself that a law in Norway has only changed the composition of boards but not changed gender equality and women's opportunities as individuals in business. Why does the government invest in board professionals instead of the large number of women in the labour market? What do you want to achieve in later stages?
i-53799cdb94780c05-499	Mrs. Old President! Who said this was the only important question? Who told you that? I would like to know for the sake of clarity. In Sweden there is no tradition of quota legislation. The fact that there is a relatively equal parliament is due to voluntary action by the parties, a pressure that the women's movement and some women within the parties mediated and in other ways. As a result, the parties voluntarily act that way. Although women's representation in Parliament has fallen during the last two elections – which I think is serious and shows that there must be constant pressure on this issue – there is no tradition of quota legislation in any case. It is not now an end in itself. On the other hand, I believe in politics. The history of gender equality development in Sweden shows that politics has played a role. When there is a political debate, when there are priorities and the allocation of resources, and when decisions are taken, gender equality takes important steps forward. I am thinking of the sectoral tax reform, abortion legislation, child and elderly care organised as paid work, social security schemes based on individuals and not on families, and so on. I would like to see the business community take care of this itself. I think it would be better. That is why this debate and this pressure should be seen as a chance. Among other things, women have significantly higher formal skills than men. It is a waste of resources not to take advantage of that competence. When it comes to the question of CEOs, I can rejoice Isabella Hökmark that the new anti-discrimination legislation requires employers to map also what positions look like and what leading positions look like when it comes to gender. It is a novelty along with the fact that salaries are to be mapped every year, not every three years, as you introduced. I think the question is important. Decisions are made on company boards that play a role for society as a whole. Women's skills must be taken into account. It is an important step in distributing power and influence evenly between women and men. It is an objective of equality policy, and it was also an objective that you maintained during the time you held the government. Things have to be done. You can't just look at it. There must be a debate and pressure. You can take decisions into your own hands.
i-53799cdb94780c05-505	Mrs. Old President! Why do I raise quotas on company boards as the most important issue for you? Because the Government itself has said that she is prepared to legislate on quotas in private companies. That is a far-reaching measure. I have heard nothing about other concrete reforms. Let us get back to the issue of women in management. There is only one area in Sweden where more women than men run businesses, namely in the welfare sector. Sixty-five percent of the owners and managers are women. The possibility of starting and running companies in healthcare and long-term care, for example, is very important in order to increase gender equality. If there were as many private companies in health care as in other countries of the European Union, we would come up at the same level of managers as the average in the European Union. Instead, the government chooses to limit and prevent welfare companies. It also says 'no' to women to run businesses in precisely one area where the labour market is large and where many women are educated. If you really cared about improving women's opportunities in business and increasing equality between men and women, the gender distribution in private company boards is a symbolic issue. It is far less important than reforms that increase women's entrepreneurship, facilitate women's careers and make it easier to reconcile family life with working life. It is clear to me that this is a symbolic issue, an alibi for pursuing some kind of dogmatic policy that is hitting women's entrepreneurship, welfare, reducing RUT deductions, countering freedom of choice and raising taxes. For the 99% of women who are not candidates for board fees, this means a decline. What are you doing for all those women?
i-53799cdb94780c05-509	Mrs. Old President! When you work with gender equality issues is a common argument that you are in favour of gender equality, but this is something you should not do without something else. We are investing as a key issue in our gender equality policy on women and men. Women in particular are lagging behind economically, not least since you left the government. We're spending $2 billion on care for the elderly. It is a very women-dominated profession. We are investing 1 billion in social care for children and young people. Unfortunately, it was in a deplorable state when we took over 2014. We are increasing maintenance support for single parents – a large majority of women, who, unfortunately, have also been lagging behind very economically. We're raising the foundation of parental insurance. We are taking a series of measures to strengthen gender equality overall. But we have an agreement that equality also increases when we talk about women's influence to the same extent as men's. Then there must be proposals on how to achieve it. I don't hear any suggestions from Isabella Hökmark on the matter. Gender equality is clearly to be solved by itself, although there is no evidence that it does.
i-53799cdb94780c05-512	Mrs. Old President! Now there are statistics from Norway. Quotation on company boards has not had any impact on executive level, middle management level or CEO level. I wonder what it will lead to. If the Government is clear that it wants to introduce quotas, it is unclear how it wants to achieve equality between men and women. You list contributions. I don't understand how the subsidies will get more women to run businesses. Gender equality is not affected by the fact that a few board professionals receive more assignments. You say you're a feminist government. The whole reform is about giving a few already privileged women another task. I would say that both highly educated and highly paid women can receive another contribution, and all the others have to fight on. It is difficult in welfare companies to make money from what they do, as men can do in the construction industry and other companies that also share in tax money. You're always saying that you're taxing people's money and taking out profits. This is done in the construction companies and the strong trade unions run by the men. Women in welfare companies should not be allowed to make money from their businesses. There won't be any companies there either. They have decreased in number since you have imposed restrictions, threatened to limit profits in welfare and reduced RUT. The Social Democrats are giving a number of privileged women another assignment. That is what your gender equality reform is all about.
i-53799cdb94780c05-517	Mrs. Old President! I am pleased to announce that, in the case of grants, we have abolished the custody allowance. That really was a terrible contribution. It locked women in. It was evaluated and monitored that it was so. Low-paid women stayed at home with the reform you were behind, not only once but twice, even when you knew that the evaluation showed that the contribution kept women away from the labour market. The government is not against entrepreneurship at all. That is not what the issue of welfare gains is about, but Isabella Hökmark knows that very well. We have made a number of efforts, and we will continue on equality policy. There are, for example, 100 million for local women's pools. 10 billion to the municipalities will benefit women because many women work there. There are still major problems with women's incomes. The fact that women receive only about 70% of men's pension levels reflects unequal working and private life. That's why we have to work on a lot of things at the same time. We still do not understand why we should leave the question. I do not want to legislate for the sake of legislation. Sweden does not have such a tradition. It is possible to resolve this issue in industry itself.
i-53799cdb94780c05-520	Mrs. Old President! Sten Bergheden has asked me why I have not implemented the Alliance's meal initiative decided by the Riksdag in 2014, if I have taken any initiatives to start work on the Alliance's meal initiative and what I intend to do to increase the elderly's ability to choose food for themselves. Nutrient and good food is an obvious part of elderly care. It is also important that there is enough time to create a pleasant and inviting meal situation. The Government allocates SEK 2 billion per year in 2016 – 2018 to increase staffing with the aim of raising the quality of care for the elderly, increasing the security of the elderly and improving the conditions for equal, equal and equal care for the elderly throughout the country. With increased staffing in care for the elderly, space is increased to offer meals of good quality. In June 2015, the Government decided to instruct a special investigator to develop proposals for a national quality plan for elderly care. The aim is to ensure the development of good quality in future care for the elderly through long-term efforts in strategically important areas. Security of personnel supply is an important part of the mission. As a complement to the increased staffing, the Government has also allocated SEK 200 million in 2016 to strengthen the skills of basic staff in activities in the care of the elderly and disabled. In order to create long-term planning conditions for municipalities and county councils, the government has also announced that this autumn it will propose that SEK 10 billion will be added to the municipal sector over the next year from 2017 onwards. The welfare billions create the conditions for municipalities to satisfy, among other things, the elderly's right to food of good quality. The Food Authority's work continues. During 2016, the Swedish Food Safety Agency has been given a continued mandate to operate and further develop competence centres for meals in healthcare, school and care. Competence centres shall provide knowledge in areas such as sensorys, meal knowledge, sustainable eating habits, nutrition, hygiene and safety. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and general guidelines on prevention of and treatment for malnutrition apply from 1 January 2015. In its 2015 Municipal and Unity Survey, the National Board of Health and Welfare notes an increased application of procedures to prevent malnutrition. The proportion of older people with an up-to-date implementation plan that contains information on the elderly person's wishes and needs in connection with meals has increased compared to the previous survey. The implementation plan should include when, where and how the elderly person wants to be served, as well as the elderly's wishes regarding different dishes or drinks, regardless of the meal of the day. I will continue to monitor developments in this area closely. However, there is no question of any change in legislation.
i-53799cdb94780c05-527	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your intervention, Minister, although there was no response to my interpellation. I hope, however, that we can find answers to the questions I asked in my interpellation. A year and a half ago, I asked the Minister for the Elderly a written question as to whether she intended to implement the Alliance's meal lift and introduce a legal right to good food for the elderly, as proposed by the Swedish Food Administration. The Government answered this question: The Government intends to comply with the Riksdag's decision on a meal initiative in the care of the elderly, but currently does not see changes in legislation regarding food and meal for the elderly as a solution to satisfy the elderly's right to good quality food. ..................................................... That is what the Minister said a year and a half ago. Today we can see that nothing has happened. This meal effort never took place, even though this is a parliamentary decision and a budget decision and the Minister has also stood in this Chamber and said that it should be implemented. That is why I have to ask a supplementary question: why did not the Parliament's decision on the meal scheme take place? Where did you put that bet and that money instead? The Minister is upsetting a lot of new initiatives here, but none of these initiatives, Madam President of the Age, mentions the word a lot of food and elderly people's ability to choose food in their accommodation, which I think is the most obvious thing for a human being. To sit at the end of your life and be dependent on other people and in that situation neither be able to choose food nor how you want it the last part of life I think is inferior considering what well-kept country Sweden is anyway. The Alliance introduced into the budget a meal effort that the current government led by the Social Democrats completely ignored and ignored. Then I find it strange that we do not take the initiative to actually try this opportunity for our elderly people to choose food and get the quality increase that it means in the autumn of their age. Again, where did t go the meal effort? That's not in the minister's answer. Why did not what Parliament ordered and which we had all expected not be carried out?
i-53799cdb94780c05-533	Mrs. Old President! I think I can calm Sten Bergheden. When I answered his previous question about the meal lift, the Riksdag, as he said, had just made a bourgeois budget for 2015. It included a meal lift. In that situation, of course, I worked out from the conditions and budget decided by the Riksdag – the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. During the same spring, however, the situation changed, and the Riksdag decided on a new budget with among other things 1 billion to more staff in elderly care in 2015 and then 6 billion more until 2018. So we are allocating EUR 2 billion a year, in fact almost twice as much as you are allocating to care for the elderly as a whole, plus EUR 200 million a year for the development of skills, such as dementia, which this also has a great bearing on, because we need to understand those in the care of the elderly who have dementia and who need time for meals. I travel around a lot and have followed up on the staffing effort. It has been used very quickly, because there was a great need for it. Among other things, they say that they use it for quality-enhancing measures such as being present longer, creating peace and quiet around the meals and discussing how the meals should be done and also what they should contain. Your bet was 100 million and would apply to care for the elderly and preschool. It was a good initiative, but it does not suggest much, I have to say, compared with 2 billion plus 200 million.
i-53799cdb94780c05-537	Mrs. Old President! Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is now the case that what the Riksdag decides on should also be implemented and implemented. It is obvious, and the Minister will admit that you simply ignored this initiative. It's as simple as that. You simply have not done this, and that is why I am putting this interpellation today. Despite the fact that the Minister said so clearly, and it is written as well as in statements, that this should be done, we simply skip it. Then they try to say here, today, that it was such a small bet so it was not so much worth. But if it were a small venture, you might have been able to make it. However, you chose to go another way. Instead, the minister and government are talking about spending 2 billion to go to more staff. Then my supplementary question must be: how will 2 billion more staff improve the food and choice of elderly people in retirement homes? I understand that it increases the number of staff, and I think that's great, but how does that improve the food out there? How does it improve the elderly's ability to choose their food? The third question is: how are you going to evaluate these 2 billion, how much better food has become and how much freedom of choice has increased? What incentives have you built in to evaluate that the food really gets better? In fact, today the Minister is here promising that the food will be better and that there will be greater freedom of choice with these 2 billion, even though it is not written anywhere. I am interested in how to evaluate this and put pressure on the municipalities to implement it when you don't write with a single word that you think this is important. Again, I will stand here and repeat the Minister's promise of six months or a year and follow up on how food has been improved by the initiative that the Government is now taking in its budget. I assume that what the Minister is saying here today is correct and that this initiative has actually been implemented. I welcome it, because I think it is extremely important for our elderly to have access to better food and greater freedom of choice and that they can eat the food they want in the autumn of their age. I'll stay there for so long, but I'd like some answers to my questions. How will you follow up on this? And will the Minister be able to reply that this initiative has strengthened the quality of food and the freedom of choice of our elderly when I ask the question of a year to make sense of the fact that this is actually being done?
i-53799cdb94780c05-544	Mrs. Old President! The government has the right to rule, and I have followed Parliament's decisions. As I explained in the previous speech here, we are not devoting money, we are already devoting it – 1 billion last year, what was left, and 2 billion the rest of the term of office. Since I am extremely present in the municipalities and too many systematic discussions with various actors in the care of the elderly, I know that these funds are already being used, among other things, to engage in dialogue with the elderly about how they want it around meals, what can be done to prevent falls and how to improve the quality of life at all for the elderly. Moreover, there is a connection between eating properly in peace and quiet and keeping track of what you get and preventing, for example, falls. Among other things, this initiative should be able to contribute through increased staff in care for the elderly. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has a mission to follow up on this staffing initiative, and I am quite confident that the elderly's meal situation will be greatly improved with the help of this historically large investment in staffing combined with investments in skills development and other things that we do in elderly care. We are happy to discuss this again; I look forward to it.
i-53799cdb94780c05-548	Mrs. Old President! It's great that the minister is out for systematic talks, but it's even better if you actually enter the terms of the money you deliver to the municipalities that you expect this to be implemented. It would have been clearer and a wiser decision in this situation than to go around the country and say: This may be important, although we have not written it and we have not announced that it will land there ourselves. It is a different way of working, and it does not increase my confidence in the initiative directly. We have to evaluate whether the result has been successful when we are going to agree whether our older people have been given better food and increased freedom of choice. I think it is serious that the Minister and the government have ignored the food initiative and called it small – apparently insignificant – and meant that they did not do this. Yes, this was an initiative that the Alliance and the Riksdag actually decided on because they wanted to prioritise this opportunity and see where it could go. We also see that the government and the Minister have not clearly invested any new money on the freedom of choice or food in this budget either. Other efforts have been made, but neither has this money been earmarked for food. Today, however, the Minister is saying that this will be an effort for food and freedom of choice and other things in the municipalities, which I think is desirable and of course good. I also believe that the Minister and the Government are not only disregardful of Parliament's decisions, but are, in fact, very disregardful of our elderly people out there when you ignore their choices.
i-53799cdb94780c05-553	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Sten Bergheden! A different way of working, said Sten Bergheden. Yes, I think it's a slightly different way of working. If you are so passionate about one issue and have so much commitment to it as Sten Bergheden shows here, I wonder why you allocate 100 million to both elderly care and preschool, which is about half of what the government allocates only to elderly care. That seems to me to be a different way of working. I would argue that our initiative promotes the welfare and welfare of the elderly, and we will see this in the evaluations that we are doing. I'm convinced of that. I am happy to come back to this debate, and I think it is really great that we are this committed.
i-53799cdb94780c05-556	Mrs. Old President! Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I have taken to increase equality between women and men with disabilities and whether I intend to take any initiatives to eliminate the differences in support offered to women and men with disabilities. Lotta Finstorp particularly highlights in her question the inequality among the beneficiaries of activity support and wage subsidies. The goal of the Government's gender equality policy is for women and men to have the same power to shape society and their lives. This applies to all women and men regardless of their ability to function. Economic equality is, of course, a prerequisite here. The Government's gender equality policy aims to ensure that women and men have the same opportunities for education and paid work that gives economic independence throughout their lives. There is still a lot of work to be done in this area. The government's main strategy for achieving gender equality policy objectives is gender mainstreaming. This applies to gender mainstreaming within the Government Office, but also to a programme called Jim, Gender mainstreaming in government agencies. The government has increased the number of activities to be covered by the programme to 60. To complement the programme, the University of Gothenburg has been commissioned by the Government to support the authorities' work on gender mainstreaming and to compile and analyse the results. A gender equality analysis of living conditions and the opportunities for participation of persons with disabilities from the Swedish Agency for Participation, now a Jim Authority, shows that there are differences in access to support between girls and boys and women and men to whom persons with disabilities are entitled. In the framework of the Government's efforts on gender mainstreaming in public authorities, the relevant authorities have taken many steps to address unfair differences, but further work is needed to address inappropriate differences in access to support. In its action plan for gender mainstreaming 2015– 2018, the Employment Service, which is the authority that handles the salary subsidy, has formulated that women and men should have access to mediation and programme activities on equal terms. To achieve this, the Authority has identified a number of development needs. They include, among other things, developing training courses for employees and managers so that they take into account a gender perspective in their operations but also a need to develop competence planning to cope with assignments in the field of gender equality needs. The Social Insurance Agency, which deals with activity support cases, has in turn developed a corresponding action plan for gender mainstreaming 2015–2018 with the aim that there should be no inappropriate differences between women and men, either in processing, decision-making or treatment. The starting point for Försäkringskassan's work is that gender equality work should permeate the entire agency. Our ambition is to achieve greater gender equality among grant recipients, activity support and other grants through increased awareness and knowledge of inappropriate differences in the management of matters depending on gender and strategic development work.
i-53799cdb94780c05-564	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. My starting point for this interpellation is the report that the Swedish Agency for Participation was commissioned to do in accordance with the regulatory letter 2015. The report presents an analysis of gender equality regarding living conditions and the possibility of participation of persons with disabilities. One of the perspectives of the analysis is disability and gender. The analysis shows worrying differences between the sexes. The Minister's reply shows that the relevant authorities will take action to address these gender differences. This raises further questions on my part. Persons with one or more disabilities are not a homogeneous group. Here in Sweden we are often fooled to talk, I think, about people divided into groupings as if they have the same needs and the same skills. I believe that society at large has made it easy for itself by narrowly defining people in groups with some form of impairment. That is why one of my conclusions is that the gender perspective has been forgotten precisely when it comes to disability policy. It has been gained that those who are disabled should be involved in society on equal terms, but they have lost the gender perspective. One of the government's gender equality policy objectives is that women and men should have the same opportunities and conditions in terms of education and paid work that gives economic independence for the rest of their lives. In the report that the Swedish Agency for Participation has done, there are a lot of frightening facts for something that has been around for many decades. But it should be quite easily addressed in today's society if you have a different perspective, a different approach, when you take on it. In the field of education, studies and statistics show that people with disabilities have a lower level of education than the rest of the population. In the total population, women have a higher level of education than men. However, there is a paradox in the fact that boys with disabilities receive adapted support in school to a greater extent than girls with disabilities receive. According to the report, the low level of education among people with disabilities may be due, for example, to the attitude of the educator, didactic ability or weak sensitivity to the pupil's needs. I believe that a great deal can be done there without the need for more resources. It's about attitude. There has been a large increase in diagnosed children in need of special support. There is a clear obesity of boys receiving individual support. And, of course, what happens during school hours affects the possibility of work and participation. What does the Minister think is the cause of inequality? That's a pretty big question. Are girls underdiagnosed because boys are generally more outward-looking? It is the quiet girls who risk not getting the support they need. If the silent girl is also disabled, perhaps in different areas, the risk is enormous that she does not get the support she needs. How does the Minister view it? How does the government work for greater equality in school for these students? Let's start with the training. The report shows that the gender perspective and inequality are indeed worrying. The minister says you work with the authorities. But how long will it take before we can see concrete examples in society?
i-53799cdb94780c05-574	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Lotta Finstorp! When I got the interpellation, I thought: How nice to discuss this! Because we don't do that very often. And I agree with you on most of what you say in your post. There are inexplicable gender differences, usually in favour of boys and men. In addition, it is probably the case that the discussion has not come as far for a variety of reasons, as in other areas of society. I feel that the gender equality debater and gender equality workers have long been responsible for this too. So there is much to do here. Nevertheless, we know a lot more, and there is evidence, as we have just mentioned. We will receive proposals from the Swedish Agency for Participation this summer. They have gone through the previous disability policy, and on the basis of it they make proposals for a wider disability strategy. In it, the gender aspects should be taken into account, precisely because we know that there are differences. My intention is to really try to contribute to measures that correct gender inequalities. We had a discussion in this House earlier on the law on support and service and assistance compensation. As far as this is concerned, we also know that boys and men get more input than girls and women. I recently met children who in various ways have been the subject of social services. It was clear that girls who were eventually diagnosed with adhd had to wait a long time and spin around in various investigations, because they had simply not asked those questions and thought that girls did not show the right symptoms. It's really something to keep an eye on. It is an observation that the Ombudsman for Children has also made. Unfortunately, we also know that violence against women with disabilities is more common than violence against other women. So there are important issues to be addressed. We're trying to do it. In the LSS investigation, for example, this will be an important part. In the assignment to the Authority for Participation, it is an important part. In the case of the 100 million women's shelters, this should be taken into account and so on. I can only say: Yes, this is a big and important question. We're trying to work systematically on it.
i-UB1JxEiqKTRopfMh7k9NoW	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I believe, as I started with, that society wants disabled people to be involved. It's obvious. We are still quite good at it in Sweden. But we have lost the gender perspective because the one who is heard and seen gets more. It is important to ensure quality support and advice that people need, so that it is not given unfairly depending on the gender they have. We are now moving from education, where it is really unequal when it comes to getting support based on their disability, to the Public Employment Service and the coding that is done there. The report states that Arbetsförmedlingen's classification coding can play a role. If the jobseeker early receives a disability code, more support and targeted measures are provided. The remarkable thing is that women, to a lesser extent than men, receive this code when they are tested and investigated by the Employment Service regarding work capacity in the matching between work capacity and the requirements of a workplace. As a result, women's and men's opportunities to participate in targeted actions are very unequal. It's serious. Wage subsidies are also a gender perspective issue. Fewer women than men receive wage subsidies. In fact, in the public sector, it is quite poor at employing people with wage subsidies. The public sector should take precedence. But it is often the private employers who are happy to accept someone who has a wage subsidy. They have a social commitment to a person they employ in that way. What does the Minister think is due to the fact that municipalities and county councils employ people with wage subsidies to a much smaller extent? It's pretty upsetting. It has been so for many years. You can't do that. This is also about participation in democratic assemblies. This report is about that too. There we own the issue, we who are here in this Chamber – in municipalities, in county councils and in Parliament. A larger proportion of people with disabilities are members of a political party compared to the rest of the population. It must be about information and the feeling of being a part of the community. We must all take it to heart and open up our parties in a different way. A prerequisite for political engagement is accessibility from various aspects. It is about being able to receive information and be able to be active in social matters and so on. Physical inaccessibility is one thing. A smaller proportion of women than men with disabilities are members of political parties. That's where it comes through. How does the Minister feel about that? How will the Minister's party work to make more women with disabilities feel that there is an open door into your party but also our party? The parties really have something to do there. When it comes to health assessment – you estimate your health – you also have a worse estimate of your health. It cannot be explained solely by disability. We need to raise the issue much more, so that we do not lose the gender perspective when it comes to disabled people. The Alliance government gave priority to improving labour market conditions for people with disabilities and increasing the employment rate. That's good. But the gender perspective was not entirely included. In fact, I can be critical of that.
i-53799cdb94780c05-590	Mrs. Old President! This is the self-critical debate, but it is a very important issue. When it comes to gender equality policy in general, we in Sweden have seen examples that just own paid work and self-support is a thing in gender equality. If you have your own livelihood and money that you can control, you have much more opportunity to decide over your life and make your choices. Not all people living with disabilities are able to work on the regular labour market and may not be able to work with various forms of wage support. But that women and men should have the same opportunities, that you should see women and men in the same way, see their resources, opportunities and will in the same way is extremely important. It is a task for me, for the Minister for Labour and also for the Minister for Education to ensure that this chain is established. I can only agree with the public sector. It is clear that the public sector will have to step up in this respect. I have nothing more to say on this matter. You started by saying that the one who is heard and seen gets more, Lotta Finstorp. In the Sweden that I want to build and the social model that I stand for, it should be exactly the opposite. It's supposed to be the same. You're supposed to get rights because you have rights. It should not matter what gender you have or whether you have strong relatives who speak for you. When I meet organizations that represent the disability movement, sometimes we talk about this issue. I think we need to be more concrete at all. I hope that the bases that I will receive can provide more knowledge. Let's get to work. The new disability policy is such an arena where you can do it.
i-53799cdb94780c05-597	Mrs. Old President! Self-sufficiency is important. Whether you have a disability or not, self-sufficiency for women, for example, is extremely important for you to also feel part of society. It could be a policy that supports entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, social enterprises in various ways. This also applies to self-employment, which is a very good form if you want to test yourself in the labour market. Then it is important that all the authorities involved – people with disabilities often have to deal with different authorities – interact. I think it's really important to be more concrete, absolutely. You should look at the Funka investigation. It would be interesting to hear: where is the Funka investigation today and when can we expect a delivery for decision? Better opportunities for study-motivating courses, the identification of disabilities and the assessment of work capacity were highlighted by the Alliance government. The Funka report and proposals must be taken into account so that we do not start again, because it will take even longer. A person with a disability who is a woman is at risk of inappropriate differences at several levels, both in terms of lack of participation and in dealing with his case of financial support, and in terms of the financial level of support. Hopefully, the person with whom you have a job, the employer, has a gender-neutral approach. Unless the woman and the disabled risk being exposed to inequality from the cradle to the grave.
i-53799cdb94780c05-603	Mrs. Old President! I would like to thank Lotta Finstorp for this interpellation and debate. I would like to conclude by saying that I would like to work for us to move forward on this issue. I will shortly be presenting the directives for the LSS investigation, which is a very big issue in this area. Lotta Finstorp will probably find them interesting from this point of view. I am happy to talk about this issue in different contexts. As a matter of fact, the Funka inquiry is on the table of the Minister for Labour, but we have also discussed it with the movement. The Minister for Labour is working on various proposals in it, and they can also be considered in the new disability policy. Thank you very much for an interesting subject!
i-53799cdb94780c05-607	Mrs. Old President! Mr Rothenberg has asked me what I intend to do to strengthen Swedish ports' ability to compete successfully for more cruises. First of all, I would like to say that the Swedish Maritime Administration is a company whose main sources of income are fairway and pilotage fees. The work has, for various reasons, had a strained economy in recent years. It is the Swedish Maritime Administration that largely determines the amount of fees. It is important for Sweden to be able to compete for cruise runs as these are of great importance for developing both tourism and business around the country. A well-functioning port operation is essential for the competitiveness of ports. Responsibility for the Swedish port structure within a port area lies with the port owner. The State has a responsibility for the infrastructure connected to a port facility and then both on the sea and land side. There is currently a revision of the Swedish Maritime Administration's charging system, which is taking place in dialogue with the parties involved in the shipping industry. Ports play an important role here.
i-53799cdb94780c05-611	Mrs. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Swedish fairway fees are quite unique. In Europe, few other countries use them. For example, the large port Rotterdam has no fairway fees. It is something that affects competition for Swedish shipping and for shipping in general. Sweden is a country that wants more shipping. Maritime transport is environmentally friendly, resource-efficient, ecological and creates space for road and rail transport, moving more freight management to the waterway. It is not only goods but also people who are being transported. Cruise runs have become a very interesting and growing market. There may be a cruise ship to the port of Gothenburg loaded with 1 000 – 2 000 tourists. They go ashore for a few hours in Gothenburg and spend an average of about a thousand each. It is therefore about millions of crowns of purchasing power and money that flows into Sweden. We would like more cruise tourists in Sweden. Over the last two years, there has been a radical reduction in cruise runs in the port of Gothenburg. But Gothenburg is not alone, as is the case with other ports in Sweden. Loss of purchasing power leads to missing port charges. There will be less money for Sweden at all. Where, then, do they go instead? Well, they go to other countries, such as Denmark. On the other side of Kattegat you now land in Skagen instead of coming to Gothenburg. You avoid going around our coast to Stockholm. The answer given by the Minister was a rather clinical one. I wonder where the idea of fairway charges is. Where is the idea of shipping as a developing industry? Where is the idea that we should have more inland waterways that can relieve the roads and railways? Where's the will?
i-53799cdb94780c05-620	There is much to be said about this with fairway charges. The other day I published an article in the Maritime Magazine. There were quite a few comments on it. Many were very encouraging and said: Thank you, finally someone who highlights this. Fairway charges also tend to distinguish between large and small ships. Today, the largest vessels receive a discount compared to smaller short sea vessels. It considers that the major ocean routes are important and that they must have a lower level of charges for reasons of competition. This indicates that our system is hampering shipping and thus also industry.
i-53799cdb94780c05-623	Mrs. Old President! The method of financing the Swedish Maritime Administration's activities has been in force for a long time. If I am not mistaken, Mr Rothenberg represents a party which, for eight years, had the government in Sweden and had had every opportunity to raise funds from taxpayers to pay what is currently paid with fairway fees. They chose not to. Perhaps it is a sign that we are in fact quite in agreement that it is reasonable that those who use the sea routes should also pay a fee for it, not least the pilot fee, which is a direct subsidy to an individual vessel. Otherwise, we would have had a very difficult time taxing foreign ships using our fairways. I believe that a fair balance has been struck in the charging of fairway charges. If it were the case that cruise shipping companies opt out of Swedish ports because of fairway charges, it would be very strange if this change had occurred from last year to this year. There have been no dramatic changes in fairway charges. If you are to draw that kind of conclusion, you probably need to go a little deeper and ask the cruise shipping companies why they lay their routes as they do and for what reasons they opt out of certain Swedish ports. In Gothenburg's case, it is probably more about offering a varied range to cruise passengers who may choose to go on a cruise ship each year and who want to see several different cities when they choose to come back. What the city offers in terms of experiences and offers once cruise passengers rise ashore is probably an important aspect of attracting cruise ships such as fairway fees. J ag believes that tourism and destination developers have to consider how to attract more cruise ships to Swedish ports, rather than pointing to fairway charges. However, if Hans Rothenberg and the Moderates have a strong proposal to finance the activities of the Swedish Maritime Administration, Hans Rothenberg is free to present such a proposal in the Riksdag.
i-53799cdb94780c05-628	Mrs. Old President! This may be called a soft transition. A few years ago, during the time of the alliance government, we saw that the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances were falling apart. The Alli Government contributed just over 1 billion to the Swedish Maritime Administration for three years in order not to have to increase the fairway charges. Now that time is running out. It is also the case that there is a proposal for a referral on new fairway fees. They shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. In the major ports, the port of Stockholm and the port of Gothenburg, there is now a huge concern that cruise ships and the tourism industry will be major losers. For cruise ships, this proposal would mean a 14% increase in costs. These are sums that are not ashamed of this competitive market. Mrs. Old President! The Minister is absolutely right – the fairway fee system has been in place for a long time. But the world is changing. In their eight years, the Alliance government could at least see that the danger came. For example, Denmark has made it more profitable and more attractive to go to Danish ports. The Alliance government saw that tonnage tax would have to be introduced in Sweden, as the world around it made the competitive disadvantage far too obvious for Swedish shipping. We therefore initiated an investigation, which Anna Johansson as Minister will be pleased to launch in June. We'd be happy to buy it. I think it is important to work together on these things. But it is important to be observant when something happens in the environment. That is precisely what I would like to ask you. Is the government aware of the changes that are taking place in the outside world? Do you think it is a matter of special interest for the tourism industry and that you should focus solely on it? Or is it that traffic charges are also interacting and that you have to think a little bit between the drain pipes? In the Minister's interpellation response there was not much of a hint of willingness to make any change. That is why my question remains. If the international changes continue, are the government and the minister prepared to make changes to the fairway charges and not only to go to market, shipping companies and ports, but also to make a contribution to the Swedish economy? It is the loss of purchasing power that this is about, and purchasing power should not be turned down, even if we are in the midst of a boom.
i-53799cdb94780c05-634	Mrs. Old President! Well, let's start by getting history straight. There was a complete investigation into tonnage tax already when the alliance government took office in 2006. Nevertheless, it was only in the last quaking minutes of its government period that the Alliance Government issued the investigation mission on the introduction of tonnage tax. But the directives for that investigation said very clearly that the whole adjustment would be financed in the sector. So shipping would have to pay the cost of a tonnage tax itself. These were the conditions for the investigation. We pushed on this issue very strongly for many years in opposition. Then the present government has taken on board the investigation that the alliance government had certainly prepared. In fact, we are funding this change in half so that shipping has a positive economic outcome. I am really looking forward to seeing the effects now that the tonnage tax is hopefully introduced. I hope for an increase for the Swedish merchant fleet. This is extremely important in order to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. It is also important to ensure that we can maintain competence in the maritime sector by having shipping companies where young people who train in the industry can get internships and their first job. This is an extremely important issue for strengthening Swedish shipping. On the second question, I can answer that there is a way of saying that you should not fix something that is not broken. If you are going to make changes to such a thing as fairway charges, you should know that they are the problem. But neither Hans Rothenberg nor I know that today. We can see that there has been a change in the number of cruise runs. It can be argued from various stakeholders that this has to do with fairway charges. However, this is not, in fact, something we know, and there has been no recent change in fairway charges which would lead to a substantial change in the number of calls. There is reason to review both the port structure in Sweden and how we can tighten up the maritime industry at all. That is why we have said that, in addition to the maritime strategy that we presented last summer, we intend to come back with a maritime initiative. We will do so too. However, there are currently no plans to change the funding of the Swedish Maritime Administration's activities.
i-53799cdb94780c05-638	Mrs. Old President! I'd be happy to do the debate. Let's do it together! "The last quaking minutes," says the Government. It was in 2011 that the directives came to the investigation into the introduction of tonnage tax. Those directives differed from previous directives and previous investigations. The aim was to investigate how it would be possible to introduce a tonnage tax. The investigation was delayed, but has now landed, and it is a united parliament that wants to introduce this. It is good that we agree on that. But it wasn't in the last quaking minutes the mission was given. You shouldn't fix what's not broken, says the government. But I think that Anna Johansson's party in the election movement drove the thesis that something had broken in Sweden. Obviously, there is quite a lot that needs to be fixed. It is problematic that Swedish shipping today testifies to the fact that one of the biggest costs and stumbling blocks in development is fairway charges. They represent a significant part of the total cost of shipping companies. At the same time, we see that Denmark, for example, has a clear competitive advantage because Danish shipping companies do not have to pay a state fairway fee. This has contributed, among other things, to a drastic reduction in the share of cruise trips to Gothenburg, from 73 in 2014 to 34 expected in this year. Swedish ports and ships should have the same conditions and conditions of competition as other European shipping and, not least, as our Nordic neighbours. It is these world changes that we should be alert about and that I would like the government to see as well. I think we agree that our country is a country dependent on shipping. If Swedish shipping and our ports are to remain competitive, we need a stronger opportunity for Swedish ports and shipping companies to compete for cruise runs. These should be able to take place under competitive conditions compared to our neighbouring countries.
i-53799cdb94780c05-644	Mrs. Old President! Now, for many years of your government's ownership, you saw how the Swedish merchant fleet was flagged out at a rapid pace, without taking any action or taking any initiative. Certainly an investigation was initiated, but it was after quite a lot of pressure from the then Social Democratic opposition. And it took time, but we don't have to talk about it anymore. There is a strong interest from the Social Democratic Government to take measures to strengthen the number of jobs in Sweden and Sweden's competitiveness and to ensure that we become an interesting tourist and tourist destination for more people. It is one of our most important and fastest growing export industries. There is a strong and genuine interest, but then we will do what we think has the best effect. Something has broken in Swedish society. It is, for example, about the welfare and the security of people's everyday lives. This means that when taking measures to fix what has broken, priority should be given to doing what is most important first. I am definitely prepared to look at more issues in the maritime industry and how we can facilitate the strengthening of Swedish competitiveness in this area. But it is foolish to start with a measure that we do not actually know if it solves the problems. Comparisons with Denmark, for example, are limping somewhat, for I know that Denmark is a slightly smaller country with rather much shorter sea routes and therefore lower costs for pilotage fees and fairway maintenance, among other things. I am happy to continue the discussion on how we can strengthen Swedish shipping. However, let us not start by attacking the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances and fairway fees, but let us start by looking at an overall picture.
i-53799cdb94780c05-650	Mrs. Old President! Mikael Oscarsson has asked me the following: Initially, I would like to say that the Swedish Maritime Administration is the responsible authority for maritime and air rescue within the Swedish area of responsibility according to the accident protection law and the accident protection regulation. The activities are essentially governed by international commitments through various conventions. Answer to question 1: According to the Accident Protection Act, state resources must be available when municipal emergency services need them. The new rescue helicopters, which were procured during the last parliamentary term, represent an improved capacity to help the rest of society's rescue services, such as the municipal and police. Accidents in the mountain environment are one such example. As far as forest fires are concerned, I can only say that the Maritime Administration does not have this task, nor has it ever been called upon by previous governments to do so. It is not at all true, as Mikael Oscarsson claims, that the work's helicopters lack the ability to help the rest of society's rescue services. I have been informed that 25% of the alarms used by the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters stem from either municipal or police incidents. Answer to question 2: According to the information I have received from the Swedish Maritime Administration, it is not the new rescue helicopters themselves that have driven costs, but the incorporation of operations whose companies have been in default, the implementation of the Swedish Transport Agency's regulations and new collective agreements for helicopter crews. Answer to question 3: At present, there is collaboration between state-owned maritime operating authorities using the collective resources of society, and it is essentially based on civil protection, monitoring and control and law enforcement activities. This is done both operationally and on the basis of preparedness and at a strategic level. Collaboration takes place at local, regional and national level, which together contributes to the efficient use of the overall maritime operational resources of the state. Answer to question 4: The Government is not considering transferring the head of sea and air rescue from the Swedish Maritime Administration to the Coast Guard.
i-53799cdb94780c05-656	Mrs. Old President! This with helicopters is important to discuss. It is expensive, but at the same time it is an important part of saving human lives, for example. It is also important to discuss this, not least now that we are going to rebuild civil defence. I have been involved in this for a long time, and that is the background to my request for this interpellation debate. When you listen to the government, it sounds like everything is already gold and green forests. That is not the case. Cooperation is, of course, taking place in some respects, but it is absolutely not coordinated in the way it would have to be. You can start by taking part in Jan Hyllander's solid maritime investigation from 2012. It proposes that the operational resources of maritime authorities should be more used. Fire-extinguishing could be an opportunity for better use of resources. It also says that the government should in the long term consider a change in the headship of sea and air rescue. It is proposed that this should go under the Coast Guard and that the Coast Guard should go under the Swedish Armed Forces as is the case in Norway and in most places in Europe. There is no cooperation between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Maritime Administration regarding sea rescue. The Armed Forces do not have that mission, even though they have 33 medium-helicopters at their disposal. When it comes to firefighting by helicopter, the Swedish Maritime Administration's seven newly purchased helicopters do not even have a cargo hook and thus cannot help extinguish forest fires. The Swedish Armed Forces have no mission to stand ready for such things. This is done in accordance with time and opportunity and is entirely left to the Swedish Armed Forces' good will to practice and maintain competence in the field. The argument that the overall maritime operating resources of the State would be used effectively is therefore not true. Secondly, during the Estonia disaster a total of 25 helicopters participated in the rescue work. The Swedish Armed Forces participated with 13 military helicopters. Today, the Swedish Armed Forces do not have a single helicopter allocated for sea rescue. Should a disaster similar to the Estonia occur tonight or this autumn, Sweden through the Swedish Maritime Administration has only five helicopters in readiness. These are also distributed throughout Sweden, with all that it means. The Swedish Armed Forces now do not have a single rescue helicopter on standby, as it was considered that this is no longer a task for the Swedish Armed Forces. As I see it, it was very reasonable that the Swedish Armed Forces had a requirement to be a strengthening resource in the event of a similar disaster. It's a stand-by that doesn't exist today. Thirdly, on 1 August 1999, 17 years ago, one of the worst forest fires in Sweden broke out in Tyresta National Park. The fire lasted a whole week, and 450 hectares of forest burned down. What was crucial for the possibility of gaining control of the extensive fire was the Swedish Armed Forces' helicopters. At that time, there were crews in position for sea rescue. Then 17 helicopters could be deployed to combat the fire effectively. Today, the Armed Forces have 33 medium-helicopters, but they have no requirement at all. Nor does the Swedish Maritime Administration. My question to the Government is: Is this reasonable?
i-53799cdb94780c05-668	Madam President, I would like If Mikael Oscarsson wants to ask questions about the defense and how the defense uses its resources, I would suggest that the interpellation be addressed to the Secretary of Defense. Now it was about the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters, and I will try to answer those questions. The investigation referred to is called Maritim's collaboration and was presented in 2012. It is already mentioned at the start of that investigation that it has not been possible to make more detailed cost estimates and impact assessments of a merger. Thus, the investigation does not reveal any saving potential. This means that the conclusion presented by Mikael Oscarsson in the debate is difficult to substantiate. Of course, it is extremely important that the resources at the disposal of society as a whole, especially in the case of equipment as expensive as helicopters, are used as efficiently and optimally as possible, and that the various government – and indeed municipal and county councils, in so far as this is relevant – units work together to solve major and difficult societal tasks. As far as firefighting is concerned, it is certainly true that the current helicopters cannot participate in extinguishing work. On the other hand, helicopters can take part in rescue work, i.e. get people out in a fire-stricken area. Since the helicopters have been purchased to cope with sea rescue and rescue operations in general, it is reasonable that they are also equipped in a way that is optimal for that task. Then there are other elements of community preparedness that are focused on, for example, being able to extinguish forest fires. Helicopters are currently somewhat more expensive than before. But it also has to do with the tightening of safety, staffing and other requirements. For helicopters in the Swedish Maritime Administration today, the cost of helicopters themselves is not higher, but despite the fact that they have better fleet and higher quality, the cost of depreciation and operation is roughly the same as before. I thought I heard criticism in a beets that the helicopters are located around the country. I would like to say that this is an absolute prerequisite for the intended use of helicopters, i.e. participation in rescue operations both at sea and in the mountain world. Then it is reasonable and good if the helicopters are also located in different strategic locations in the country, so that you can get to the accident site as soon as possible, whether it is on the west coast or in the mountains.
i-53799cdb94780c05-675	Madam President, I would like The Government seems to think that it is good to be able to improve collaboration, but there does not seem to be much interest in doing anything about it. We can take this with forest fires. The problem is that the state has no helicopter readiness for forest fires at all. It should be obvious that the state, with so many helicopters, had some preparedness for forest fire extinguishing. This applies to both the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Maritime Administration. However, as the Prime Minister has just said, there are not even the hooks that I have talked about and which are on exactly the same helicopters in Ireland. Doesn't the government think it's a little strange? For example, Gotland, where recently there was a forest fire. At the fire station one could look over to Sjöfartsverket's new, nice helicopter. But you could not get any help at all from there, it was the Swedish Armed Forces' helicopters and two from a private company in Västerås that saved the situation. None of them were prepared for this form of assignment, but it was most a coincidence that they were able to help. Madam President, I would like There are two recent examples of the Swedish Maritime Administration not being able to operate in a mountain environment. Instead they have had to ask for help from Norway. In the last case, the rescue operation was delayed for a severely injured person who had fallen into a ravine, and in the first case it did not even come forward, even though the Swedish Maritime Administration had, as an important argument, pointed out that it would have helicopters that would cope with an Arctic situation. It is true that the Swedish Maritime Administration has helped other authorities with emergency services. However, restrictions have been imposed, such as the refusal to assist ambulance helicopters in northern Gällivare. Does the Government not think that higher demands should be made in terms of training and equipping itself to be able to manage to help everyone who lives in Sweden? Coordination is non-existent. Over the last three years, the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters – at least as far as I know – have never participated in anything that could be defined as surveillance, control or law enforcement. The government said it was 25 percent that involved, among other things, police incidents. I think that the Government could help by giving any example whatsoever of this – I do not think there is. This is a strongly under-used part of society's civil protection. On average, every helicopter from the Swedish Maritime Administration lifts an alarm once a week. I believe that a reorganisation to the Coast Guard and, in turn, under the Swedish Armed Forces, as the investigation suggested, is the only way to effectively start using and using this state resource. As I said before, Sweden is the only country in Europe except Germany where the Coast Guard is not part of the Swedish Armed Forces. It is very clear that a fresh start is needed. With regard to the economy, Madam President, the problem is that the Maritime Administration's management promised everyone – not least its board of directors and the Government Office – that the new helicopters would make the operation cheaper. Norrland flights, which were taken over, were not in default at all, but the last year was a win. On the other hand, the Swedish Maritime Administration was concerned about the long-term viability of the company. But that is quite different from saying that you are in default. Now we do not have time for this debate, but we could talk for a long time about all the strange things that have edged the Swedish Maritime Administration's procurement of the helicopters. Hotmail is used instead of the formal route. You order before the Riksdag has made a decision. Does the Government really think that this is a reasonable way of dealing with such an important ability as society should have? Are there not opportunities for improvement?
i-53799cdb94780c05-687	Madam President, I would like I would say that there is almost nothing where there are no opportunities for improvement. Surely it is a general state in all human activities that there is always potential for improvement. With regard to the questions raised by Mikael Oscarsson regarding the procurement of the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters, the criteria for how they would be equipped, how the procurement was conducted, when different decisions were taken, where and in what way it was made and the type of contacts used, those questions can be usefully referred to the responsible minister when this took place. It was not me, nor was it a minister from the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government, but it was Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd who was responsible for the government. I would think that in the near future, when the Constitutional Committee submits its report, information on how this was handled will come. In fact, there has been a notification of this very handling, for which I cannot take responsibility. Perhaps it would have been appropriate if Mikael Oscarsson had views on how this would be done if he had presented them to the then government when this was actually the case. I can see that the operation seems to be working well. The fact that the helicopters are not in the air so much of the time may not be surprising, as they should be on standby and on hand in the event of events that require their use. It is, as in the nature of the matter, that this type of vehicle is not in use much of the time. It has not been the intention that the Swedish Maritime Administration should be able to save actively but be able to do search assignments. I did not say in my first speech that it was 25 per cent police missions, but I said that other missions – both civil protection missions and police missions, which are therefore required from other parts of society than the Swedish Maritime Administration's basic task – represent about 25 per cent of the total assignments that the Swedish Maritime Administration has made with the helicopters.
i-53799cdb94780c05-692	Madam President, I would like The procurement that was done and all that happened around there is a great scandal. There is currently, as I believe the Government knows, a review of the National Unit against corruption, and the Competition Authority and the Constitutional Committee are also engaged in an investigation. There will therefore certainly be various types of answers to these questions. But now it is about the future and how the government sees these important issues. In fact, it was promised that this would be cheaper. But it has become just the opposite. It has become 100 million more expensive a year. There were five helicopters to be sold. It was said that the old leases expired, which turned out not to be true. It still says, four years later, four perfectly usable helicopters. The question is whether the Government can tell us what it will cost taxpayers in extra costs. On these important issues of how to build civil defence that has been completely down for 15 to 20 years, the helicopters are such an important part. I used to think it's a good thing they're scattered across the country. But if something similar to what happened with the Estonia should happen, we stand flat. Then we had 17 helicopters for the Swedish Armed Forces who could help. They don't exist today. Right now, in a tougher environment, it's important that we look at our house. Then it is important not to be stuck in prestige but to see that this study, which is four years old, actually delivers important answers to how we can make better use of our resources and make it more economical and help more at a lower cost.
i-53799cdb94780c05-698	Madam President, I would like As the interpellation is written, it does not only apply to the future. It is largely focused on such events and decisions that have been made long before I took office as a minister. Criticism about how the procurement was done, what requirements were placed on the helicopters and the like can be put to the person then responsible, that is then Minister Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd. I'm having trouble answering them. I believe she has done so in the Constitutional Committee. I really look forward to the investigation that both the Swedish Competition Authority and the National Unit against corruption will carry out in order to ensure that these procedures are in place in a good way in the future. If Mikael Oscarsson also wants an answer to the helicopter capacity of the defense, that question can be put to the Minister of Defence. Now this question was about the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopter operations, and I have answered the questions that Mikael Oscarsson has asked. I can once again point out that the cost increases that have been associated with this helicopter activity have not been related to the new helicopters themselves, but have involved the existence of new directives to deal with, new sharper safety requirements and new collective agreements that would have been very costly regardless of what helicopter procurement would have done. These costs would have been incurred anyway, and they cannot be linked to helicopter procurement as such. I think it is extremely important that we ensure – there, Mikael Oscarsson and I can fully agree – that it is extremely important that we have sufficient capacity to cope with also difficult and comprehensive rescue missions and that society's resources must be coordinated and used effectively to ensure society's security.
i-53799cdb94780c05-703	Madam President, I would like Emma Wallrup has asked me three questions. She has asked if I intend to take steps to develop the analysis tool at Trafikverket to take greater account of the long-term sustainable options in the next planning period 2018 – 2029. She has also asked whether I intend to act in order to define long-term ecological sustainability in this work and, finally, whether it is my view that the measures in the transport system that are first implemented today are those that are socially profitable and, at the same time, contribute to reducing emissions. First of all, I would like to express my view that economic instruments are the most effective tools for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. On 19 May, the Government commissioned the Finnish Transport Administration to report on the instruments and measures required in the infrastructure to reduce the transport sector's greenhouse gas emissions by 60 and 80 per cent respectively by 2030 compared to the level in 2010. The Finnish Transport Agency has in its instructions to continuously develop, manage and apply methods and models for socio-economic analyses. The Finnish Transport Agency will also develop and provide current traffic forecasts. The government considers this to be important tasks and follows the work closely. For example, Trafikanalys has been commissioned by the Government to continuously monitor Trafikverket's work on developing models for socio-economic analyses. Here we can now see that there have been improvements compared to previous years. For example, Trafikverket develops models for environmental calculations in a lifecycle perspective and updates values for noise and air pollution. The Finnish Transport Agency has also started a work for model development regarding transport with shipping and its discharges into water. I believe, of course, that long-term sustainability should permeate these tasks. The Finnish Transport Agency will work towards achieving the transport policy objectives. This means, among other things, that the Swedish Transport Administration must work to achieve the overall generational objective for the environment and the environmental quality objectives set by the Riksdag. This presents major challenges. When infrastructure measures are prioritised in the national plan, the economy and the fulfilment of transport policy objectives, such as reductions in emissions and other environmental impacts, shall be important criteria. New infrastructure always involves energy-intensive construction, greenhouse gas emissions, pollution, noise and impact on the ecological values and functions of the landscape. It is therefore important to have adequate evidence that shows all relevant consequences and also describes the projects in a life cycle perspective. The time when projects in the plan can be implemented depends on when the spatial planning process and all permit processes are completed at the same time, as there needs to be an economic space in relation to already ongoing projects. Finally, I can mention that the government is implementing and planning a number of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector, such as the study on a bonus-malus system for new light vehicles and support for the deployment of charging infrastructure through the climate category. The Government also invests SEK 1.24 billion in railway maintenance every year between 2016 and 2018. In addition, SEK 400 million is spent on railway maintenance in a targeted investment towards rural areas and SEK 850 million on public transport in rural areas. The Government also has an investment in urban development agreements where municipalities can receive support for investments in public transport facilities.
i-53799cdb94780c05-709	Madam President, I would like Socio-economic analysis is crucial when priority is given to infrastructure projects. These tools are used to assess the profitability of traffic planning. They have been built up in another time. They were produced before it was clear to us that nature has clear boundaries and that there will be climate chaos if we do not steer progress. We need to adapt the tools to the current situation. Today, for example, discount rates are not used which take into account the profitability and societal efficiency of the infrastructure and take into account long-term sustainable development. It's one thing to have side calculations that bring the environment. It is quite another matter to take into account when calculating the economy. We all know that we as politicians turn and turn every penny around. It is very easy that projects that are profitable in the short term are the priorities. In a situation where we have an acute climate crisis if we do not steer development, it is very important that we now invest in the right investments and that we have good tools to really do so, otherwise the work is not serious. This week, a report was presented in Rosenbad by the IVL Swedish Environmental Institute, which was produced in collaboration with the International Energy Council (IEA). They confirm that the Swedish pace of climate work must be increased considerably and precisely in the area of traffic. They also point out that this is exactly the problem, i.e. that more road use is being invested. They also mention the Stockholm bypass as an example. Bypass Stockholm is just a project that has benefited from these socio-economic analyses. According to Markus Wråke at IVL, this is a crazy way to plan our transport system. According to the report on a fossil-free vehicle fleet, we need to make car traffic more efficient. Only technology development will not lead to our reaching the climate targets. This investigation was produced under the bourgeois government, so even it released an investigation that says that we must invest in less car traffic. It is very good that the Government commissions the Swedish Transport Administration to report instruments and measures to reduce emissions by 60 per cent and 80 per cent respectively by 2030. This is positive, but I hope that it will also lead the government to acknowledge the bourgeois investigation about a fossil-free vehicle fleet – that we need to plan for fewer roads in order not to get induced traffic, that is, that the traffic volumes increase automatically as in a bloodstream. In addition to the important analysis tools developed at Trafikverket in order to take more account of sustainable alternatives in the long term, a definition of ecological sustainability is also needed. This does not exist in the field of transport, and I wonder why the Minister for Infrastructure does not answer my question about it. It is a little symptomatic, because unfortunately there has long been no definition of what is ecological sustainability in the area of traffic. When this is highlighted in the debate, I have noticed that no one wants to touch that ball. I wonder a little about this. Why is it so sensitive? Why can we not have a clear definition of ecological sustainability in the climate policy objectives in the area of transport?
i-53799cdb94780c05-716	Madam President, I would like I think Emma Wallrup knows that the government has set a very ambitious target for Sweden to be one of the first completely fossil-free welfare countries. It will, of course, place high demands on the conversion of different sectors of society. The sector that currently accounts for a far too large proportion of total climate emissions is the transport sector, and that is why we need to take major action in the coming years. I think, however, that you go wrong if you think that you can build away the climate threat, because most of the infrastructure is probably already built. I am quite convinced that we cannot build so much tracks in our country that we can completely replace the car. It would also have a serious impact on nature, the environment and climate to build new railways to the extent that would be needed – except, of course, that it would have taken on extremely large financial resources, which I do not think either Emma Wallrup, me or anyone else is prepared to do. This means that we need to look at which are the most cost-effective and successful ways to switch to a more climate-smart and climate-friendly transport sector. There are many different ways to go. It is about making alternative fuels available and about developing electrification in a better way. These are economic instruments such as congestion taxes, fuel taxes, different types of charges, bonuses – malus systems and how to design different types of aid for e.g. company cars. It's about how we build our cities and how we plan how different modes of transport will fit in the urban environment and how we develop attractive public transport solutions. All these different parts I say are extremely important to have included. Unfortunately, in the debate there has been a very strong focus on infrastructure investment, as if it were alexander cut on the Gordian knot. Unfortunately, I do not think it is that simple, but I think that we will have to make far more – and significantly different – efforts. I am quite convinced that there will also continue to be a need to build for car traffic, because in many parts of the country and for many individuals there is no alternative. However, we will ensure that the cars on Swedish roads do not emit climate gases. That is why we need a conversion of the Swedish fleet of vehicles; that is extremely important. Unfortunately, there is no such simple connection as Emma Wallrup sounds suggestive, that is, people travel less cars if you build more railways. To the extent that there is a connection, the opposite is true, that is to say that car traffic also increases the more rail traffic is being built. I therefore believe that there is a need for a proper analysis of which instruments are most effective and with which, with as little as possible of society's common resources, the best possible results are achieved when it comes to transforming into a climate-smart and fossil-free society.
i-53799cdb94780c05-721	Madam President, I would like It is terrifying with Bypass Stockholm, which according to Trafikverket's own experts is contrary to the climate targets. The Swedish Transport Agency is based on a development of the transport sector's emissions that goes against Sweden's climate targets. This is also the view of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has commented on the Swedish Transport Administration's referral of the focus base for planning the transport infrastructure 2018 – 2029. We have now also received criticism in the recent report by IVL and IEA, the International Energy Agency. Should we continue on the road that means building more and more road instead of investing in public transport and trains? After all, no one is saying that we should travel only on trains or only collectively. It's not about that. In the countryside we will have to go by car, so to some extent we will have to go by car in Sweden. But it's about the big relationships – the big investments. This is where Trafikverket has long gone against its own climate targets, and it has been one of the basics that Sweden does not reach its climate targets. The government must therefore be courageous here. This is a bit about feminist transport planning. After all, the whole transport planning has unfortunately been based on middle class, upper class and businessmen. It has benefited aircraft and cars before public transport and bicycle, and it is quite serious. Unfortunately, many of these men who have not released the old fossil structures remain in different positions. It is both civil servants and politicians, and they continue to drive this development. I think it is important that we women stand up and actually question whether this is the kind of traffic planning that should apply. This is about the future of our children. This is about a climate chaos that we can already see the beginning of if we do not turn the boat around. It is not easy bodies that are pointing out the problem, but the bourgeois government's investigation into a fossil-free vehicle fleet, the IEA, the IVL and so on – a large number of researchers – that points to something called induced traffic. If you build a road, there'll be more cars on those roads. Therefore, it is reasonable to both develop tools and dare to sit down and think through if we really need this much road. For example, Freiburg has planned to reduce car traffic and at the same time reduce the price of the bus, which has led to a massive shift from car traffic to public transport. There has been such a massive relocation that you have received increased revenue despite lowering the price. This is how it works, and it's not bad in any way – either for the national economy or for other goals. Rather, it strengthens the long-term economy in particular. So I think that a red-green government with modern social democrats, who have been talking about the green folk house for a long time, must dare to take this ball. I don't know what's stopping you. The Swedish Trade and Industry Transport Council, which gathers all of Sweden's major companies, prays and asks for more rail services throughout Sweden. They want to strengthen where there is a need for double tracks, they want to remove waists where it is difficult to reach and they want to increase maintenance – in order to be able to transport more large-scale by rail. It is not the case that the roads disappear for it, but resources are being used in such a way that we can build the whole economy in a sustainable way within the framework of nature and maintain a good welfare – instead of doing the opposite, that is, bet wrong now and get dressed in sackcloth and ashes then.
i-53799cdb94780c05-728	Madam President, I would like I wanted to spend a minute commenting on Emma Wallrup's first speech. The socio-economic analyses are one of the bases used for prioritising different infrastructure projects to be included in the national plan. Less than six months ago, the SNS presented a report that was extremely critical of the fact that previous governments have not prioritised according to the socio-economic calculations. That is to say, a decision has been made to implement objects that have had lower socio-economic values than other objects. So going blindly on the socio-economic analyses is probably a truth with modification. I also think it is right that politicians should have the opportunity to make other assessments, because there are things that cannot easily be captured by a never-so-so-so-so-sophisticated model of calculation. It is therefore necessary to make a political assessment in addition to the socio-economic analyses and other bases on which decisions will eventually be taken. I pointed out in my speech earlier that this government has high ambitions in terms of the climate in general and that the transport sector should also contribute to society as a whole achieving the climate policy objectives. We dare, we want and we will. However, it is not certain that we are doing exactly what Emma Wallrup wants, because sustainability is defined not only in relation to the transport sector but in general by a social development that meets the needs of this generation in a way that does not detract from the opportunities of future generations to meet their needs. This applies both ecologically and socially, but also economically. Such a massive expansion of the railways that would be required to replace the car with rail in large parts of the country is simply not sustainable, perhaps not ecologically and definitely not economically. That is why we need to find other instruments which, with the greatest precision and efficiency possible, will enable us to achieve our climate objectives and that the transport sector will contribute to this.
i-53799cdb94780c05-735	Madam President, I would like When it comes to socio-economic analyses, it is important to realise that we have a limited money bag, and Anna Johansson often highlights this in the debates. Then I think you have to be a little realistic. What happens if we make calculations that constantly point to short-term profits? It is clear that traffic planners and Trafikverket will choose those objects first, because they have so limited resources that they can even only strengthen maintenance around Stockholm when increasing maintenance. It is a constant problem that we do not have time to invest in the needs we have because there is too little money. It's important to realize and admit it. Therefore, it is better to have socio-economic analyses that take in the long-term perspectives right from the start. All parties in the Transport Committee signed up to a section where we did a study that we want to see that the long-term perspective is strengthened in the socio-economic analyses. There is therefore broad support throughout the Committee on Transport and Tourism for this, because everyone realises that it is so important. Anna Johansson refers to a study by SNS. I would just like to point out that it is a bourgeois association of study that has a bourgeois fundamental view. There may be a number of reasons why we do not want to invest in high-speed rail, such as fear of tax increases and so on. But I don't think the SNS is a reliable source. Other bodies, such as the FFF investigation, IVL and other heavy researchers, logically point out that we need to invest more in the railways.
i-53799cdb94780c05-739	Madam President, I would like As I said in a previous post, Trafikverket has a mission to refine and develop its analytical methods, also so that it captures climate issues and life cycle costs, i.e. that it calculates, for example, climate impact throughout the lifetime of the object and what effects you have, both economic and social, in so far as it can be calculated, as well as ecological. So there is already exactly what Emma Wallrup is asking for. We have invested 1.34 billion more each year in railway maintenance. This is an extremely important effort. If we focus only on building rail where there is no rail at present, the system will not work at all if we do not at the same time make sure that the existing rail system is upgraded. Most of the tracks are already built, and they must work reliably. It is also about the need for the new investments that we will make on the railways to be able to connect with the existing system. Otherwise, the new will not be functional. It is interesting that Emma Wallrup has no interest whatsoever in looking at what technology development and what opportunities for efficiency are available, for example through heavier transport, more efficient logistics planning and so on that reduces transport needs. I believe that such measures will be at least as important. We need to take action in many different areas. Infrastructure planning is not, thankfully, the only instrument we have.
i-53799cdb94780c05-743	Madam President, I would like Saila Quicklund has asked me how I intend to work to ensure that Jämtland County has a well-functioning train traffic that enables good conditions for both work commuting and tourism. The issue is caused by SJ AB's announcement that the company intends to pull in the night trains to Jämtland during the off-season. Well-functioning rail links are, in my view, an important prerequisite for both work commuting and leisure travel, and therefore also for regional and national growth. It is therefore gratifying that rail travel in Sweden has increased significantly overall in recent years. This increase has taken place within the framework of a model whereby decisions on the train traffic to be offered to passengers are taken by railway undertakings on a commercial basis and the competent public transport authorities taking their decisions on the basis of other types of considerations. The 21 regional public transport authorities are responsible for the regional public transport supply in accordance with the rules of the Public Transport Act and in relation to policy objectives decided at regional level. These authorities are thus responsible for regional and local work commuting. As regards interregional public transport, the Finnish Transport Agency has been tasked with promoting, on behalf of the State, basic accessibility of interregional public transport. In the context of this task, it shall, inter alia, enter into and be responsible for the State's agreements on transport policy-driven interregional public transport which are not maintained under other arrangements and where there are no conditions for commercial operation. In this connection, the Finnish Transport Agency may decide to sign a contract for new traffic and the conditions for this service. The Agency may also take a decision to terminate or change the terms and conditions of traffic under contract with the Authority. In the public transport contracts for which the Agency is responsible, the Finnish Transport Agency will also take into account the need for functional labour market regions. The government would like more people to travel by train. It is therefore important to improve the conditions for rail transport. However, night rail traffic to Jämtland has for a long time been running with large deficits, and any influx of more passengers that can lead to a market that can carry traffic on a commercial basis in the long term does not seem to be in sight at present. SJ AB operates in full competition with other railway and transport companies. If no other railway undertaking establishes itself on the relevant market, the Finnish Transport Agency shall instead carry out a transport policy based assessment of whether the authority should take measures to improve Jämtland's supply of interregional public transport services. In this assessment, the deficiencies in the interregional transport supply in Jämtland are balanced against deficiencies in other parts of the country in order to achieve the greatest possible socio-economic efficiency with possible measures. I assume that the Swedish Transport Administration will make such an assessment correctly.
i-53799cdb94780c05-748	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his answer. That is a relatively unclear answer, and I therefore appreciate that we can have this interpellation debate and clarify what we mean from both sides.
i-53799cdb94780c05-750	Of course, this arouses enormous emotions in Jämtland and Härjedalen. 35 000 have signed the Swedish Tourist Association's protest lists against the cancellation of the night trains. Trains are essential for the tourism industry, for business and for private travellers. Entire 1 000 people commute to Stockholm, and 250 to Västra Götaland. They are, of course, completely dependent on well-functioning communications. Worse communications make work commuting difficult and impossible. Moving away from the region may be one of the consequences, and we need more inhabitants, not fewer. Let me say something briefly about the conditions and what it looks like in Jämtland and Härjedalen. I know the minister comes from Gothenburg. We are eight municipalities on 12 per cent of Sweden's surface area. We are 127 000 inhabitants, and there will be many more during periods of high tourist pressure. We have 7 000 entrepreneurs, most of them small, in areas such as tourism, outdoor products, forests, wood, food, IT and workshop. Tourism has a turnover of nearly SEK 4 billion. It gives a tremendous amount of tax money to the state. We have Mid Sweden University with campuses in Östersund and 7,000 students. Many also study at a distance, which makes good communication important. In 2019 we have two World Championships in Jämtland, the World Championships and the Alpine World Championships, which also means that we need well-functioning infrastructure. Jämtland with Härjedalen has a strong profile as a small country. We have strong entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, especially female entrepreneurship. In Åre municipality, female entrepreneurship increases most in the country. We have a broad manufacturing industry in the international market and a strong forest industry, which depends on good communications and transport modes. We have a tourism industry that is a basic industry and growth engine, and the number from future visits is increasing. We had a 10% increase in the number of guest nights, which is mostly in the whole country. There is a huge potential to increase this further, and then availability is directly crucial for an even greater expansion. The government is responsible for the fact that we have well-functioning communications throughout the country. In a situation where SJ thinks the economy is worse, the government will charge SEK 1.9 billion from SJ AB. Can the Minister say that this withdrawal of 1.9 billion does not affect SJ traffic?
i-53799cdb94780c05-758	Madam President, I would like As far as I understand it, the dividend involved has nothing to do with SJ's results, i.e. how SJ conducts its activities. It is quite other so-called items affecting comparability that make it possible to make such a dividend. However, this issue is not on my table, because it is a matter of government governance of companies. In this type of question, Minister Damberg is a suitable person to intervene. It is interesting to note that I quite often get interpellations and questions in the media from bourgeois politicians who have views on how SJ or others operate. It is interesting for the reason that it was the bourgeois government that liberalised the railway market in Sweden and said that the market would manage this: If we just let loose the market and let all the actors who want to drive trains and apply for train paths, this will work out by itself. But it turned out that the market does not solve all the problems. There are areas in Sweden where it is not commercially interesting to drive trains or other traffic. Sometimes there are strong requests for traffic on a certain distance, but the base is too small. The Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for buying up traffic that is necessary for society. It becomes unreasonable to have a market based on anyone being allowed to drive the profitable traffic and apply for train paths while the state pays for all non-profitable traffic. This would in practice mean a direct transfer of money that could be used for other purposes by us taxpayers to railway undertakings operating profitable services. If you want a market solution, you have to accept the bad pages with the same, because the market is very good at meeting the demand but awfully bad at meeting needs. We see this in a number of different areas. When it comes to night rail traffic to Jämtland, I have understood that SJ has carried out and will work together with Jämtland County and the tourist organisations to increase interest in this traffic. It would have been good if those who have signed the protest lists also bought tickets for the train. It is not protest lists that allow SJ to operate a distance or have certain departures, but it is the number of travelers. Therefore, it is good to increase interest in buying tickets and travelling by train. It's not enough to think it's important. You have to show it, too.
i-53799cdb94780c05-764	Madam President, I would like That the base is too small I will come back to later. When it comes to increasing interest, there must be conditions for this. I'll get to that. Of course, a withdrawal of 1.9 billion infrastructure has an impact, and the Minister has the main responsibility for communication. We cannot place the blame on Damberg. It is clear that it affects when the withdrawal is made from SJ AB. Let's focus on the present. I want to describe the conditions in the county a little more. Tourism is a basic industry that broadens its season. Earlier, the winter season was strong, but now we see that the summer season is growing. I have been visited by a number of ambassadors who have said that we have great potential thanks to the clean air, calmness and so on and that this market will grow ever stronger in the future because it is a scarce commodity. But then there must be conditions. It is about jobs, growth and development for the whole country, not least in Norrland, where it is an important basic industry. It should also be possible to travel climate smart. In the previous interpellation debate, the Minister spoke about the importance of travelling climate-smart. Since the government often points out, it is strange that trains are being pulled down, which makes people take cars or flights instead. Night trains are an incredibly important traffic supply from an accessibility perspective. I return again to the fact that all of Sweden will live. Huge efforts are being made in southern Sweden. What surprises me is the absence of impact assessments. Of course it's a hard blow to the county, but we haven't seen any analysis, which surprises me. It's a pattern in the government. We're not going to go into regional reform and Greater Northernland, but it's the same thing there. We constantly remind the government that we need to have impact assessments on the reforms that you now want to impose. This is worth highlighting in this context. There have been recurring criticisms from customers who are not satisfied and who have not been able to go. It has been difficult to book the night trains. It is often fully booked even though there are empty wagons. The wagons are dirty, there is no restaurant car and no internet connection, booking times are not adapted to connection trains and so on. It gives SJ a bad image. Ski guests can book accommodation but have to wait for the transport part when it comes to trains. It rhymes badly. I have three questions for the Minister. SJ is reported to invest in night trains between Stockholm and Oslo. We know that there is a shortage of night trains, and we need first-class cars in particular. Are Jämtland and Härjedalen victims in favour of Oslo and Stockholm? The second question concerns the profit draw of 1.9 billion. Of course, they affect communications. Are Jämtland and Härjedalen also sacrificed to them? The third question concerns high-speed trains. According to estimates, they will cost 320 billion. Yet it is believed that the money will never be enough. Let's see what the sum lands on. Of course, this takes resources from northern Sweden. It is quite clear that the investments are located in southern Sweden. Sacrifice of Jämtland and Härjedalen? When I say Jämtland and Härjedalen, I also mean Norrland in its entirety. We also know that the train routes to Kiruna will soon end up under the bridge. The Minister will be happy to answer.
i-53799cdb94780c05-777	Madam President, I would like I'm going to try a public education effort from the speaker's chair. SJ AB pays nothing to infrastructure in the sense that SJ would be responsible for infrastructure. That's what Trafikverket does. SJ AB pays a fee to the Swedish Transport Administration to operate on the tracks, but that fee is set equally for all operators. It's not that if you don't withdraw money from SJ, there'll be more money for the tracks. Perhaps it is the opposite because the money that is distributed from SJ AB, which is an independent company, becomes money in the state budget that can be used for example for expansion and infrastructure. That connection does not exist, and to the extent that there is, it is rather the reverse. The second public education effort is that no political decisions are made, as I believe the interpeller is aware, in Sweden about rail transport. There is a liberalised market in which anyone who wants to drive trains and who makes an assessment of the profitability of running trains can apply for a train path and get started. This means that the government does not control for example SJ by telling them exactly where to drive, what tours to drive, what the service to provide should look like. It's a responsibility for that company management. With regard to the major horizontal issues, it is a responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs who has corporate governance on his table. Here, apparently even from the Moderates, there is still a vision that SJ is part of the state in the sense that it is a politically governed organization out in the smallest detail. It's not. We could target any train company if we want traffic on the route. I can agree with all the needs outlined in the discussion. It is extremely important to have working transport solutions throughout the country. It is important to ensure that different places of visitors and tourist initiatives are supplied with traffic solutions that make it possible to get to that destination. As little as the government decides which tourist buses to drive to different tourist destinations, the government decides which tours SJ should drive. If we wanted such a system, we would not have liberalised the railways and turned them into a market. Then one would have retained a system where one makes a decision that SJ has a responsibility to drive on certain routes to meet a societal need. There is no such legislation today. There may be comments on this, but responsibility should be taken for the fundamental political decisions taken even when the effects of them come. Regarding the requirement for an impact assessment, perhaps one should have done so before taking this kind of decision.
i-53799cdb94780c05-784	Madam President, I would like It is a common scenario for the Minister of Infrastructure to discharge responsibility. However, we shall remind the Minister that she has, through her Ministry of Infrastructure, an overall responsibility for the good functioning of Swedish communications and for the whole of Sweden to live and have the same conditions. The Minister often places responsibility on the Swedish Transport Administration and SJ. Of course, a withdrawal of 1.9 billion also affects other investments. If SJ continues on the track and only cuts in costs, it is a matter of time before SJ has dismantled its entire presence in Jämtland and Härjedalen and in Norrland in its entirety. The exception is that we postpone the residents of big cities to the mountains for a few weeks a year. The information SJ has given has already had a negative impact. People no longer believe that trains can be taken to Norrland or Jämtland and Härjedalen. They are also affected by negative writings. But it doesn't have to get that bad. The level and others can be attracted back to the trains via reliability, functioning booking systems, functioning connection times to other public transport, internet connection, a good image, clean wagons and not least that SJ and the government listen to the customer. This has certainly not been the case so far. Of course, the government has the main responsibility – I want to get back to that – for the country's communications. I know we don't control detail. This is an overall responsibility that the Minister must assume. All of Sweden will live. Right now, the government is acting on many different levels in the opposite direction. That worries me, and it also worries many others. Thank you for the debate so far. We will return to the same question.
i-53799cdb94780c05-789	Madam President, I would like I'm terribly sorry, but I'm not actually responsible for how SJ chooses to operate and not operate. I am responsible for the state infrastructure and a certain responsibility for the provision of funds so that the Swedish Transport Administration can deal with traffic that is considered necessary but not commercially feasible. The Finnish Transport Administration has a mission to act on this type of traffic. So do you. There are many different examples where the Swedish Transport Administration makes procurements. SJ is not a company that is governed in its business model or in its affairs directly by political decisions. It is amazing that a Member of the Swedish Parliament does not know it or does not want to know it. The choice was to liberalise the market for trains. This means that SJ, MTR, Blue Train or any other operator choose which routes they want to operate from where they think they can make money. It's a market. When that market release then has consequences in opting out routes that are not commercially viable, you go to the Minister and say that I will solve the problem. That responsibility took the former government away from the government and from the parliament. You might think it was wrong, but that's how it was. It is important to now work together between different actors to meet the needs that have been raised. There you get to contact SJ, who conducts their traffic on a commercial basis just like any other company does. This is a market. If an assessment is made that it is such a public transport service that Trafikverket will purchase it, Trafikverket will start such a procurement. It is not an issue that is being dealt with in this interpellation debate.
i-53799cdb94780c05-793	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked me whether the government sees that, for financial reasons, there is a risk that the implementation of the Western Swedish package will be impeded or that sub-projects will be reconsidered. The Swedish Transport Administration has increased its borrowings in line with the 2016 regulatory letter to finance, among other things, investments in the Western Swedish package, which may lead to marginally increased interest costs. The size of any additional costs is currently difficult to predict as this will depend on future interest rate developments. The increase in borrowings in 2016 leads to marginally increased interest costs. The interest rate has been lower for a period, which affects the amount of possible costs incurred in taking up these loans. Given today's assessments, any additional costs will not be charged to the traffic tax appropriations but will be financed from 1:1 Development of the State's transport infrastructure. The measure of temporary use of loan financing to finance investments will not delay work on the infrastructure projects concerned, nor will it affect the State's commitments. The revenue from the congestion tax in Gothenburg may, according to the purpose of the grant, only be used for expenditure on investments in public transport, rail and road in Gothenburg. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the increased loan financing in the near future will have no impact on future congestion tax charges in Gothenburg – this because additional costs will be financed from another grant and not from future congestion tax revenues.
i-53799cdb94780c05-797	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason I have written this interpellation is that there has been a discussion and debate especially in West Sweden, which is affected by this package, about the funding when the government has now ordered the Swedish Transport Administration to borrow from the Swedish National Debt Office at a preferential rate to finance 2016 investments in the Western Swedish package. Instead, the money from paid congestion taxes was supposed to be used directly. This is an arrangement that requires a low and stable level of interest rates, and there is actually no one who can guarantee this over time. We are living today in a world where there is negative interest; in fact, you would pay to have the money deposited with banks. The National Debt Office should also be able to reason that way. It is therefore a very special financial situation in which Sweden finds itself. Here the government has obviously hit the budget ceiling. There are circumstances that explain why this has happened, and so some maneuvers need to be made. I think it is important that we in the Swedish Parliament discuss this. I also think it is important for us in Parliament to know the Minister's and the Government's position on how to deal with this. This raises great concern, not least among the western Swedes and Gothenburgers who are living in the midst of a debate on the Western Swedish package. You can have whatever opinions you want about the package and parts of it. There is, of course, a train tunnel under Gothenburg that has been discussed in some way. But that is not what this is about; it is about the fact that it is a gigantic project that must not be subject to fragile funding. That is why I have put this interpellation to the Government. I have received an answer here that is almost surprisingly clear. But it is good to have clear answers. I like it. The answer says that this will not affect funding, nor will it jeopardise the implementation of the Western Swedish package. In this context, however, I would like to ask a question of control: this manoeuvre is carried out in a low-interest situation. What happens on the day the interest goes up? Is the Minister and the Government as clear as that this manoeuvre, which could be termed a trifle, is so watertight that it will not jeopardise anything about the implementation of the Western Swedish package?
i-53799cdb94780c05-804	Madam President, I would like The answer is not only clear, but it has also been repeated in a number of previous interpellation debates, in a number of interviews and in other contexts where we have been very clear, precisely because there has been a concern. Then, as a Member of Parliament or in some other function, you can choose to let that worry be resolved because there is no reason for it, or you can choose to try to revive it from time to time. The answer is clear because we are clear that this is a temporary measure, which is that, in order to avoid dramatic cuts, for example, in welfare, security systems or elsewhere, in a situation where we have significantly increased costs in certain areas, we choose to make measures that have as little negative impact as possible on the tasks that the state has undertaken. This is one such example where we see that we have the opportunity to post the assignment at Trafikverket instead of the state borrowing and using that money itself. It has no consequence on the implementation of the Western Swedish package, because we have said that if there is an increase in interest costs in the future, they will be covered by other appropriations. That is a very clear message. I can give it again and again. Nor does this in any way delay or jeopardise the implementation of the various elements of the package. That planning continues as planned, and the planning is solid. There is no reason whatsoever to worry that funding will not remain.
i-53799cdb94780c05-808	Madam President, I would like This is the case when it comes to this discussion that is taking place in the social debate that there is a reason why one feels a certain amount of concern. With Akademiska Hus it has been the case that the dividend has been used for the state budget. The use of congestion tax as a budgetary regulator is, in this context, something that should not happen and which under normal circumstances would not have been the norm. I would really like to ask whether the Minister thinks it is ethical to do these laboratory work on the matter, not least in view of the heated discussion on the issue of congestion tax and parts of the implementation of the Western Swedish package. Is it ethical to do this?
i-53799cdb94780c05-810	Madam President, I would like Given the situation in which we find ourselves and given the options that we would otherwise have had to take a stand on, I think this is a good way to deal with the situation that has arisen. We take a measure that allows us to follow the guidelines that exist regarding budget management and that do not have serious consequences for our ability to conduct a good business and stand for the commitments that the state has towards individuals, towards municipalities and county councils and so on. This does not jeopardise the implementation of the package, nor is it that the amount set aside is less than it would have been if it had been taken into the State account. The concerns that exist are possibly excited for reasons other than concern for the Western Swedish package. We have been extremely clear that the consequences that could result from increased interest costs will be fully financed by the State, in accordance with the commitment that the State has towards the municipality of Gothenburg and the other contracting parties.
i-53799cdb94780c05-812	Madam President, I would like One reason why I raise the question is the rather recently launched debate. There are many who are in touch and anxious and want to discuss. The Finnish Transport Agency is a government work. The question then is: is their expenditure not part of the total expenditure of the state? Could it really be that the expenditure ceiling is so laxly formulated that it does not include expenditure in government works? Differentiating is a word you could use in this context. In fact, my aim with this interpellation is to get the clear answer from the Minister that it will not affect implementation, that it will not risk part of this not being implemented and that it will not be more expensive. I am grateful for that answer. Should the reality be any other, which I certainly do not hope will happen, I will have to come back to it.
i-53799cdb94780c05-816	Madam President, I would like Since Hans Rothenberg has a great interest in traffic issues in general and in particular those that affect Gothenburg, I assume that he has taken note of both my previous interpellation responses and the, quite a few at this time, interviews in the media where I have given this very clear message. I hope that, with this answer from me today, Mr Rothenberg will feel confident in giving the message when worried citizens are calling that there is no reason to be worried. The funding is fixed. It is technically arranged in a slightly different way, but its implementation is proceeding exactly as planned. I hope that together we can ensure that we have a positive and forward-looking discussion on all the great opportunities that open up with the implementation of this package.
