i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-0	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me what measures in the field of energy I intend to take to ensure that the conditions for positive economic development continue to be good in northern Sweden. The starting point for Edvard Riedl's question is very important, namely the competitiveness of industry and society's need for a secure and sustainable electricity supply. It was precisely against this background that the government set up an Energy Commission in March 2015. In the Commission's directive, the Government points out that Sweden's electricity supply faces major challenges, primarily in relation to electricity supply in southern Sweden. We rely on a secure and sufficient energy supply that can contribute to social and economic development, which maintains and strengthens the international competitiveness of the business community, while at the same time creating opportunities to meet Sweden's high environmental and climate policy ambitions in a cost-effective manner. The government parties, together with the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, have now concluded a framework agreement on Swedish energy policy. The agreement creates long-term clarity for market players and contributes to new jobs and investments in Sweden. With the framework agreement, Sweden continues to have good conditions for competitive and reliable energy supply. Already today, in a normal year, Norrland has an electricity surplus of about 35 terawatt hours. From this point of view, the region is well placed for positive economic development.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-4	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether, in my opinion, there are sufficient funds allocated to the Government's budget to deliver the systems contained in the defence agreement within the agreed time limit. Mikael Oscarsson believes that a number of systems have been postponed by FMV or discontinued. He has asked what effect this has, in my opinion, on the Swedish Armed Forces' actual level of ambition that the government is now establishing. Finally, he has asked me whether, in my opinion, there is a discrepancy between the Ministry of Defence's analysis of the financial situation within the Swedish Armed Forces and the actual outcome of the ambition level set out in the agreement. The single most important thing during the defence orientation period 2016 to 2020 is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. The defence decision means that the overall defence economy will be strengthened by another SEK 10,2 billion during the focus period, in addition to previously decided additions. In the defence policy orientation bill, the government emphasises that material supply is a means to support the military units in building their operational capabilities and to enable the military units to carry out their tasks in peace and in case of increased preparedness. At the same time, there are technical and economic risks in the supply of materials, as they involve the acquisition of complex systems in multi-annual processes and considerable economic values. The government and the responsible authorities are continuously working to manage these risks. The Swedish Armed Forces have reported in their budget base for 2017 that there are risks in the material supply. The Swedish Armed Forces have also developed the presentation of material projects, in accordance with the investment planning investigation's proposal. The basics are now being analysed within the Government Office. The Government will take a position on the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base in connection with the budget proposal for 2017. The Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats agree and have a common responsibility to care for the defence agreement. In order to consult on matters relating to it, the five parties supporting the agreement meet regularly in the Defence Group. If the conditions for the agreement are affected by, for example, costs or delays, the government will discuss the issue in the defence group. The ambition of the agreement is solid. The government intends to complete the defense agreement.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-9	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. We met with a defense settlement in the Riksdag. Overshadowing there was the increasingly tougher security policy situation in which Sweden finds itself. It was then identified a range of equipment systems to emerge during the defence period. The new artillery, Archer, is to be procured. Trucks are also to be procured, and it has been shown that they are late. Tanks 122 and 90 will be renovated. According to the Swedish Armed Forces' documentation from 16 December, five guard boats, including anti-submarine grenade launchers, are to be acquired. A new mid-range anti-aircraft system shall be procured for one of the two anti-aircraft battalions during the period. Two wooden boats of Stockholm class, a new target robot and a new light torpedo are to be acquired. It is about maintaining and a mid-term modification of submarines in Gotland class and submarine of Södermanland class. Furthermore, of course, it is about the construction of the two submarines and the introduction of JAS 39 Gripen. In view of the addition of 10.2 billion, the mechanised battalions would be added to a new combat vehicle-borne grenade launcher system during the period. It was also a matter of adding additional bridge-band cars, motorized shooting battalions, grenade launchers, two Gävle class corvettes, six guarding boats, new underwater sensors and making another four helicopter 14 sea operations during the period. It has thus been agreed that a wide range of equipment systems should be procured. At the same time, there are signals that this will be more expensive, as evidence from the Swedish Armed Forces has been submitted to demonstrate the cost of certain systems. The Defence Committee visited the Swedish Armed Forces headquarters some time ago. The Swedish Armed Forces were then more precise than they have been before and said that purchasing power has deteriorated so significantly that half of the addition will be eaten up during the defence period. The question is, is there enough money? Will the mechanised battalions, for example, be added to a mortar system during the period?
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-14	Madam President, I would like I have said in my introductory speech that if the conditions for the agreement are affected by, for example, costs or delays, the Council will discuss this in the defence group. Let me emphasise this one more time so that it is clear that it is said and that it is the way the government intends to work on this. Let me also remind you that I already indicated at the Sälen Conference that we can certainly expect discussions on both costs and delays. It's not something I'm surprised by, or I'm having an acute panic about. When you get this type of indication, you have to ensure that the data is processed and that the responsible authorities have to work through it as far as they can to see what other ways of solving a problem exist. It may also be that some have been too alarmist. The 10,2 billion in the agreement is essentially about the war ability of the military units to be further increased by all units carrying out war units exercises during the focus period. We agreed that the army forces should be expanded with a motorized shooting battalion while maintaining the light shooting battalion but reorganized in order to be able to be air-tranportable. We also agreed that the Mek Battalions will be added to a new combat vehicle-borne shell-throwing system, that further oband wagons will be added and that the motorized shuttle battalions will be added to the armored defence capabilities. Furthermore, we agreed that a combat group on Gotland will be organized with a Mekkompanie and a tank company as of 2018 and that the training group on Gotland will be strengthened to allow for increased training and training activities. We also agreed that the Home Guard and the national forces should be added to grenade launchers and battalion command and that additional personal equipment and ammunition should be acquired. In addition, two corvettes of Gävle class will be modified so that they are operationally and technically relevant to the mid-2020s, two additional guarding boats modified to maintain four guard boats as buoys and new submersibles will be procured. The availability of the tactical transport flight shall be increased and the ability to deploy the air forces within and between bases shall also be increased. Finally, intelligence should be strengthened. We are working on all these points. The Swedish Armed Forces and FMV do so. There is a continuous dialogue on any problems that may arise. Some orders have already been made, and in others orders are being worked on. The problems that have arisen are being addressed. The agreement entered into force on 1 January, and now we are at the end of June. It has been a little too short a time to be able to say that the measures taken are inadequate or to say, with drama in the voice, that what we have agreed on is not being delivered. We are in a major transformation process by the entire Swedish Armed Forces. It has now begun in earnest, and we will have problems to deal with. We have to graze them gradually, and so do we. Mikael Oscarsson, who is part of the defence group, can be absolutely sure that if there is a cost or delay, we will address it in the working group.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-29	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The defense arrangement was an important trend break. It is the first time since the Cold War that the Swedish Armed Forces receive more money. So far, so good. But now there are reports of costs, and just as the Secretary of Defense said, it has not even been a year of the total of five years of the period. It makes me even more worried that these signals are coming this early. The Swedish Armed Forces say that purchasing power consumes half of the 10.2 billion supplement during the period – not far away but during the period. It has also been indicated that some of the defence systems are becoming more expensive. I am pleased with the Minister for Defence's clarity that this is to be discussed in the Defence Group, but I think we also need to have a public discussion on this, at least in some parts. Is there a risk that any of these projects may be ironed on their feet? As I and the Christian Democrats see it, every part of the deal must be done, not least in view of the fact that the security policy situation has not improved since the decision was taken. We'd rather see a tougher situation. It is therefore important that no part of the settlement is postponed. Instead, money must be added. I was at the Air Combat School last week and got a report that there is an urgent need to add money to the ASC 890, Sweden's airborne combat control and air surveillance platform, to extend my life span. If we don't, it'll fall for the age line during the period. If I remember correctly, this did not come up during the defence negotiations, but it is a need. We need to discuss both publicly and internally how we can ensure this. It is absolutely crucial for Sweden that this airborne combat control and air surveillance platform works. If this number of millions, for which it is not yet planned, does not arrive, it can have very negative consequences. Do the reports from the Swedish Armed Forces suggest that half of them are eaten up by the impaired monetary value of the Minister for Defence to make some direct changes so that the money is sufficient for all the decisions to be made?
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-37	Madam President, I would like Let me also get involved in this interesting exchange of views. I joined the Moderates in the defence negotiations that formed the basis for the defence settlement, which in turn formed the basis for the directional decision valid from 1 January 2016. What Mikael Oscarsson and Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist express is important. We five parties have a joint responsibility to uphold the agreement. As politicians, we also have a responsibility to protect the country. We should have both of these things in front of us. These are urgent issues that are highlighted. Just as Peter Hultqvist says in his response to Mikael Oscarsson, there are warning signs from FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces about any costs. Then it is important that we parties that are part of the settlement and have this group that meets repeatedly know things before and not after. The Minister for Defence says that the evidence is analysed within the Government Office and that the Government will take a position on the Swedish Armed Forces' proposal in the 2017 budget decision. As a moderate representative of the group, I would like to stress that it is important that we, as opposition representatives, learn as soon as possible when the government begins to feel that there are figures that hold, as these figures will form the basis of our draft budgets, not only for 2017 but also for the coming years. As I see it, at least on the basis of the talks we have had with the Minister for Defence in the group and also in this House, there are roughly three ways of dealing with the possible costs. The first is that you see if there is other equivalent material that you can have instead of what you had planned, the second is that you think about the number – quantity or quality – and the third is that you spend more money. I want to clarify the starting point of the Moderates. We do not think that we should have reduced ambitions. The situation we are in is serious, as Mikael Oscarsson stressed. This makes the option of reducing ambition the worst. Therefore, it is important for us in the opposition that the government, when it feels that it has figures that hold and it has been calculated on FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces, transmits the figures further in the pre-response group we have. As the Minister for Defence stressed, our decision to focus and the defence agreement we have many parts, of which material is one. It is important to emphasise the increased exercise activities and the higher ambitions we have in this area. It's about incident preparedness, submarine hunting, the investment in Gotland and air base. In all of this, there is also material as a component – we cannot get away from that. The Secretary of Defense can, if he wants, shed some light on this. There are three ways to tackle it. The first is other materials, which have a similar effect, the second is to reduce quality or quantity, and the third is to provide resources. As a member of the defence group led by Peter Hultqvist, I would like to stress that I assume that we will find out things before, not after.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-46	Madam President, I would like There is no reason to suspect that we would not inform when we have something to inform about. However, we do not inform when we do not have the facts to put on the table. Everyone must have some respect for the fact that you have to process materials and analyse them before you are too quick with conclusions. We must also respect the possibility of influencing cost figures. I often feel that there is a lack of political reasoning that politicians, especially in opposition, sometimes tend to be a little quick to print cheques that cover any forecasts. A more reasonable approach is to try to process any forecasts and potentially threatening cost figures and actively contribute to bring down the cost picture and use some creativity to reach the goal. Let us be clear that we are dealing with public funds. We cannot have it on any kind of current account and as soon as it is flagged for a cost increase be prepared to buy in and accept this as a fact. It is not the same thing that I do not understand the problem of this kind of handling. That is why, as early as the Sälen Conference, I flagged for seeing risks. At that time not many were interested in commenting. Now, on the other hand, there are a lot of discussions, and the checkbook is almost there before we know what the real costs are. From our side, we must try to keep a little in the money and have an attitude where we have a certain cold when we look at it. We must ensure that alternative solutions are really worked out and that it is assessed whether there are real cost figures that have now emerged. This is a recurring discussion with the Swedish Armed Forces and FMV. It asks what direct action is to be taken now, but there are no measures that can be taken to resolve this in one day. That kind of speed is almost to be regarded as slightly irresponsible or based on a lack of understanding of the state of things. This requires taking some time to arrive at sustainability as far as possible. I take all parts of this very seriously. I do not shy away from the fact that there are cost-suspension and time-shift aspects, but I am also not shy of having to process the cost figures that come up and also do a serious job with them. Otherwise, I do not think that political responsibility is being taken on board. I am not prepared to be there with the checkbook in the first place, but we will have to take some time to do this. I think that's the wisest way to deal with it. We will do a full lighting of this in connection with the budget proposal for 2017. That's about the way a government works. We have not come up with any new way of dealing with this type of issue, but it is this approach that I think is common here. As far as the points I read out and the 10.2 billion we agree on are concerned, there is no area where I see that we are not working or have started processes. We're working on the whole field. It is no problem for me to be very clear: of course we will discuss all this in the defence group. It is almost strange that the question should be asked. There is no ambition in us to hide anything in this.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-55	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of the year, army chief Anders Brännström was very clear. He said that Sweden could be at war in a few years. It is certainly not something we hope will happen, but Sweden can be attacked. Then it is important to ensure that our armed forces function and, at worst, can face such a threat as the former army commander—he has just quit—speaked. It is therefore important that each part of the settlement can be implemented. The background to this interpellation debate is the information we have received from the Swedish Armed Forces, namely that purchasing power is halved. Half of the budget of 10.2 billion is lost in the loss of purchasing power. In addition, data have come to light suggesting that several systems of equipment are significantly more expensive. Then, of course, all defence-interested citizens who have heard of this are wondering what the consequences are and whether money will be added. Overall, the situation in the outside world is far too serious for us to allow necessary and already decided measures to be delayed. If new political positions are needed to implement the defence agreement, we Christian Democrats are prepared to discuss it. A reduction in ambition cannot be an option given the international situation we have. It is therefore important that this issue can be discussed both in public and in the defence group so that each part of the defence settlement can be realised within the time set.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-59	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Defence stated that a great deal can be promised in opposition. He had eight years to practice that art. I myself have only had two years, but I hope it won't be much longer. One thing I shall nevertheless commend to the Minister for Defence, Madam President, and that is that he repeatedly honours the agreement. I think that's good. What made me a little worried, however, was that he said they would come back in the budget bill, because that is what governments usually do. But what distinguishes this area from others is that there is a defence agreement as a basis. That is why I think it is important, and I would like to emphasise it. I hope the Secretary of Defense keeps his word. I assume that as soon as possible and when it feels that it has a solid basis based on the Swedish Armed Forces' and FMV's calculations, the government will return with them to us defence agreement parties and to the defence group. We must take a position on this in our budget proposals for 2017 and in the coming years. Madam President, I would like As I have pointed out, there are actually three routes, if there is a risk of cost increases. One is to try to see if there are other equivalent materials. The second is that you look at quantity or quality. The third is that you see if you have to spend more money. I can't stand to print checks right now. But I do not shy away from the problems and challenges that we have. Then I can only honestly, Madam President, declare what is the ambition of the Moderates, as one of the five parties to the agreement. No, I do not want us to lower the ambitions of the agreement that we have, in the agreement that forms the basis for the directional decision that exists. I assume that once the government has figures to present to the parties to the agreement, we will get them. And I assume that will happen before the government presents its budget proposal.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-66	Madam President, I would like First of all, you did not leave behind such a simple legacy in the previous government. You have left behind a defence force where there is a great deal to be desired. What exactly were you doing during the eight years, since the eight years came up now? There's a lot we're gonna have to deal with. I am in itself pleased that you have been involved in making this agreement and that we have the common platform. However, even once invoking statements that might lead people to think that the government would not be prepared to stand for the agreement, I do not feel fair. We now have the ultimate responsibility. Then I cannot stand here half-and-half promising that we will now deal with this issue one way or the other, when we have not even gone through exactly what strategy we are going to have on a point-by-point basis. It is better to speak when you have something to say than just stand and have general word cascades that may populistically go home in the short term but that can be quite ineffective and can also prove to be wrong in a longer perspective. I intend to be completely transparent with regard to all the problems, and I will try to be extremely constructive in the way in which this is resolved. But I do not want to hear any hints that we would somehow be weighted in terms of the agreement, because it is not on the map. On formal and informal discussion: the Defence Group is a forum for informal exchange of information. We try there to deliver what is to be delivered. But we also have the respect for the defence group that we deliver what can be said and does not speculate. Spectacular speculation can lead to a great deal of error. It's better to talk when you have something to say seriously. In a formal sense, this must be dealt with in the budget proposal. That's how it's done.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-73	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked the Prime Minister why efforts to develop a national security strategy have been delayed, why the Prime Minister and the Government have rejected the Moderates' request to give the Defence Committee a new and broader mandate, and how the Prime Minister and the Government intend to broadly support a national security strategy. The interpellation has been handed over to me. I will begin by answering the two questions about a national security strategy. The development of a draft security strategy contains several elements that must be allowed to take their time. Earlier this spring, consultations have been held with independent researchers in the field of security. In addition, a number of authorities and organisations have been invited to give their views at a seminar on what a national security strategy could contain. Within several departments, a preparatory work has been carried out to develop a relevant basis for such a strategy. All this data is now being processed in the Government Office with a focus on producing a single draft as planned within the next few months. Last year, the Prime Minister invited the leaders of the bourgeois parties to a discussion on the possibility of developing a common national security strategy for Sweden. The starting point was the tradition we have in Sweden when it comes to cross-block agreements on, among other things, defence and security policy. The desire of the bourgeois parties to participate directly in the work of developing a strategy did not come to light in that discussion. It was therefore concluded that the Government would produce a draft strategy and then re-contact the parties involved in the deliberation. It is still the government's intention to make such renewed contacts once a single draft has taken shape. In response to Hans Wallmark's question as to why the Prime Minister and the Government have rejected the Moderates' request to give the Defence Committee a new and broader mandate, I would like to state the following. Work is currently under way to implement the defence decision taken by the Riksdag in June 2015. The implementation of the defence decision is followed by the defence group, with the five parties in the Riksdag behind the agreement, including the Moderates. It is an appropriate forum to monitor and manage the implementation of the Decision. The result of the implementation is an important starting point for the next defence preparation and future defence decisions. I therefore believe that the issue of convening the Committee on Defence is too early. Of course, the Defence Committee's reports are important elements in the basis of the currently ongoing preparation work on the national security strategy. However, the security strategy itself is not just a matter of security and defence policy. It must therefore be considered whether the Defence Committee or any other existing or new forum is most appropriate to form the basis for any parliamentary work.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-79	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. An important component of hybrid battles is confusion. The government is sometimes characterised by this when it comes to answers to interpellations. Some time ago, last spring, the Prime Minister had a strange reasoning about buffer zones and Swedish security policy. Then I woke up an interpellation. It was answered by Margot Wallström, who was allowed to form the parliamentary cleaning team. The Minister for Defence himself has been out quite a lot with regard to the NATO Strategic Communications Centre in Riga, Stratcom. I woke up an interpellation about it. Then it was Minister Ygeman who answered. Now I raise a question about national security strategy, which I understand is being handled by the Council of State Committee. But then it is not the Prime Minister who answers, but Minister of Defence Hultqvist. Some confusion, then, is on the government side about who is taking what question. In Sälen, to which we have referred in a previous debate, the State Secretary of the Government Committee Hans Dahlgren was present and presented the structure of a national security strategy. Then it was promised that it would be ready for the summer. It is quite warm out there, Madam President, and Midsummer is past, so I wonder a little bit when summer comes at the Council of State Committee, so that there is a document to present. Madam President, I would like These are really very serious and serious issues. If a national security strategy is now being developed, I would like to ask the question: how do you do the national security strategy? The Minister of Defence, as some other Social Democrats have done in the past, refers to the fact that there was a meeting some time ago at the Prime Minister's Committee, with the Prime Minister as an invitation, where ideas were presented about a national security strategy. Among other things, my party leader Anna Kinberg Batra said that she thought that a suitable forum to prepare the idea of a national security strategy was, for example, a defence preparation. It has been interpreted as a repellent hand, and since then it has been put on the government side. Now it is said that you should present something to the parties that were invited. Then, Madam President, I would like to make it quite clear that you cannot come up with any skimmers and then think that you can put together a national security strategy. This is a solid, serious, important piece of work. The Secretary of Defense has experience of how a defence preparation works. Then it is solid material and heavy draws, and you have deep, trusting conversations. All of this has so far been lacking in the development of a national security strategy. My question is: How do you possibly convert some cordless papers produced at the Council of State Committee into something that can be called a national and thus common security strategy? Madam President, I would like Let me give the Minister of Defence a few words along the way about what should be included in a national security strategy. The most obvious – I do not think there are any differences between the Minister for Defence and me – is, for example, the new, serious behaviour that Russia has shown after the illegal annexation of Crimea. We have the fighting against Ukraine with Russian troops inside Ukrainian territory. We have the collective defence obligations that will be central to the NATO summit in Warsaw. We have North Africa with decaying states and therefore also a growing risk of terrorist threats to Europe. We've got the migration flows. We have a China that is increasingly aggressive towards its neighbours. We have the Middle East, Iraq and Syria with Daish. We have Europe's division as a consequence of Brexit but also other forces that are trying to tear apart. We have cyber threats and cyber attacks. We have energy as a security policy weapon. We have the climate, which will affect the fight for resources. There are a few words along the way that I would like to give in terms of a national security strategy.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-92	Madam President, I would like Then we have total defence elements, and we need to look at civilian preparedness. We have information operations, we have psychological warfare, we have crime, we have organised crime and we have natural disasters. So we have a wide range of issues that span a wide range of areas. When one comes to what the overall security of society is all about, one comes down to basic functions such as social conditions, education systems and other things. This is therefore a very broad whole covering many policy areas. It is also much broader than a defence preparation is in this context. This strategy has, as it were, a broader ambition than that covered by the Defence Committee. Initially, they have worked with independent researchers who have been consulted in the area of security. A number of authorities and organisations have been invited to a seminar to give their views on the content of a national security strategy. A working group – the State Secretary Group – has been set up with representatives from the relevant departments of the Government Office. A single draft will be drawn up in the coming months. After that, renewed contacts will be made with the parties. I will not predict what that discussion will mean. However, those who are invited to these consultations should, in connection with this, perhaps consider what their own views and strategy are and what they want to contribute to this, in addition to a proposal to call in the Defense Committee. The defense committee doesn't have the same mission. A defence committee should follow the developments in security policy in the outside world and present more important long-term defence and security policy issues and present its views on this, and this is done to the Minister of Defence. It may also include proposals in the field of defence, which I would require to be particularly concrete and which will form the basis for a future defence settlement that will steer activities in 2020 – 2025. We must therefore also see this kind of nuance in this context. As far as the defence preparation is concerned, I have made it clear before Christmas that I intend to call for a discussion that is not linked to the national security strategy work but is a preparation for a forthcoming defence preparation, where we can discuss, among other things, the security policy situation and some conclusions that could possibly be drawn from this. It is clear that, in its propagandistic zeal – because we enter hybrid combats, wicker paper and so on – by using word choices that are supposed to appear provocative and so on, we can make ourselves part of hybrid warfare or psychological warfare in order to reduce, offend or humiliate in various ways the one that one might perceive as an opponent. I understand that Wallmark himself possesses some of these skills through the way in which he conducts this debate. By way of information, I can say that one can, of course, try to turn Stratcom into something that would show some kind of wrangling. But formally it belongs in the Ministry of Justice, and that is why Ygeman answered the question. It was as simple as that. We will continue to work on this and come back to the opposition. Until then, you also have the opportunity to think about how you want to contribute constructively.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-102	Madam President, I would like It would be completely strange to reduce the government or the Secretary of Defense. I've just told you the truth. With regard to the point on what you yourself would like to contribute, on my small note I had at least twelve proposals which were words on the way in areas, in addition to a national security strategy, which I think should be prepared. Madam President, I would like I'll give the Secretary of Defense the right thing to do. He made a further six eight proposals, which I think are perfectly reasonable for us to also discuss and discuss. Madam President, I would like Look at that! So we have 18 – 20 points that we should be able to discuss across party and block borders around a national security strategy. So we have that tradition. Let me also commend the government. In connection with the convulsions created by the British referendum, talks have taken place this morning between opposition representatives from the Alliance and the government on the consequences for the Swedish part of Brexit. I think that's good. You talk to each other. In connection with France's request under the EU Treaty 42.7 for support and assistance in the fight against terror following the terrible acts in Paris, we also held talks between the parties. I think that is basically a good thing. Now the Minister for Defence says that a national security strategy is about so many and important issues. He's absolutely right about that. He says it takes a broader processing than just the Defense Preparation. But in a defense committee there are eight parties. What the Minister of Defence has now told us about the government's handling of a national security strategy is that the two government parties are sitting and talking to each other. They have also called in a group of secretaries and held a seminar. With all due respect, Madam President, I think that a defence preparation is another forum where many parties come together and can discuss the various security challenges at an early stage. Take the 18 - 20 points that the Secretary of Defense and I have scraped together just for a few minutes of conversation. Surely these should be things that could be talked about together with joint presentations, with common background material and a conversation between different people. The fundamental question to the Minister for Defence is: how do you make this a national security strategy? The Prime Minister's Committee has been doing this work for a number of months. In Sälen in January, it was promised that it would be ready this summer. Now I understand from the Secretary of Defense that it will take a few more months. It's been six to nine months' work. Then there is the intention to present some papers. Then comes the fundamental question: how do you do this nationally? In my world, if you want to achieve something that is useful and beneficial to the country and which is broadly based, you try to talk to the various representatives of the parliamentary parties, at least with the representatives of the four alliance opposition parties. My advice in all humility, and without reducing the government in any way, is that one should really think about how to create this national security strategy. My advice is to make it wide. My suggestion is that this could be done within the framework of a defence preparation. We know that a defence committee works in such a way that a security policy analysis is first produced. It'll take a year. The consequences for the Swedish defence are then identified. It'll take a year, too. It's an excellent form if you don't think of something better yourself. Then I do not think that two government parties having a seminar with their State Secretary are an adequate alternative.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-115	Madam President, I would like At the last meeting it was perceived by the government that the will of the bourgeois side to participate directly in this work of developing a strategy was not very great and not very high on the agenda. The conclusion reached was that a proposal for a strategy should be drawn up and used as a basis for further discussions with the parties involved in this discussion. It is on this basis that I say that you yourself may want to think about how you want to proceed constructively. Then it may be that you also have to think about something broader than just a defence preparation. This has a broader scope of action than just the questions of the Committee on Defence. What you say in the debate, Hans Wallmark, that all parties are in the Defense Committee is not a relevant argument. This is a complex of questions that is broader than what the Committee on Defence is about. What the Defence Preparation will then do is a security strategy that leads to proposals and actions in the field of defence and security policy alone. A national security strategy shall contain ideas and proposals that are much broader in this context. As far as this story is concerned, I do not think there is any reason to reduce the importance of the job being done with researchers, authorities, organisations and the internal working group. It is only one way for me to report that it is working on the issue to produce the basis that will then be presented to the other parties, so that you have a good and qualified basis for the continued discussion. It is therefore a preparatory work that I consider to be serious and also necessary. Now, if we're going to go back to where this starts, it's something completely different from skimming paper and attempts at hybrid warfare. Since Mr Wallmark mentioned a number of points where he thinks the government has been very exemplary and excellent in its actions, I hope that we have now come from that level of discussion. It's not skimming paper and hybrid warfare we're doing. I would therefore like to ball back at you. Think a little about the future and how you want to post this in order for us to move forward! The defence committee is not the only solution in this context; it can be part of a concerted effort. I am well aware of the security situation around us; we have discussed it many times. No one is turning a blind eye to either one or the other, but we are in the process of taking action in a broad field. But look at the breadth of your work and how you could possibly develop your positions. We will seriously invite further discussions. If we are all deeply interested in it, we can probably come up with a good work and approach. I will of course convey the views that emerge in this debate also to the Council of State Committee.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-124	Madam President, I would like Peter Hultqvist represents the government side. I represent the opposition side. It is usually the government that will shoulder the responsibility to rule and lead. If you now have the ambition to develop a security strategy that should be national and thus shared and common, you should also think about the anchoring process yourself. In the context of the talks that have taken place, we, the Moderates, have proposed that the defence preparation could be an appropriate forum for the parties to meet and discuss the security challenges we face. Then the government says: No, that's not good. But make some other suggestion, they say. Well, then, Madam President, it is up to the government, which actually has to rule and lead, to also come up with another proposal if you really are genuinely interested in developing a strategy that is precisely national. There you are renons on ideas. In addition, I think that the six or eight points for a strategy listed by the Minister for Defence were excellent. I hope he thinks that the twelve points I tabled were also excellent. That is what I mean: this work would have been done a long time before, together. Now the government itself and according to its own head has chosen this form. The two government parties sit in the Council of State Committee together with the knowledge and researchers you can obtain, which absolutely should not be underestimated. That is where this structure is drawn up. My basic question, which I still do not think the Minister for Defence has answered, is: how do you make this something national, something common, something shared? That is what could have been the strength of a national security strategy. Now it risks becoming its weakness and burden.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-128	Madam President, I would like This is about how complicated you want to do things. In normal association, it works to meet and to reason with an open mind. The picture I got of the opening meeting was not that the mind was particularly open, but it was quite locked. The conclusion was therefore that we are developing a basis for further discussions. If the feeling was that this was a closed sitting that did not lead to much, then we must make sure that we open up properly for the next meeting. Also from the other side you have to show a little will and think about how to get around in a flexible way. It's not just up to one party to invite the other so that the other can sit and in depth analyze and almost make business out of the smallest detail in the context. I think there is a little bit of a deadlock in this discussion too: it is the government that has the responsibility and must come up with the proposals. Of course, it can ultimately be, but a little bit it is also the basic attitude that determines whether you come forward. I have no objection to the fact that defence preparations are a way to arrive, because they give quite a lot of time. But I also have experience of how a government can try to control a defence preparation and to a large extent put restraint and even mental pressure on it. It can go so far as to feel somewhat uncomfortable expressing alternative positions. It also depends on the feeling a government wants to give in the work of a defence committee. We will eventually set up a defence committee, and I will work to ensure that we have an open climate in that context. The defense committee has a mission. This is a broader mission. We'll get back to you with an invitation. I look forward to having a constructive discussion then, and I will convey Wallmark's views to the Council of State Committee.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-133	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I and the government are prepared to take to secure the access of armed forces to the necessary vehicles in the event of war or increased preparedness. Adequate access to material is crucial to the ability of the armed forces to carry out their duties and thus to the ability of the Armed Forces to face an armed attack. Trucks are an example of this. Sweden, together with Norway, has, within the framework of a framework agreement with MAN, ordered trucks intended to be delivered to the Swedish Armed Forces in 2017. The Swedish Armed Forces are also planning further purchases of trucks. The procurement was carried out in competition. In the evaluation of the quotes, MAN was assessed to deliver the best products at the best price. Due to delivery problems at MAN, the supply of the vehicles in question has been delayed by about two years – something the government takes seriously. The government is actively working to shorten lead times from ordering to supplying all defence equipment. Shortening lead times in the supply of materials is an important issue for the Swedish Armed Forces. The agency is also actively working to reduce the so-called repair queue, which in turn improves the access of military units to their equipment. However, I can say that the Swedish Armed Forces will not be able to have all the vehicles needed for the entire organisation in the event of increased preparedness and then ultimately in war. The ability of the legislation on availability to use vehicles or other property is therefore crucial for meeting the Swedish Armed Forces' overall needs. The Swedish Armed Forces have therefore begun to analyse what measures are needed to secure the needs of the armed forces for vehicles in peace as well as for increased preparedness and ultimately in war. In addition, the legislation on enforcement is an important part of the renewed overall defence planning. The Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency have recently presented a proposal on common grounds for coherent planning for total defence. The proposal is an important first step for the continued work on the Swedish total defence, including the question of how to use the entire provision legislation to ensure the needs of the total defence.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-138	Madam President, I would like Let me give you a message from Allan Widman, to whom I spoke yesterday. He says that he is unfortunately unable to participate in the debate. It is an important issue that is addressed in the interpellation. The lack of trucks in the Swedish Armed Forces is reportedly acute. This means that mobility in the so-called functional units is limited. There are medical companies, anti-aircraft battalions, command battalions, private staff, telewar battalions and of course logistics battalions. Trucks are something that is usually referred to as a bottom plate in the defense – something that is prioritised. Now, however, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration believes that decisions will only be made in 2023. As the Minister for Defence said in his reply, this is in accordance with a framework agreement in which Norway and Sweden have chosen to procure German trucks from MAN. In view of the delay, we can consider whether there is any reason for the Minister of Defence to review the agreement. Norway dropped out of Archer, and then the question is how the Minister for Defence sees this delay and that in every major or medium-sized city there is a repair and maintenance organisation for Volvo Trucks and Scania. Is there anything to consider now that this has been delayed? That is a concrete question. With regard to the Act of Availability, the question is whether the Minister and the Government are prepared to take measures to secure the access of the units to the necessary vehicles in the event of war or increased preparedness. The Minister of Defence said in his reply that the Swedish Armed Forces will be dependent on being able to use the Access Act in the event of increased preparedness to meet the need for vehicles for the Swedish Armed Forces. We all have a full understanding of that. On the other hand, Madam President, I did not understand when the organisation that could place civilian vehicles and receive them in the event of a possible mobilisation will be in place. Is it so that if the Armed Forces were to be requested within the next two or three years, there is no such organisation? I would like an answer to that question.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-144	Madam President, I would like As far as the supply of these vehicles is concerned, it is a matter of negotiation between the supplier and FMV. According to these negotiations, delivery should start in 2017. Of course, we take the delays seriously and feel that it is a heavy responsibility of the supplier to deliver ordered vehicles. Breaking possible contracts in the event of continued supply problems is a matter between contracting authorities and the supplier. For our part, we note that there is a great need for these vehicles. But I would like to point out that it is at the level of the authorities that this is. Should I venture into further reflections, it may lead to Oscarsson having reason to write a KU-registration, and I would not have thought of that as the end of this discussion. The legislation is the subject of the review that is now being carried out in response to the Swedish Armed Forces' overall needs and the discussions that are taking place on total defence. We have begun to analyse what measures are needed to secure the need for vehicles for the armed forces both in peace and in the event of increased preparedness and ultimately in war. This is, as I said, an important part of the renewed total defence planning. Therefore, it is too early to say when a new organization can be in place and what it will look like. A few weeks ago we received the report from MSB and the Swedish Armed Forces on how to view the continued work on total defence planning. We have not had time to go through it yet and give our priorities and views on it. Oscarsson must have some understanding that we need time to work on this. But here today I am making the point that we also have transparency in using the legislation available to deal with this type of problem in the long term.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-149	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Defence is very open about the fact that the trucks will not be enough in the event of a crisis and that it is therefore so important with the Access Act. Then I would like to repeat my question as to whether a mobilization would be a fact, is the organisation in place if that were to happen? We do not know whether we are facing a crisis situation and, at worst, war in a few years' time or – hopefully – never. But we still need to be prepared for Sweden to be attacked. In an earlier debate, I mentioned that Anders Brännström has said that Sweden can be at war in a few years' time. It is the readiness and insight that we must gain at all levels of the Swedish Armed Forces, in all the authorities involved and here in Parliament. That is the case and we must take altitude for it. Then this delay in something as basic as trucks becomes particularly worrying. It is even more worrying that the organisation does not seem to be in place if this legislation had to be used within a few years. The question is: Is this organisation in place if we need to make use of the legislation on availability?
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-153	Madam President, I would like In 2013, about 150 trucks were ordered, most of which are simple, unprotected standard trucks. The delivery of this order is scheduled for 2017. The Swedish Armed Forces also plan to order some 300 additional vehicles under the same agreement during 2017. There are therefore large orders for vehicles. With regard to the issue of being on the ground, I would like to remind you of what I said in the last debate: you were in power for eight years. When you left the government, there was a lot to be desired. As you well know, the total defense is heavily dismantled and has a comprehensive potential for improvement. I can't stand here and say that we are now dealing with this with immediate effect. It's such a huge amount of things that have to be arranged in the total defense. I have now received the report that the Defense Committee ordered and that we agreed on in the defense settlement. We only got it a few weeks ago. Mikael Oscarsson himself knows this well because he has been involved in the whole process. Now he asks me to be able to give an exact answer to how I deal with those parts, but I cannot do that now, but I do when we have worked through this. But the signal today is that we have an openness to use the legislation available to ensure that there is a good conclusion to this and to have an organisation that holds for the future. On this point, we basically take the same approach. On the other hand, it is not reasonable to demand that I be able to give a reply on this point exactly now, just a few weeks after I have received the first report on the restoration of total defence in Sweden. I'll take that question with me. We will be working seriously on it, as with all other issues and with all other gaps in the organisation after your government handed over responsibility to us.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-158	Madam President, I would like Ulf Berg has asked me whether I believe that the requirement for certified cash registers contributes to the preservation of cultural heritage and, if so, how. The provisions on certified cash registers in the cash sector were introduced from 1 January 2010. From 1 January 2014, the minimum reserve requirement was extended to include market and market trade. The Tax Agency may grant exemptions from the minimum reserve requirement, inter alia, if a certain obligation for technical reasons is unfair. Anyone who is not satisfied with the work's decision can appeal to the administrative court. The provisions are not primarily aimed at preserving our cultural heritage, but were introduced to combat tax evasion and to protect serious businesses from unfair competition from rogue entrepreneurs. This also protects serious entrepreneurs who carry out activities that are part of the cultural heritage.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-161	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, for your answer! I tried to put the interpellation to the Minister for Culture, but it does not seem to have been appropriate. That is why we are having this debate. The countryside is often described as becoming a pasture. Let us begin by ignoring that expression. I am a member of the Parliamentary Rural Committee, and there are about the same number of people living in rural areas today as in 1950. There are reports that now indicate that the long-term investigation's very negative figures may be incorrect, if we do the right things with those who have applied to Sweden and if we manage housing and jobs. It's a pretty positive picture. But it is also important that we can preserve an old tradition that exists in my home county Dalarna but also in Värmland, Gästrikland, Härjedalen and Jämtland, to take some examples. It's a very special operation. At the moment we have a case that created a debate, and it concerns Karl-Tövåsen-Tövåsen's Fäbod and Tin Gumun. I know very well that the Minister of Finance cannot comment on individual cases, but this is interesting because it will set a precedent for the whole farmland. I've been to a local visit and I can see that cell phone coverage is virtually zero. Even the Minister of Finance knows that if more people are going to fight over the little cell phone coverage that exists, it usually ends up with no one having one. It's not quite a success. Fäbodvallen is often somewhere far away, because they wanted to use the forest bait. The baits at home were not always enough, but it was important to make sure that the mowing from there gave food over the winter. There is reason to maintain this. A lot of women and children had to work hard. Maybe the men were at war or were at home, making sure there was food. In Sweden there are some who carry out these activities in order to preserve the cultural heritage. Many times, however, a collision occurs. The County Administrative Board says that you can't set up solar cells and that it should be one way or the other. At the same time, the Swedish Tax Agency says that there should be cash registers. Let us be in complete agreement on one thing. I'm incredibly positive about cash registers. I've been on the Tax Committee and I'm one of those people who worked for this. The removal of the exception for market and market trade is a good thing. Of course, if you are an entrepreneur, it should not be because of competition from rogue entrepreneurs. That is not what the debate is about. The question concerns cases where it is almost impossible to have a cash register. In any case, my view is that there should then be an opportunity for exemption. Now we do not know whether the judgment of the Administrative Court of Appeal will be a final judgment or whether the Swedish Tax Agency is pushing this to the next instance. For my part, I do not think there is any need to worry that the farm farm will be classified as a market and market trade. It's so incredibly different businesses. In that case, I don't think the IRS has to worry. I sincerely hope that the verdict will stand.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-172	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ulf Berg for raising this issue in an interpellation debate, because it is an important issue. I am pleased that we agree on how good it is with cash registers and that it is something that creates a level playing field for those companies that are trying in different ways to do the right thing. Just as Ulf Berg says, you should not have to be outcompeted by companies that make an effort not to do the right thing. It has been a good thing that we also introduced cash registers for the market and market trade. However, as Ulf Berg says, there may be circumstances where it is unfair to require cash registers. That is why there is a possibility in the legislation for the responsible authority of the Tax Agency to derogate from the cash register requirement. It is important that these opportunities exist. As Ulf Berg points out, I do not have the opportunity to speak in individual cases. However, I can generally share Ulf Berg's view that the pasture embankments are an important cultural heritage that we have a responsibility to maintain and preserve. Ulf Berg comes from Dalarna. I also have a background from Dalarna with its pastures, so I know what a fantastic cultural heritage there is in those activities. I think there is a tourist potential in Sweden that we are not close to using at all, with the possibility to travel by car or by foot to visit the pasture embankments and take part in the culture and products produced in our pasture embankments. Here I think there is much more potential to work with for Turismsverige. It will also be able to provide fair tax revenue in the state treasury.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-176	Madam President, I would like After all, it is precisely what the Finance Minister concluded with that has become the problem in this particular case, because we want to make everything white in accordance with the rules in force. If you had flown under the radar, this might never have been discovered by anyone. That's why it's particularly troubling. If you have white wages, as you have in this case, both the Minister for Finance and I understand that you also have to have white revenues. Otherwise, the company will soon be bankrupt. It is, of course, difficult when the Swedish Tax Agency has not put its foot down, but I have, as I said, followed this work and know that there have been many objections from both market and market trade. Electricity safety and other things are brought into the debate. Sometimes I think it's excuses that don't hold up. In this case, however, I find it very difficult to put a hole in the farmer's application for derogation. I may think that mobile masts, solar cells and a lot of other things don't belong on a pasture wall. I fully share the view of the Minister for Finance that this is a tourism industry that will be able to develop. We can also see this in many cases. It is clear that it is a great way to keep the pasture embankments around in large parts of Sweden in operation, so that it is not just a summer place, as it has become of many pasture embankments – there is something small light in some window a few weeks in the summer. Instead, this is something that is alive. What we should also not forget is the biodiversity we get when cattle are out in the woods grazing. We wouldn't have that without living cattle. As you know, we have predators in Dalarna. I asked Tin when I was visiting, and she often has peel necklaces on the animals and can see that they are sometimes seven eight kilometres from the pasture wall, but still comes back pretty much like a clock until. 16 and want to be milked. It's fascinating in itself. I hope that the Minister of Finance will, in a possible other judgment, consider whether there is any reason to review the legislation further. There is a clear possibility of derogation if it is unreasonable to make these requirements. Now the Administrative Court has said that it is not unfair, while the Administrative Court of Appeal has said that it is unfair. I, who am going to end in this House, can afford to wish that the Tax Agency can be a bit flexible with the exemptions. When we in the Tax Committee had a dialogue with the Swedish Tax Agency, we were very eager to say that it is better to use exemptions if there are problems, because it was very important to get started with the legislation. Once again, I would like to say that I am certainly a friend of cash registers, which do not involve very great costs for an entrepreneur today either. As we said, the question concerns the very specific problems that may exist when you operate far from honour and honesty, I was about to say. Even those of us who live where it is at least a bit denser buildings usually have problems with mobile coverage, and then we can imagine what it is like on the pasture wall. As I said, I hope that we have made a good law that works in practice.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-183	Madam President, I would like As Ulf Berg states, there has been a judicial review of this specific case with different outcomes in the Administrative Court and the Administrative Court of Appeal. Now, of course, we are waiting for how the Tax Agency intends to act – whether to proceed or whether to stay at the conclusion of the Administrative Court of Appeal. Of course, it is important that we, as legislators, follow the legal developments for both this and other laws. It is possible to make adjustments to the legislation if there is a change in law that is different from what was envisaged when the Parliament passed the law. It is important that we follow up on various laws and can have a discussion in the Riksdag about possible adjustments. As far as the Cash Register Act is concerned, it is important that there is acceptance of the law by the business community. It's important for compliance. My picture is that there is a great deal of acceptance for the Cash Register Act. Many of the companies that try to conduct a serious business and pay taxes and charges that they should also think it is good that there are cash registers so that they do not have to face unfair competition. There has been a fantastic development in the cash register industry where it is now possible to buy cash registers at a relatively low cost. The systems have also been developed. The electrical safety authority believes that it is now possible to use them in the weather as well. If it is unfair to have a cash register, of course you should not have to have a cash register either. Here it is important that we have an authority that is able to apply the legislation.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-188	Madam President, I would like Once again, thank you to the Minister for his reply. It feels good. I fully understand that this day is an important issue for many in Dalarna. But with a referendum in mind, there are other things to deal with. I wish the Minister of Finance good luck in that job too. We hope that it will not be quite as serious as both stock exchanges and other things seem to be. Thank you very much for your reply, and thank you very much also to the President.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-189	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ulf Berg once again for the question. We are working very much with Brexit right now in the Government Office. But this is also an important issue. This is an issue that is important from a number of points of view. It is about us being able to have good conditions for living and working, working and living throughout our country. There should be good conditions for business. We have talked several times here about mobile masts and well-developed opportunities to use both mobile telephony and broadband across the country. This is also an important issue in this situation. It's important. Then there is another dimension to this. It is just as Ulf Berg points out, that it is about preserving a cultural heritage. We have a responsibility to preserve the important cultural heritage and pass it on to future generations so that it will not only be summer cottages on our pasture embankments but that there can also be an activity there with all the fantastic products- It can be produced. As we have noted, there is also potential for increased tourism in these parts of the country.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-193	Madam President, I would like Mrs Roswall has asked me when we can expect legislation in this area to increase consumer protection in body treatments to come into force. Today, there is already a system that gives the individual some protection in performing aesthetic treatments. To a certain extent, the treatments are covered by the Inspection for Health and Social Care responsibilities over certified health professionals, municipal oversight responsibilities over professional hygiene activities under the Environmental Code and consumer protection legislation. As the current protection for those undergoing aesthetic treatments has proven to be flawed, the previous government set up an investigation into aesthetic treatments and other interventions with medical risks outside healthcare and dental care. The study submitted its report in autumn 2015 and it has been submitted until recently. The investigation proposed a new law for the protection of body treatments for aesthetic purposes. Preparation of the submitted proposals is currently under way in the Government Office. However, the referral bodies have not been entirely positive, which makes the processing situation complicated.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-196	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would like to begin by reading out the Government's own consumer policy objectives. It reads: the objective of consumer policy is to ensure the proper functioning of consumer markets. The goal of the Alliance is somewhat different. It is that consumers have the power and the ability to make active choices. In debates at different levels, I and the Moderates have received criticism that our goal is too narrow. It has been stated by S and MP that the government's objectives also include ensuring that consumers have the opportunity to make active choices. I intend to come back to the government's objectives a little later and what was written in the budget bill. For me, the interpellation is about giving consumers power and the opportunity to make active and conscious choices. I wonder if it is what is meant by the government's own objective to have a well-functioning consumer market. The Government's response, which we heard just now and which I have read before, is rather a sign that nothing is going to happen in this area. It is, of course, as the Government says, that there is some protection. But I thought we agreed that this protection has so far been inadequate. Beauty care has exploded in recent years. It is a large market, and we see no sign that it will decrease, but rather it will increase. I have no views on this and am a consumer of certain treatments myself. But there's no protection. When a consumer is affected or some malpractice occurs, it becomes clear to everyone that there is no protection. There is no supervision at all that the Minister talks about in his response. The investigation that I refer to in my interpellation just took the name Beauty Investigation. It is quite clear what this is about. It is body treatments that aim to change the appearance that the trader offers consumers. Today, there is no comprehensive regulation under which conditions physical treatments can be carried out. The Minister says in his reply that there is supervision. I would like to answer both yes and no to that question. For some treatments there is supervision. However, there are different authorities that have supervisory responsibilities, and there are doubts as to where responsibility starts or ends. It is not satisfactory that we have it that way. As I began by saying, I believe that consumer policy is about giving consumers the opportunity to make their active choices. The government saw that this possibility was missing in this area, and therefore set up the investigation. I will come back to the budget proposal last autumn. I know it's not the government's part of the budget bill, but anyway. It says: Consumers should be able to use independent information and guidance to take advantage of their rights and be able to choose products based on their own needs and interests. One of the things suggested in the investigation is to be able to provide an information service. My question to the Minister is why the government does not take up the issue. I haven't read all the referrals, but I've read some. I understand that there are legal problems and challenges with the investigation's proposals. But there is no reason to do nothing. How can it be done to enable the consumer in this area to make the active and conscious choices? It is an issue where I wonder as we will see any change from the government.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-206	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start by thanking Jessika Roswall for setting the interpellation. That is a very important question. But I do not really agree with Mrs Roswall on the purpose of today's debate. I argue that it is not just about consumers of aesthetic treatments being able to make enlightened choices and be able to choose between different options. What the debate should be about is how we protect people who choose to go through aesthetic treatments so that in the future we do not have to see terrible stories and hear terrible stories about how patients have had their lips destroyed or because of other procedures perhaps had breasts that they no longer enjoy or whatever it may be. That is, of course, the starting point not only for the debate but also for the investigation that was set up – that we should protect the people who do these kinds of treatments. In the investigation that has been carried out and in the consultation round that has taken place, there have been a number of difficult questions of principle that the investigation has not solved and which the government is now struggling with trying to bone out in order to come up with measures that ultimately protect consumers, or patients – the people who are undergoing this type of treatment. One of the most important of these issues is precisely the demarcation between, on the one hand, pure consumption of this type of treatment and, on the other hand, the fact that many of the treatments can be considered as pure health care. If we were to go completely on the proposal the investigation has made, the risk would be that we would have a grey area between these different perspectives and that people would thus continue to risk getting between the chairs and risking their health when they undergo these kinds of treatments. That is why the government is now in the middle of a process of preparation. V i cannot give a clear time when it will be completed and when we can come up with proposals. But we take this issue very seriously, and it is very important – not only from a consumer perspective but also from a healthcare perspective. I do not want there to be any doubt about that.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-211	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your answer, but perhaps I was unclear. I fully agree with the Minister that it is ultimately about how we ensure that we have a high level of consumer protection and, at all, a high level of protection for the competent way in which the treatments are carried out, but I lacked something in the answer. I understand that the report contains shortcomings, but it still contains two clear proposals. One is a bill and the other is a proposal for an information service. The Minister knows that Hallå konsument has been around for a couple of years, and there you get a lot of questions of this kind. This is not really the area of the service. Then I think that there is still a proposal and that – even if it is probably simplified – it might be possible to divide it up. If we now see that the draft law of the investigation lacks solutions to a great many of the issues, because it is complicated, perhaps we can lift one part out of it. I believe that we must make it easier for the consumer to make the active choices. Of course, if the consumer is in a position to obtain factual and independent information, it will make it easier, especially in relation to the type of services we are talking about that can pose significant health risks. The more informed the consumer can be, the more it makes it easier, and perhaps I think that this issue could be given priority. But I was probably a little unclear in the first post. I feel a bit of frustration, too. If we look at other services that we consumers use, we see that in recent years there have been several changes. There is a great deal of information on financial services, and in the case of distance purchases, there are a lot of legal requirements on what information the trader should provide before buying. So we see this in many different areas. Here we now have a proposal, and we see a problem in society today – a problem that is also increasing. That is why I think that certain questions can perhaps be given priority. Otherwise, of course, I agree that, at the end of the day, it is a matter of protecting so that there are no malpractices. The question, then, is whether we can go ahead with the information section. Is there more to be done in this area?
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-216	Madam President, I would like The main challenge in this area is precisely that the type of services we are talking about are not any services, because many of them are health services. Many of them are also very close to health services. This brings us to the whole regulatory framework that governs healthcare and which, in addition to taking into account a transaction between different people, also has to do with ethical aspects. It has to do with changes in the body and the functioning of the body, which can have very far-reaching effects. It is also this that makes the entire preparation situation so challenging. If we go firmly after the investigation's proposal, we risk ending up in a grey area which means that people will continue to end up between the chairs. We are, of course, looking at whether there are elements in the investigation that we can proceed with more quickly, and the information service is interesting. However, it should be borne in mind that an information service is only useful if it is able to provide information that guides the consumer. If basic legislation and regulations are unclear, it does not matter how well developed the service is, because it only risks passing on a lack of clarity that exists in the basic regulatory framework. That is why I cannot say here and now whether we will be able to get ahead with the information service because, in many cases, it is probably also dependent on changes in the underlying regulatory framework. But it is clear that this is an important issue and that it is important to move forward. This has already taken far too long.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate. For me, it was important to highlight the issue, because we see, as I said, that this is increasing. It's almost exploding. I fully respect the fact that it is a complicated piece of legislation to introduce, but I would like it to be speeded up. I think that the Minister has responded in this regard, namely that the issue has been highlighted and understands that it is important. It is a partially unregulated market, as I said, and we need to move forward in this. Maybe you can peek a little at Hallå konsument or bring it in somewhere. There are good examples to look at, and I think that the investigation has pointed out things that could be done. For me, it is important that the consumer has the opportunity to make active and conscious choices, and then the consumer must be given those conditions. I also believe that the consumer expects from us legislators that we have laws and rules that regulate this, and in this case it may unfortunately be noticed that it is missing. I want to thank you for the answers. I hope that the government will urgently continue to work on this issue.
i-6ed484b1bcb865b9-224	Madam President, I would like I can only thank Mrs Roswall once again for highlighting the issue. As I said, it is very important, and it is important to move forward in this area as a matter of urgency. It has taken quite a long time already. We also have a challenge that this type of treatment will probably increase in the future as people's preferences change. Technology and development are also progressing. Then it is important to have a regulatory framework in place, and that is why we are now looking at how we can avoid creating new grey areas and make as solid a change as possible – which can actually last over time and not become just a hazelnut. With that, I would like to thank you once again, and I would like to take this opportunity to wish both the interpeller and the Madam President and the others present a pleasant summer.
