i-5juDYcPR8igtDZ8PafBd6F	Madam President, I would like Robert Halef has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to promote the autonomy of Chaldeans, Syrians and Assyrians in northern Iraq in the light of European Parliament Resolution B8-1159/2016 in bilateral contacts with the Government of Iraq and Kurdish regional self-government in Erbil and the UN Security Council. The conflict in Iraq is a human disaster, and I am very concerned about the situation of Christians and other minorities. Coherent reports speak of gross, systematic and widespread violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. Daish brutality has indiscriminately hit the civilian population. No one escapes – neither Sunns, Shiites, Kurds, Christians, nor other groups. The government has strongly condemned Daish and its brutal abuse. Together with the international community, we have a responsibility to prevent crimes against humanity, war crimes, ethnic cleansing or genocide. Punishment is not an option. As the European Parliament's resolution makes clear, the Mosuloffensiv has brought back the need for planning for post-Da'esh in Iraq. The way forward must meet the need for an inclusive political agenda in order not to risk escalating instability and sectarian division. In the long term, it is this broad political process that is crucial for establishing legal rule and protection for Christians and other minorities in the country. This could, if the Iraqis themselves wish, include local self-government for different groups. Nor does the government see that special free zones for various vulnerable minorities would solve the problems that exist in Iraq. A prerequisite for establishing a protected zone is also that Iraq itself is asking for it. No such request has been made. The Government conducts an ongoing dialogue with representatives of various minority groups, both in Sweden and in Iraq. During his visit to Erbil in October, the Prime Minister met representatives of Yazidi, Assyrians, Chaldeans and Syrians. In talks with representatives of both the central government of Baghdad and the Kurdistan regional government, the Prime Minister stressed the importance of respect for human rights and international humanitarian law. The Prime Minister also expressed his concern about the abuse of ethnic and religious minorities. During our time at the UN Security Council, the government will continue to work towards improved respect for international humanitarian law and human rights, humanitarian access and to support initiatives that can help bring the fighting in Iraq to an end. Sweden will also continue to push forward because the political processes include Iraq's ethnic and religious groups as well as women. This, in turn, is necessary in order to ensure long-term stability and democratic development. In the EU, the government is actively committed to complementing the UN's more short-term stabilisation and military efforts against Daish with longer-term reconciliation and political reform. This is in order to achieve sustainable and peaceful development in Iraq.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-18	Madam President, I would like For the answer, Minister of Foreign Affairs! I share what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says in his reply, except in the part dealing with protected zones. As we debate this issue, intensive and very risky military operations are under way to free occupied territory in northern Iraq from the terrorist group of the Islamic State. It is gratifying that many cities and villages on the plain of Nineves are now liberated, and that the church bells have started to ring on the plain of Nineves after two years of silence is a good sign. Despite the destruction of some historical buildings and houses, the joy of Christian communities who have returned to inspect the devastation is great. They have had hope of a new life in the region. Madam President, I would like Now that IS is being pushed away in Iraq, it is time to look to the future. We need to work towards more transparent democratic development with increased security and security in focus. We need to prepare for the reconstruction of what has been destroyed. We must build trust between people of different ethnicity, religion and faith and enable the refugees to return home. Madam President, I would like In 2014, several hundred thousand Christian inhabitants and Yazidi were forced by force to flee from Nineve, Mosul and Sinjar. The terrorist group, the Islamic State, was the perpetrator. In February, the European Parliament adopted a resolution defining the abuse as an ongoing genocide. Congress in the United States and several other parliaments have done the same, but not the Swedish government. This disappoints me very much. Refusing to recognise that IS acts of terror in the region are ultimately genocide against Syrians, Chaldeans, Assyrians, Yazidians and others is somewhat disrespectful of the minorities affected and the European Parliament's resolution decisions. Madam President, I would like On Thursday 27 October, the European Parliament voted through a resolution on, among other things, the autonomy of Christians, Yazidians and Turkmen in various parts of northern Iraq. Calls on the EEAS, the Member States and the international community to actively support the resolution; There is a great responsibility for Sweden as a member of the UN Security Council and the EU to act and work for a protected zone for the Christian communities on the plain of Nineves. Madam President, I would like There is a great deal of intolerance to the diversity of ethnic groups. Intolerance of freedom of religion and belief is great, as is the lack of respect for human rights and freedoms. In addition, there is the inability of the Iraqi Government to protect its citizens from abuse. The Christian national groups in Iraq are calling for a protected zone and believe that this is the only solution for returning and living under security and security. This is the reason for the EU's decision on protected zones to enable these groups to continue to exist in the country. The government's refusal to recognise the genocide and refusal to support protected zones in Iraq means that millions of people will be forced to remain as refugees under miserable conditions. The EU expects national governments to act in line with the resolution against third countries, and in this case against the Iraqi Government. The question is: in what way will the Swedish Government actively promote the resolution of the European Parliament?
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-25	Madam President, I would like I think we can agree that what has happened and is still happening is terrible. It is terrible to see the atrocities that take place. What is still hopeful is that they have now been expelled from Mosul. But it is by no means finished. Ma n knows in war that there can be advances, and then there will be a setback. The war is not over. There's a light in Iraq, but it's very bad in Syria. These areas are close to each other On the issue of a protected zone for Christians in particular, I understand the idea and that protection is sought. It's a very vulnerable minority. But one problem in this context is that Iraq has so far said no. The Iraqi Parliament has said that it may happen when the Nineves plain is freed. It can't be said that it's yet – it's far too early – and that's not even certain that Iraq will say yes at a later stage. What is important now is peaceful coexistence and democracy. It is important that the country does not break up and fall apart even more. There have been problems for minorities, not just in relation to Daish. This terrible situation has exacerbated other conflicts as well, and many minorities feel very uncertain. For example, some stateless Palestinians have fled Iraq because they do not feel secure either in relation to Daish, the Iraqi regime or Iraqi society. When a society is exposed this terribly, everything else is also adversely affected. We should continue to involve Iraq's government in a democratic way. Then, of course, one can have views on what governance – and of course minority protection – looks like, but excluding the democratically elected Parliament definitely has disadvantages. In the past, we see that it is not usually positive when you come from outside and run a country, but you have to include the country's representatives, the minority groups and the women, as the Foreign Minister mentioned. The people must be involved, both directly – with the communities – and through their representatives and politicians, in order for there to be a long-term positive development. No matter how you do it, I think it will take a long time because the situation is so bad. It is important to listen to the Iraqi Parliament and include it in the process. It is probably too early with this issue because the war is not over. As far as EU decisions in the European Parliament are concerned, the EU has no competence. Of course, the proposal is strong opinion-forming, and it becomes an input into the process. However, the EU has no decision-making power on this issue. With regard to the UN, the approach is to do this in consultation with Iraq in order to achieve long-term sustainable development. A short-term solution could have negative effects that have even worse consequences than those we have seen so far. The issue is certainly interesting, but I believe that it must be managed democratically in cooperation with Iraq.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-33	Madam President, I would like I would like to say something about how the government acts to assist minorities and how we think about reconstruction in Iraq. I have great sympathy for the comments that have been made, and some of them have already received good answers from Hillevi Larsson. We can all say that the situation in Iraq is a human disaster. Daish's progress has led to an increase in targeted violence against Christian minorities, which are severely affected. Continued commitment to defeat Daish on the ground is important to reduce suffering. Our participation in the coalition against Daish is broad and will now, subject to Parliament's approval, mean that we double our military training effort. There is an immediate need for humanitarian action, and Sweden has allocated over SEK 200 million this year, which makes us one of the largest bilateral donors to Iraq. The human rights situation in Iraq is also worrying. Respect for human rights, the rule of law, political participation, transparency, anti-corruption and reconciliation dialogue are absolutely crucial for stability and ultimately for a cohesive Iraq one day. The independence of the judiciary, the end of arbitrary detention and respect for the principles of the rule of law are other prerequisites. What we have to deal with is over 20 years of war, sanctions and sectarian violence, which have led to very difficult social and political challenges. This requires that you are able to get involved in a broad and very long-term way. Now, after recent military successes against Daish and the offensive against Mosul, we must look to the future. If we want to bring about lasting improvement in the situation of minorities and, not least, Christians in the Middle East – that this is necessary, we fully agree – we must get to the bottom of the problems. The government is now engaged in an ongoing dialogue with Iraq on the importance of an inclusive political dialogue. During the visits made by me, the Minister for Defence and the Prime Minister, we have stressed the need for political dialogue in order to resolve contradictions and contribute to national reconciliation and long-term stability. The very defence of fundamental human rights, as I mentioned, and the protection of ethnic and religious minorities are key elements in the fight against Daish. In the long term, it is the political process in Baghdad that is crucial to obtaining legal rule and protection for Christians and other minorities in the country. As has been said, we have raised this on several occasions with the KRG, the Central Government and representatives of Yazidians, Assyrians, Chaldeans and Syrians. We have decided to develop a five-year aid strategy for Iraq with a focus on peace and state building and gender equality. It will comprise SEK 130 million a year. With regard to the idea of a protected zone, Iraq needs to want it and, moreover, it needs to be able to maintain it and ensure that it really becomes a protected zone and not a death trap. Our main objection so far has been that the base must be a desire from the country itself and that they see it as part of their development. It is important that we have a dialogue on this with Iraq.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-43	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Mr Hillevi that no one wants to divide a society by ethnic regions, but, as the situation is in Iraq, it is a sectarian-dominated society. The alternative is a protected zone, so that people can survive in the region. I would like to say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: humanitarian and military aid – absolutely! The more we can do, the better. You've been down there meeting the groups, but it's not enough to meet them. It is about taking the next step and being a voice for these minority groups and making sure to try to work actively for what they want. They want a protected zone-- they know it's the only thing that can save them in the region. If you look at, for example, the Kurdish region, you see results and what it has meant for them over the last 15 to 20 years. They have been spared from genocide and abuse suffered by Christians and Yazidians. Madam President, I would like These minorities have been oppressed and persecuted for many decades, and the Christian national groups have been marginalised because of all sectarianism in society. A protected zone means greater security and security. In fact, it is the only thing that can cause Christians and other affected minorities to return to their territories and remain in Iraq. In order to restore trust in society and hope for a peaceful future in Iraq, it is important that the EU and the UN, together with the Iraqi Government and the military, take responsibility for securing and rebuilding the area that has been withdrawn and completing the liberation of the million-city of Mosul. Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister mentioned something about preventing crime. A protected zone may be an option to do this. In addition, the Foreign Minister mentioned in his speech on the Iraqis themselves the desire for local self-government and whether the government of Iraq would agree to it. As I understand it, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, you would be willing to support such a proposal for a protected zone or local self-government. That's how I understood it. That is precisely what we are actually discussing today: the people and the affected minorities want this. They have requested it from the European Parliament, which has reached a resolution decision. The Iraqi Constitution admits this. The question is: what is it that makes the Minister for Foreign Affairs not actively engage in bilateral relations with the Iraqi Government so that Christians in the plain of Nineves can have a protected zone so that they can live in peace and freedom in their own homeland?
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-51	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I believe that the ultimate objective now, in addition to getting rid of Daish, is that Iraq should develop in a peaceful direction and that democracy and human rights can simply be applied as much as possible. Christians are definitely a vulnerable minority. Daish, in particular, has put them through a lot. But even Yazidians have been in trouble. They are also an important minority to protect. They are not Christians but have a special religion. On the other hand, they are Kurds as a ethnic group. It is definitely important to highlight Christians as a vulnerable group, but I also think it is important not to forget other groups such as Yazidi and all other minorities that are more or less vulnerable and have been so for a long time. The objective must be peaceful coexistence. Zones of different kinds must be a last-hand solution. The first solution is that people should be able to live together in peace. If you have as many minorities as Iraq, you have to be able to live together. There are indeed many minorities, and some small groups that are very vulnerable need support. It's supposed to be the first-hand solution. We must not let go of the democratic trail; this must be done with the approval of the Iraqis in order for it to be good. Otherwise, there will be a setback. If you compare with the Kurds, you can see that it was a solution that has gone through, but it is clear that it also creates tension although it may be preferable in some cases – in extreme exceptional situations. I still believe that the first goal must be that everyone should be able to live together in peace. Peaced zones are a last resort solution. All minorities should be protected.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-55	Madam President, I would like One thing is certain: there is no quick and easy solution to all the problems that we see in Iraq. It must be a political process that is put in place, and it must take place with an international commitment: that the international community coordinates and acts together to support Iraq in this situation. This must be done through an inclusive political process, and it must contain all the elements that we have already talked about – from building a strong rule of law, defending human rights and working against corruption to ensuring that the whole process, decision-making processes and political processes become one that includes minorities. We continue to push in both the EU and the UN from the Swedish side for clear measures and positions against abuses and violations of humanitarian law and human rights. We pay particular attention to minority groups – women, children and other vulnerable groups and people. This also means that we believe that responsibility must be held to account and that victims of crime should receive redress. It is also a question of ensuring that Iraq has an economy that can cope with the big and difficult tasks ahead. It's about taking care of all the IDPs in Iraq. We already understood during our visit that it is a huge and difficult task. We support the role of the UN mission in Iraq and all efforts to support national reconciliation and the political process. Our view of this is that it is important to discuss the solutions to be found. But it must be the Iraqis themselves who say: This is the way forward. One must try to get along on what should be the solutions. I think the problem is the concreteness – that we do not really see how we could establish protected zones and what they would look like for all the different minorities that exist in Iraq today. Who will ensure safety so that zones do not in fact become death traps instead? These are the concrete questions that require an answer in order to be able to act. We need to prepare the construction, or rather the reconstruction, of Iraq. We need to prepare for peaceful coexistence between different groups and ensure that it becomes an inclusive political process. Of course, we have called on Iraq to join the ICC so that the abuses taking place in Iraq can be tried and punished and those responsible can be brought to justice. The court will then have the opportunity to investigate the data on genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. It should not matter what it is called; we have an obligation to act at all times. Sweden is one of the most faithful in terms of both giving political support and ensuring humanitarian assistance. On several occasions, we have drawn attention, for example, to the situation of the Yazidians and other minorities in Iraq. I personally have ensured that it is done in different ways through social media and through the efforts that we are doing both in the EU and in the UN.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-61	Madam President, I would like Our vision is the same: an open, democratic and free society. But we are talking about Iraq. We are not talking about Sweden or about other European Western countries. We are talking about Iraq. What is the alternative for these people to survive the violence they are subjected to on a daily basis? That's what we're discussing, Hillevi. What you're talking about may be 100 or 200 years from now, and we don't even know if that's possible. This is a sectarian and undemocratic society built on sectarianism. The Constitution is like that, and so on. Madam President, I would like There is one thing that surprises me. When a resolution decision is taken in the European Parliament, I know that it is not binding. It's a recommendation. But if not even the Member States are actively promoting the implementation of the resolutions – what is the point of the Swedish parliamentarians, in this case the Social Democrats in the European Parliament, supporting resolutions similar to this one? The Minister for Foreign Affairs at home is totally opposed to the decisions that are being made. That surprises me, and I would like an answer to that. The European Parliament has voted through a resolution on self-government for, among others, Christians, Yazidians and others in various areas in Iraq because it believes that today this is the only option for them to return and continue to live in their own home country. It is a matter of local self-government in consultation with and subject to the Baghdad Government. It is not a question of any way separating the country. Madam President, I would like In addition, the European Parliament calls on the European External Action Service, the Member States and international communities to actively support the resolution. The Secretary of State will soon be in the UN seat of the Security Council. In what ways will the Minister of Foreign Affairs operate in the UN Security Council and in relation to the Iraqi Government in order to make a protected zone a reality?
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-65	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Halef. I share your bitish despair over the situation in Iraq. I think it is important that we discuss all the ways forward. I can only repeat what I said before: There is no easy solution. Nor is there a concept that can immediately be put into or applied to Iraq and say: now we call this protected zones, and so they are. I wish there was something that set out how this is to be implemented. A government is also responsible for ensuring that things happen and that something practical can be realized on the ground that makes it easier for people. How are we gonna do that? I wish it had been in the resolution, which I believe otherwise includes hundreds of proposals and which is much more than just this proposal. I'm not saying at all that I'm totally repulsive. I believe that all good ideas must be tested to ensure that Iraq, and especially the vulnerable minorities there, has a future. But how will it be implemented and by whom? And can it be done if Iraq as a country does not say that this is the way forward and that they are in on it? Then how can you call it a protected zone? There is something that is not realistic about just creating a concept and then not being able to specify how it is to be achieved. I also take responsibility for ensuring that what we do can be realized and help create a better situation on the ground. There is a political trail, a humanitarian track and, indeed, a military track to fight down Daish, because they are the cause of so much suffering, not least for the minorities in Iraq.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-70	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked the Minister for Labour and Establishment how many jobs the delegation against segregation will create by 2020 and how much the delegation's work will cost. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. Breaking segregation requires long-term reforms, such as investment in jobs, education, housing, welfare and equality. The Government is therefore initiating a long-term reform programme that will run in 2017 – 2025. The aim is to lift socially vulnerable areas and break segregation mechanisms. The reform programme is divided into five areas of development: combating crime, reducing long-term unemployment, raising schools and pupils' performance, strengthening public services and reducing housing segregation and overcrowding, and supporting civil society and democratic values. A delegation will be set up to work on the reform programme, one of many parts of which is to work to create jobs. The Government proposes in the budget bill that the delegation be awarded SEK 50 million in 2017, SEK 75 million in 2018 and SEK 100 million annually thereafter. The Government prioritises that job growth should continue to be stimulated and that labour market matching should be improved. However, the labour market is a market, not a planned economy. This means that it is up to job seekers to apply for the job vacancies and up to employers to hire. The Government's task is to ensure the best possible conditions for matching the labour market so that jobseekers find work and employers get the right skills. In this, it is important, among other things, to have an active industrial policy that helps create more jobs. In the case of new arrivals, it is particularly important that the overall measures for reception and establishment work well. Through the proposals in the budget bill for 2017, the government opens up new opportunities for work for newcomers through, among other things, modern preparedness jobs in the state, a higher subsidy rate for newcomers with new start-ups and the extension of additional services to newcomers. In this way we create good conditions for growth and job creation in Sweden. Since the government took office, employment has also increased by 120 000 people, most of whom are born abroad.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-76	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Ibrahim Baylan, the Minister of Agriculture and Energy, for the answer to my interpellation. This is an answer with which I do not, in many parts, disagree with the intentions, but at the same time it is an answer which I do not think gives any specific answers to the questions I put in my interpellation. I am certainly told what is in the budget and what the government has set aside per year. However, it is very vague about what the idea is to do and how to do it, and there is nothing about how many people you calculate to get into work. Sweden has major challenges in the area of integration and migration. We have an alienation that is increasing in Sweden, and soon around 1 million people are at risk of being excluded. At the same time as Sweden is doing well at the moment in many ways – the companies are generally doing well and the jobs are increasing – we see that for those who are the longest from the labour market, the road is getting back ever longer and the number of people involved is increasing. Too many people are outside the labour market, and the start-up period is worryingly long. It was also before the widespread refugee crisis began that we have seen since the autumn of 2015 in particular. Madam President, I would like Today, only 25% of new arrivals have a full-time job after eight years in our country. Even in the group that has been here for 15 years, about half of the individuals are not working. It is good that the government has the ambition and desire for more people to get a job. At the same time, we can see that the government's policy and the proposals that are being made lead to the opposite. Moreover, in the area of jobs, it would be good if there were good and concrete proposals for more people to get to work. The employment rate in the Parliamentary Labour Market Committee is currently very low. We simply do not have meetings. We are a Socialist chairman of the committee and a Socialist Minister for Labour, but there are no proposals. In the election campaign, the government widely stated that Sve Rige would have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. It is a good thing that we want low unemployment, but it was a proposal that was condemned by all serious assessors at the time. The only ones who actually said that it would be possible to achieve were the Social Democrats, which has then been highlighted in many discussions and debates, not least by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and Minister for Employment Ylva Johansson. There has been nothing wrong with the confidence of the social democrats and the government. But, Madam President, let us get to the point of politics and reality. The election campaign promised 32 000 trainee jobs. 254 it's become. 20 000 additional posts were promised, and it has become 1 479. A nabb track was created into the labour market for new arrivals. 2 400 people have participated there, but a total of 58 000 people are enrolled in the establishment and there will be more. We have an alienation of nearly 1 million individuals, and we combine the government's total dilapidation and efforts and the results of these will be about 4 000 people out of 1 million. However, the labour market is a market, not a market economy, says the Minister. This means that it is up to job seekers to apply for the job vacancies one and up to the employers to employ. Here I agree, and every cent of me or my party The Moderates have ever been in favour of planning economy or collaborated with such forces and parties. At the same time, we see that the government wants to create 5 000 state preparedness jobs for people who are far from the labour market. We need more simple jobs. Why doesn't the government make sure that more simple jobs come out on the whole market? I know Social Democratic LO doesn't like simple jobs, but more of them would be good. It's time for the government to start delivering and start breaking the alienation. I am therefore asking the Minister again: what is the proposal for the delegation to create jobs more concretely, and how many are the minister expecting to get to work through the government's efforts?
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-88	Madam President, I would like Sometimes I don't really understand the criticism. There has been a lot of criticism of the fact that you do not have a Minister for Integration and do not talk about integration. Now that you have such a great deal of work in this particular area, there will be criticism of it. I think it's a little strange. It is impossible to say exactly how many jobs this will lead to. If you're going to do that, you need to have a crystal ball to sift into the future. I can't. On the other hand, it is clear that the more you invest in a policy, the more you have the chance to succeed when you focus. What is also good is that a number of different policy areas are included in this. It is not just about jobs, although it is a very central issue, but it is also about education, the housing situation, people in so-called exclusion areas and how to invest in those areas so that the people there do not feel that they are coming in the last place, which some feel they are doing. The Minister has replied in detail to what this is all about. I find it exciting that you have these great visions of how to solve the problem and that you can use the toolbox in several different policy areas where it is needed. I think one important thing is to look at good examples. In Malmö, for example, where I come from, students from schools in different residential areas were mixed, both those where the parents were well educated and had relatively good incomes and those where many parents had low incomes and many were unemployed. The effect was that the students who came from the affected areas raised their grades significantly. So there were substantial improvements. However, this did not lead to lower grades and results for those students who attended the same school but who came from areas where the parents are well educated. It's very interesting. And that suggests that it's good to break the segregation. Much of this is based on housing segregation, because it is natural for children to attend preschools and schools near homes. Then we risk having such an effect that students who come from homes with well-educated parents go by themselves and the others go by themselves. It particularly affects students who come from areas with many poor or unemployed parents. Breaking it is an example of what you could do. In Malmö we have a huge challenge. We really have not solved the problems, but we have a great deal to do. But I think it is important to focus on positive examples and see if you can perhaps apply them in more places, in order to have a positive development. Overcrowding, as mentioned, also makes it difficult to do homework. For example, if two families live in an apartment, it may be difficult to be left alone. And if you don't pass school, there's a greater risk of becoming unemployed. Then, in turn, there is a greater risk of poverty, ill health, in the worst cases even getting into addiction, crime and premature death. It is possible to see clear links of this kind. It starts early. That is why we should give all children, even when they are small, the best conditions. It is good that the government works long-term. There is no quick fix, which you can use to solve it overnight. As far as unemployment is concerned, we can also look at where there is a need for people. Many vacancies are not being filled today because people with the right skills are not being found. I believe that many young people and the unemployed could receive training in these areas in order to take those jobs. It's not just about simple jobs, as we're talking about.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-98	Madam President, I would like The situation is serious. We see a development that has been going on for a long time, and it is going the wrong way. Developments must be broken, for a number of reasons. One reason is that we as a society should stay together. One of the finest things about the Swedish model is that we want children born and living in this country to have equal opportunities to create a good life. It's good, not just for those children or those people, but for our whole society. I think we all, regardless of government-- we must have some humility here-- have made the mistake in the past of believing that there is a simple solution to this. If we just take that measure – a tax reduction here, an education, an effort or a project there – we will solve the challenges. There has been nothing wrong with the ambitions. I doubt either the previous moderate-led government or previous Social Democratic governments. But we must learn from the mistakes that have been made. One of them has been just looking for a solution. There's no such thing. There are no simple solutions. Another mistake has been the short-sightedness of the efforts, the populist elements. That is why the government appoints this delegation, so that it can work long-term. I wish we could do it together, Christian Holm Barenfeld. I believe that there is a point in finding cross-block cooperation to tackle these major challenges. If every new government that comes changes politics time after time, it becomes short-sighted. It's going to be populistic. Above all, it becomes impotent. Nothing's happening. It won't be effective. I have added the dee gation which will be started in 2017. It will work with a large number of questions, precisely because there is no single solution to work with. It is about everything from getting order and order, to fighting crime, to getting more police officers to making sure that penalties and other things so that there is no doubt about how to behave or not. It is about breaking long-term unemployment. We have a situation today where more and more people in Sweden are working – thank God. We also see people born abroad getting into work. That's good. But that's not enough. We must continue that work. Madam President, I would like Nor do I believe that, in the long term, it is possible to create an equal society if we have a school system where the differences increase year after year. They did so during the eight years that the Moderates led the government of that country. We must make sure that we invest and give all young people a good start in life. We must ensure that public services are strengthened and housing segregation reduced by building new homes. It's also happening, at record speed right now. We must also ensure that we support civil society and always stand up for democratic values, no matter where in our country this is. This is what the delegation should be working on. The government is inspired by taking on all these difficult challenges. However, Christian Holm Barenfeld's first post gives you the feeling that the Moderates seem to be mostly influenced by finding fault with the Social Democrats. We can add to the record that we're not perfect. But we have an ambition. And we will try to do everything at our disposal, in the form of tools, to tackle the challenges. I also extend a hand to the Moderates: let's do it together, on a number of points! I think it would be good to have such long-termism and stability.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-110	Madam President, I would like I think it is good to focus on these issues. They're important. In fact, I believe that the Government and I agree on that. Our solutions are somewhat different. But, as I said, the situation is serious. Much is going the wrong way, and it must be broken. When we in the Moderates go through and rework our policies, of course, we adapt it to the time that is now, and we have been self-critical when we look back. We should have done more during our government period in terms of integration and our migration policy. At the same time, we have concrete proposals in many areas on how to increase jobs and how to lower thresholds into the labour market for those who are far from it. I would like to see broad solutions. I'd love to see outstretched hands. But the problem is that the government's extended hands usually mean that we should buy proposals that lie. Then maybe it's not quite that topical. We want concrete proposals that lead to more jobs. It is exciting with great visions, as Hillevi Larsson says. It's good to have visions, isn't it? But it is also good if there are concrete proposals that lead to real action. When it comes to integration, I rarely use Malmö as an example. It is a municipality that has been governed by Hillevi Larsson and her friends for a long time and has not delivered very good results in the area of integration. This is a responsibility that we all have, as the Minister says. At the same time, we see that a great many Swedes are doing well – for companies and for many of those close to the labour market. But it is those who are far removed from the labour market who have the most difficulty. It will then be even more difficult to understand why we do not want to put forward concrete proposals that would lead to more simple jobs. For example, proposals are being made for 5 000 state preparedness jobs. I mentioned earlier that 32,000 trainee jobs were promised, and it was 254. 20 000 additional posts have been promised, and it was not even 1 500. Now they promise 5,000 standby jobs. Let's see what it's gonna be. Even if all this were to be done, even if the government were to succeed in delivering what it promised in the electoral movement, it would be perhaps 50 000 jobs; it is 1 million who are outside the labour market. And even if the government succeeds in delivering the standby jobs, we're not even going to get into 10,000 jobs at the moment. At the same time, RUT and ROT are weakened, which are perhaps some of the most important elements for people to get their first job and enter the labour market and then be able to make a career. That is where the concrete results are seen. I would very much like to deal at each committee meeting with concrete proposals from the government that lead to more jobs. But now it is all-time-high at suspended committee meetings because the government is not delivering. With regard to the delegation for work and those jobs, will I interpret it as knowing how much the delegation's work will cost, but not what it will deliver?
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-121	Madam President, I would like It is easy to bury itself in such a way that it becomes completely black at night, but we must nevertheless note that employment is increasing. There will be more jobs in Sweden. We have the highest employment rate across the EU in terms of the proportion of the working-age population working. That's a good thing. But, of course, we should not settle down with it; unemployment is our main objective and it should be down as far as possible. It is also interesting to look at the impact of the policy pursued. It's moving in the right direction, but we definitely need to accelerate the speed. However, everything that has been done so far is not bad, but it has actually led to a reduction in unemployment. Many of the jobs have also gone to people with immigrant backgrounds, not least to new arrivals. It is also important that groups are not lumped together. I think that's what's a big problem. We should all be self-critical because over the years you have had a view of certain groups that means that they will not make it. It has also been seen that children of the unemployed or of poor families will not meet the targets. The same applies to children cared for. There has been a low perception of what these children are capable of, which often turns out to be completely wrong. They have the same intelligence as other children, and they need stimulation, someone who believes in them. There are positive examples that can be found. If you invest in all children in Sweden from an early age you can see the results. There are more people who pass their education and there are more who get jobs. That's how we can break the segregation in the long term. We must evaluate everything that is being done, but we must have offensive measures. I think the government is very clear about which areas to work with. Then, of course, the delegation itself has to come up with something concrete. That is the purpose of the whole thing.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-126	Madam President, I would like I'll start with something unusual. I'll start by quoting Albert Einstein. He once said, "The definition of madness is to do the same thing again and again and expect other results." It is wise words that should be listened to. If you try the same method over and over again and it turns out that it does not work, perhaps you should approach a challenge with a great measure of humility and note that perhaps it is time to try something else. Over the years, various governments have started different projects – some good ones, some less good ones. The projects have been going on for as long as the money has been sufficient, then the projects have been completed, regardless of the actual results. For eight years with bourgeois government, we tried the great tool, tax cuts. That is how it sounded during the 2006 election campaign from the then moderate leader. There was a million in alienation that you had to take on. Then the country was led for eight years, and each year there was a new major tax cut that would solve all these challenges. Eight years later we noticed that unemployment was higher, segregation had increased and exclusion was greater. I do not doubt the ambitions of the Moderates. On the contrary, I would like to believe that the vast majority in this House are in favour. But it must also be taken into account that if you have tried a method over and over again in 16 years' budgets and it turns out that it does not work, then maybe it is time to reconsider. It is against this background that I am happy to invite you to cooperate and cooperate. We need to work broadly to increase jobs. I am pleased that more and more people have work to do, but I am not satisfied. Too many people don't. I am pleased that very many of the new jobs go to people who have been unemployed, but I am not satisfied. Too many people don't have a job to go to. I am pleased that more and more young people have a job to go to, but I am not satisfied. Too many people have no work to go to. It is against this background that work is an important part of the agenda of this delegation and of this government. But that is not enough either. We must ensure that these suburbs are sorted out, that there are more police officers, that crimes are prosecuted. We have to make sure that the school results are reversed. We cannot continue to have schools which, year after year, have 50% eligibility for upper secondary school, especially as we know that upper secondary education is a basic requirement today to get a job, no matter what you do with taxes. We must ensure that civil society is strengthened and that democratic values always permeate what we do. We must ensure that there is more housing so that we can break the segregation of homes. We must do all this. It won't last a night. Had it been such simple solutions, Christian Holm Barenfeld, then they would have already been implemented by the government you represent or the current government or governments before. Here we need to be determined and ambitious, preferably as far across the block line as possible, in order to address these challenges. I am convinced that it will be possible, but it will not go overnight. And it will definitely not go with a simple solution. If such an alexander were to exist, then it would already have been done.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-140	Madam President, I would like I do not think there is an easy solution either. Politics is not always easy, but even in certain situations it can be very difficult. Employment is increasing, that is good. Jobs are getting more, that's good. But they often do not benefit those furthest from the labour market. Yes, it is true that the Alliance reduced taxes. The major tax reductions were five job tax deductions. It was the tax cuts that allowed the worker to keep about $1,500 more in his wallet each month. The impact was particularly great for those who had small income and average income. The current government was against each of these five tax cuts, but realizes in government that it would be devastating to remove them, so you keep them. It's important to say. In the first year, the new start jobs introduced by the Alliance led to more people getting into work than all the current government's work efforts have done. We introduced labour market training courses that could well have been adjusted, but they were targeted at those furthest from the labour market. Now we are going to invest in them closer to the labour market. It's actually a good thing, but the assessment from investigators is that they'd get a job anyway. It now spends SEK 1.8 billion on labour market training. The employment services themselves and IFAU have concluded that these courses have no effect. You want broad solutions, but you are working with the Left Party, among other things, which may not quite agree that the labour market is a market and not a planned economy. The Left Party wants to make every effort to limit such effective reforms as the RUT reform. It led to a lot of people getting their first job in Sweden and their first job in life. We want to invest more in this and more in school than the government does. But you are welcome to take part in these efforts. Thank you very much for your answer and thank you for the debate.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-149	Madam President, I would like Thank you, myself, this is an urgent matter. This applies not least to the possibilities of getting a job. I myself remember what it was like to be new in Sweden. It did a lot for my life that Mom and Dad had a job to go to. First, it created role models at close range. Second, as a parent, you have a completely different pride when you can say, "I'm going to work. I can support my family. In addition, you can take responsibility for your children in a completely different way. It is clear that this is important, and that is why the government puts so much emphasis on it. Madam President, I would like Then I do not really understand Christian Holm Barenfeld's complaint that we are cooperating with the Left Party on the budget. This is, in fact, an absolute requirement of the Moderate Management. Are you saying that the Moderate Management is making mistakes that make this requirement for us to be able to rule the country with a budget that is voted through in the Riksdag, then you must resolve it with the Moderate Management. I do not quite understand this complaint. Madam President, I would like These are urgent and important issues. These are difficult issues, but we have to deal with them for all reasons: for reasons of fairness, for reasons of development– for this society can develop and strengthen further, but then we also have to take care of all the people who live here. I also think that it is good for all of us if we manage to break this vicious spiral that makes young people too easily gang up and engage in nonsense and crime. It's not good for them or for anyone else. That's why the government is taking a strong stance. That is why we want long-term efforts. Again, I would also like to see cooperation across the block, so that we can also tackle this in a long-term and good way.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-154	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration if he intends to take any initiatives to strengthen the legal protection of police dogs and police horses. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. It is not uncommon for police dogs and other service dogs to be subjected to violence in the ministry and to injuries. There are also cases of violence against police officers on horseback and thus, at least indirectly, against the horses. This, of course, is not acceptable. Service dogs and police horses are legally regarded as property, and violence against them is essentially regarded as vandalism. In some cases, the violence directed against animals may also be to be judged as cruelty to animals. The government has already announced a review of the penalties for attacks on bluelight personnel and other socially beneficial functions. In connection with this, it is natural to also look at whether there is a need for reinforced protection even for police cars, other emergency vehicles, service dogs and police horses. The government has therefore already taken the initiative to look at the criminal law protection of service dogs and police horses. The investigation will be completed this autumn.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-158	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is gratifying that the Minister takes the weak legal protection of service dogs and service horses seriously. However, I cannot read on the government's website that the revision of criminal law also concerns the weak legal protection of these service animals. That is what the Minister refers to in his reply. Since there is no mention of police dogs and horses in the review, there may be an addition to an underlying annex that cannot be read to the government.se. It would be desirable if the Minister could clarify the directives for the revision. I took a quote from the government's website regarding the revision of the Criminal Code: There it may be included. Among other things, consideration should be given to whether attacks on occupational groups responsible for ensuring safety, life and health should be seen as particularly serious. I therefore hope that this will indeed be included in the review. The reason for my interpellation is the weak rule of law that service dogs and service horses have in Sweden. There are too many cases where these, the official's four-legged colleagues and friends, have been attacked and badly injured by the perpetrators, not infrequently without the penalty for the honorary. Several dog drivers and customs and guarding staff have brought the problem to my attention, and I have written two motions on the subject. Service dogs and service horses are considered property, just as the Minister says in the answer. This means that if a person deliberately harms the animal, it is considered to be damage to property, much like dangling on a garage door or kicking on a fence. The offence very rarely gives rise to severe sanctions, but often very modest sanctions, if it causes any sanctions at all. Most cases are closed down or consumed by other crimes. It should be noted that a service dog's training takes several years, at a cost of 200 000 – 300 000 kronor. So the issue is not just an emotional reaction to animal cruelty, but also money. Today, approximately 400 police dogs and 60 police horses work in Sweden. To this you should add the dogs that work for for example Tullverket, the Prison Service, the Swedish Armed Forces or in guarding service. In confrontations with perpetrators, dogs are subjected to varying degrees of violence, such as stabbing with a screwdriver or a knife, kicking and beating, and so on. At riots, dogs and horses are sometimes hit by stones and bottles and sheep were thrown at them. Violence against civil servants is the offence of deliberately harming a police officer or other person subject to enhanced legal protection. On the other hand, if someone deliberately harms a police dog, the offence becomes only vandalism, since dogs are counted as property. In other words, the animals that work daily to protect us or to search for us are not very well protected themselves, and it seems that violence against police dogs and horses is becoming more common and coarser.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-165	Madam President, I would like Krister Hammarbergh has asked me whether I share the view that investigative crimes should be investigated by the police and what measures I intend to take in relation to the Police Authority in order for this to happen. He has also asked me how I intend to act in order to improve feedback to victims and to ensure that the police always explain what measures have been taken in a case and provide information on the reasons why a case is closed. Chapter 23 of the Prosecution Code provides for preliminary investigations to be initiated if there is reason to believe that an offence under public prosecution has been committed. It is also stated that a preliminary investigation does not need to be initiated if it is clear that the offence cannot be investigated. So the law says that investigated crimes should be investigated. The government has no plans for any changes in this respect. However, the development of the rest of the world, with increasingly complex and cybercrime, increased migration and internationalisation and increased activity of organised crime, presents major resource and skills challenges to the police. The main purpose of the reorganisation of the police to an authority on 1 January 2015 was to strengthen the police's ability to fight crime. The Police Authority has now taken a large number of national decisions aimed at a more uniform and effective investigation work and increased prosecution. In connection with this, a review of the police's procedures for feedback to plaintiffs is also carried out. I will closely monitor the work of the Agency in implementing these decisions. It is also important that the Police Authority is given the opportunity to increase its human resources. The Government has therefore proposed in the budget proposal a contribution to the agency of a total of just over SEK 2 billion during the period 2017– 2020.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-169	Madam President, I would like I'll thank you most of all for your answer. Unless the quality of the answers to written questions increases, the Government will have to devote a great deal of time in this House to follow-up interpellations. You're going to die! A pretty young guy pulls out a gun and presses the pipe against an older man. He feels humiliated. This happened last summer in Malmö. The husband manages to get to his car with his wife. He's calling 911, and the police are on the scene fast. You can't find the guys, but eventually you get a trail and will do a photo confrontation before midsummer. The next day, the investigator calls back. You don't have time for midsummer. It's vacation. Although the victim tries to get a hold of the investigator many times, it will be two months before the police call again. Finally, the investigator calls and explains that he's been on vacation. The next day the letter comes from the police: The case is closed. Action taken has not led to suspicion of the crime. Further investigation cannot be assumed to change that. This is a letter that victims very often encounter. Perhaps this has been the case for too long. It has often concerned large-scale crimes, such as housing offences, but also property crimes. Many gas station owners have been frustrated to note that although they have image recordings of those who have slipped and regularly run away, the police do not investigate the crimes. Instead, you get the letter: The matter is closed. Action taken has not led to suspicion of the crime. What is striking about these crimes is the fact that they are subject to investigation and should be investigated. It's possible to move on. Today, however, we all too often come across the picture that not all the measures that could be taken are actually being taken. Even the simplest measures are not taken. This is a problem, of course, for the victim. We should ensure that those who systematically engage in crime are prosecuted. But if the police don't do their job, they'll never be prosecuted. What seems to have happened in recent times, and which makes it all the more frightening, is that even violent crimes – serious crimes such as the death threat I mentioned or rape – have not led to further action by the police, even if you had evidence and had DNA. It is an unsustainable situation, and it must change. That's why I've put this interpellation to the Government about whether or not to investigate possible crimes. I am fully aware that the police have had a difficult situation during the migration crisis. But that is not an explanation of why the investigating part of the police has not taken these measures. Most importantly, it is the intervention side of the police that has had to put in the resources. I would like to put the question once again to the Government: Should investigative crimes be investigated? If he shares the picture that I have, namely that this is too much not done, what does the Government want to do about it?
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-178	Madam President, I would like First to the main issue: investigated crimes are to be investigated. It is the legislation with which Parliament has adopted crystal clear. Krister Hammarbergh is just as clear, and I'm as crystal clear. It is not acceptable for investigations where there is evidence that could link an offender to a particular crime to be closed down. I do not wish to comment on individual cases, but it is very doubtful whether this was really the case with Krister Hammarbergh, or whether it was the case that no one had actually been found to do the photo-confrontation, which is the police version of what has happened. Krister Hammarbergh expresses another version of what has happened. No matter what has happened in this or other individual cases, investigated crimes will be investigated. It is up to me, Krister Hammarbergh and everyone else to make sure that the police have the resources to do so, have the skills to do it and have a way of working that makes it happen. Then there can always be mistakes at some point in the margin. However, the basis must be that investigative crimes should be investigated, so that the guilty can be put behind bars or that a suspect can possibly be freed from suspicion.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-181	Madam President, I would like I had almost expected the Government to take up the ongoing reorganisation. It would have been quite natural, for it has undeniably left its mark on police activity, not least because the local management resources have not been in place for far too long. Obviously, the signals from the government to the chief of police about making this clear must have been unclear. I share the Government's assessment – more resources are needed for the police, both financially and personally. A great deal of human resources will be required. That is why we propose about 1 billion more than the government does. I am a little concerned about the ability of the police to cope financially with the obligations that are now being undertaken. The Government's budget base includes a forecast surplus of SEK 700 million. We already know that a few hundred million are missing to cover that part. So I am concerned about resources, and I share the view that there should be more. Back to the issue of investigative crimes. We from the committee have tried to follow the various police regions fairly closely during the reorganisation. A clear message came from one of the regions when the former Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask participated. It was: Shouldn't you ask about investigative crimes and how it goes with the crime resolution now, as you always did before? That's good. Now no one seems interested anymore. I think we need to start getting a focus back on having clear targets for what the police are going to be able to do and trying to get follow-up on whether they can do it. We in Sweden have had a debate and a discussion where targets for the police quite condescendingly many times have been called stick hunting. I think it is important for every activity that there are clear objectives and that it is possible to assess whether they have been achieved. Feedback to victims and investigation of investigative offences are a clear part of this. My question to the Government is once again: what does the Government want to do in concrete terms to ensure that all these investigative crimes are investigated, which we agree on is to be done?
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-186	Madam President, I would like Politics is an exciting art, and it has been an exciting day for me. Just before I went to Parliament to debate with Krister Hammarbergh, I was interviewed in Sydsvenskan. The police union in Region South accuses me that the reorganisation and the management appointments have gone too fast. You haven't had a chance. Then I come here to Parliament and am accused by Krister Hammarbergh that the reorganisation and management appointments have gone too slow. The future will tell well whether it is Krister Hammarbergh or the police union that is right in this regard, or if it is possible that the executive appointments and reorganisation have been made according to the timetable that I, Krister Hammarbergh and the police union have agreed on. I leave it to the viewer and the future to decide. I think you should be careful to mix pin hunting and targets for the police. We're supposed to have only goals. We will be able to compare how a certain form of police activity is conducted in different parts of the country. There's a deal. However, I do not believe that the quantitative targets that existed during the stick hunt were productive. They led to what is called suboptimization in organizational language. Differently, the wrong things were done. Instead of investigating crimes, they stood and made alcoblos where people were under the influence of alcohol on a very small scale, to take a clear example. The objective of the police should, of course, be, on a general level, to reduce crime and to make citizens more secure. These are the most important targets for the police. Then comes the cases of investigating the crimes. I believe that we must be able to compare this at local police level. Do People Get Safer? Reduces or Increases Crime? How do you investigate different types of crimes? How well do you do that? Then, in addition to barking at those who fail in the way that Krister Hammarbergh describes, we can also reward what works and those who are significantly above the average. How is it that Uppsala has four five times better clearance percentage than some parts of Skåne? How is it that some parts of the country are very good at investigating crimes against children? How is it that some parts of the North Region feel that they have more policemen, while others feel that they have fewer police officers, even though they have the same allocation of resources? These are questions to which I believe a good follow-up of targets and results can provide answers. I will contribute to this in the forthcoming work on police targets and results follow-up.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-190	Madam President, I would like Now I want to sort it out. It is not I who claim that it has taken a little too long to ensure that the local daily management at the bottom is in place, but it is Statskontoret that has claimed it. When we last spoke about this in the Committee on Justice, the Minister shared Statskontoret's view, as far as I remember. It is therefore not my opinion; it is Statskontoret's and the Government's, if he has not changed. It is, of course, strange and bad that we have different results in different parts of the country, regardless of resources. That was one reason why we took the initiative to reorganize the police. Why have Norrbotten, Västerbotten and Halland always had high results with relatively small resources per capita, and why has Stockholm always had such poor results, despite the by far highest police density in the country? It was noted that regardless of which police authority was compared, the resources were not related to the results. I'm glad the Prime Minister wants a goal only. Let's stop pin hunting. We fully agree that bad targets are bad; we should not have them. We're supposed to have good goals. But it must be possible to monitor the results of the police. We need better feedback to the victims, and we need fewer letters stating that the case is closed, even though it would not have to be. What may cause me concern today, Madam President, is perhaps that the Government seems to be quite satisfied with the situation and would like to focus on what is working well. But politics often works so that we want to improve what is bad; what works, it works.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-194	Madam President, I would like No, I'm not happy with the situation. The reorganisation has not produced enough results that we are entitled to expect. We must have more police officers closer to the citizens, where they are most needed: in the socially vulnerable areas. We are likely to see further falling results, but then the results will have to start to rise. Just as Krister Hammarbergh expresses, there is no direct relationship between resources and results, which indicates that there is much room for improvement even within the framework of the budget previously held. I and Krister Hammarbergh agree that victims of crime deserve better feedback and that the goal of reorganisation, in addition to more police officers closer to the citizens, is better results. We also agree that, although much can be done within the framework of current resources, more resources must also be provided for the police. This government has contributed over SEK 2 billion over the next few years. However, it is not so much worth if we do not at the same time monitor the achievement of goals in the way that Krister Hammarbergh expresses. I am convinced that this is neither the first nor the last debate we have on police compliance. I hope to be more satisfied on future occasions, because now I am not satisfied.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-198	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me about my assessment of our readiness to deal with people returning from travel to conflict areas for terrorist purposes. Haddad further wonders whether I and the government share the view that there is a need for clearer guidance for municipal drop-outs and whether I and the government will heed the demands of the Liberals to bring forward the work of legislating to criminalise all forms of participation in an armed conflict in support of such terrorist organisations. Madam President, I would like It is totally unacceptable for Swedes to travel to conflict areas and to fight for terrorist organisations. Anyone involved in the brutal terror will be prosecuted and punished. On the initiative of this government, a special responsibility for terrorist travel has been introduced. Proposals have now also been added to a new penal provision on participation in armed conflict in support of a terrorist organisation. All referrals have recently been received. The work on the proposals is, of course, a high priority of the government. In the 2017 budget bill, the government has proposed that the Swedish Security Service should contribute SEK 650 million over the next few years to enable the agency to intensify its work against terrorism and returnees. The Security Service is also further developing its work to address the threat that some returnees are deemed to pose. Those who commit crimes should be prosecuted, but it is also important that we can help those who want to leave violent extremist groups. The national coordinator against violent extremism has developed a knowledge overview on support for individuals who want to leave violent extremism. Through this, both municipalities and authorities have been given tools and guidelines to develop their ability to help these individuals.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-202	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. The Liberals have repeatedly asked questions in this House about how Sweden should deal with the fact that over 140 people who have obviously participated in battle for, among other things, the Islamic State have also returned to Sweden. Only in April this year, the government gave a mission to the Swedish Security Service regarding how the agency should intensify its work on returnees. We have also supplemented our interpellation with the fact that there is a debate, nationally and not least municipally, about how Lund, Malmö or Stockholm will handle so-called IS-returners. Also one of the most prominent experts, Peder Hyllengren at the Swedish Defence University, has gone out and commented on the debate and said that there is great uncertainty and ambiguity. We have also again noted that only two of these returnees have been convicted in Sweden for participation in IS barbaric terrorism. This is totally unacceptable. I came to the House today with great confidence to hear the Government's response on our preparedness. It is in approximately one sense that Säpo has been commissioned to intensify the work and that a number of millions will be allocated for 2017 – 2020, but in practice it is 80 million in next year's budget. This is what Parliament will decide later in the winter. But I still want to be told, hopefully today, Madam President. How does Sapo's preparedness look like? Is the Home Secretary happy with the work of the Security Service? They delivered a material to the government on 31 May – what does it say in those documents, which can actually be passed on to the legislator? We cannot sit in a room negotiating access to terrorists, prosecuting them, prosecuting them and punishing them when there are two who have been convicted by those who have come back, Anders Ygeman. Why is it that the Swedish Security Police, for which you are responsible as Minister of Government, says that 146 have come back and that still has not led to more people being both prosecuted and convicted? Two of them! The Minister for the Interior also says that the work on criminalising support for terrorist organisations and associations abroad is being prepared. I have articles from 2014 by the then opposition party Social Democrats, and I have seen articles from June 2016 about criminalising associations and fighting abroad. But I also have with me the government's bill list, and there are no proposals to return to Parliament this winter, despite everything that has happened in our surrounding world.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-208	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad's tone is disproportionate to what the alliance government and Roger Haddad managed to achieve. Despite eight years of power, it was not possible to criminalise terrorist war trips, let alone associate itself with terrorist organisations. When Roger Haddad's party left the government, not a single municipality had a coordinator against violent extremism. Today, all municipalities have such a coordinator. When Roger Haddad's party left the government, not a single municipality had an action plan against violent extremism. Today, all major municipalities have it. When Roger Haddad's party left the government, 176 000 valid Swedish passports were in the world. Every year when Roger Haddad's party was in the government, the number of valid passports lost increased. Today they are declining. Today, terrorist war travel is criminalised. The tone expressed by Roger Haddad is disproportionate to what the Liberals managed to achieve in government. Roger Haddad asks if I'm happy with the work of the Security Service. The answer to the question is unequivocally yes. I think the Swedish Security Service is doing a good job of protecting us and the Swedish people. When it comes to the prosecution of crimes, we have the order that Sweden is a rule of law. This means that courts must decide whether a person is guilty or innocent of a crime and that every Swedish citizen is innocent until proven guilty. It is a principle which, as far as I understand it, the Liberals have so far held high and which they still support. It is not the Security Service or the Home Affairs Minister who decides whether someone is guilty of crime or not, but courts do. Although the government has tightened up its legislation, terrorist war crimes are hard to prove. The reason is that the crime has occurred thousands of miles from Sweden, where the Swedish or other police are not in place because it is precisely a terror war site. It is difficult to secure evidence against any suspected perpetrators. And it is very difficult to get evidence that can be examined in a Swedish court. Despite this, the government and the Security Service are putting a great deal of resources into being able to lead this kind of crime into evidence. To the extent that it is not possible to prove a crime but believes that there is still a risk or danger, the person concerned will be placed under supervision under the legislation in force in that case. To the extent that someone is prepared to leave the criminal and destructive environment and cannot be suspected of crime or has served the sentence for a crime for which they have been convicted, we are, of course, prepared to ensure that people can get help out of it. That's why the government has invested money in getting people to drop out of these criminal environments. Despite Roger Haddad's tone, I believe that the Liberals have made a constructive contribution to the fight against Swedish terrorism, and I hope that the Liberals and Roger Haddad will continue to do so.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-220	Madam President, I would like This debate is not about the National Coordinator against violent extremism, but it was then the People's Party that appointed the National Coordinator against violent extremism in the government. The government's response refers to it as one of the most important measures in crime prevention. So it was the Minister of the People's Party who presented this initiative. The work has led to many municipalities having action plans against violence's affirming extremism. Anders Ygeman says that most large municipalities have such action plans, but that is unfortunately wrong. I heard an element from Ekot where the Minister of the Interior said a little carelessly that all municipalities have coordinators. But there are no local coordinators against violent extremism – not even in municipalities like Västerås. There's a security officer who's going to meet with Säpo and the police for a few hours a week to review the situation. Such a person cannot be counted as a local coordinator against violence's affirming extremism. What the minister said about the passports is not the government's credit either. The Alliance and the People's Party set up the investigation, and this has nothing to do with the terrorism package. You only had to do this, which we have also supported. There have also been motions in Parliament. It was not the Social Democrats who set up the investigation to access the misuse of Swedish passports. The floor is almost not even in the report that Parliament has decided on. On the other hand, the Liberals were in favour of a proposal to develop certain paragraphs in order to make it even easier to withdraw passports for suspected terrorists. However, this debate is about the security police's readiness. As a legislator and member of the Committee on Justice, I think that the government must be able to tell us what was on the mission to which the Minister is returning. How should you intensify your work with regard to IS-returners? How is it that the Government at the end of this very short interpellation response says that the National Coordinator has developed tools and guidelines for municipalities to develop the ability to help these individuals, i.e. IS-returners? Peder Hyllengren, one of the government's experts at the Swedish Defence University, saw the municipalities' handling and is asking for a national guideline on these issues. It is remarkable that the Swedish Defence University, which is a supplier to the government of many of these documents, is asking for something. I thought this was important to follow up, and I would like to hear from the Minister for the Interior if this is in place. Has the National Coordinator been tasked with developing a national guideline for municipalities? This applies not only to the municipalities, but also to the county councils, authorities, the police and other actors who meet people who may be potential risks in society. I have not touched on it, but Anders Ygeman knows that we have said that it should be mandatory to meet with Säpo at home and that we have also made other proposals. In addition, in our budget, we have doubled the budget allocated to the prosecutor's office for more people to be investigated. On none of these points the government has met us.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-227	Madam President, I would like It is true that the government has not proposed an increase in the grant to the Prosecutor's Office. The reason for this is simple: The Prosecution Authority goes with surplus and has a budget saving that can be used. Nor has the Authority requested any increase in appropriations. When it comes to the assignment to Säpo and what the government can explain in the Riksdag, a public edition is available to the members of the Riksdag. Things in the mission that could damage national security are masked. I will not be able to explain in Parliament's pulpit things that could threaten national security. I think Roger Haddad will understand that if he thinks about it. Roger Haddad further asks me why a researcher at the Swedish Defence University claims otherwise than what the government here expresses. I think that question will have to be answered by Roger Haddad himself. I give answers on what is the opinion of the government and the authority. What Roger Haddad thinks some researcher at the Swedish Defence University has said, he has to sort it out on his own. It becomes almost parody when Roger Haddad talks about the previous government's breakdown with the passports. He says of the government's proposal that the word affronted terrorism is almost not in the report that Parliament has considered. Can Roger Haddad figure out what he's talking about? It's a little hard for me to do that. However, I can say something about stopping the misuse of passports. We no longer have 176 000 Swedish passports. This is an important part of combating terrorism and terrorist travel. It is also an important part of the fact that the people who have gone from Sweden cannot come back under false identity and thus try to avoid punishment.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-232	Madam President, I would like Anders Ygeman has not only failed with the Swedish police and the appointment of Chief Police Officer Dan Eliasson but also with the handling of IS-returners. Anders Ygeman has presented to the Riksdag a single bill on terrorism, and it was about so-called terrorist trips. This was adopted by the Parliament at the request and request of the UN Security Council. Then there has not been a single proposal to the Swedish Parliament and the Committee on Justice on how to tighten up the legislation to get to grips with and prosecute more terrorists. Yes, we were the ones who took action against the misuse of passports, but that is not what this debate is about. There was nothing about terrorism in the passport report. That is why we called for legislation to be tightened up. The Social Democrats voted 'no' in this House. But there is an announcement from a majority in the Swedish parliament against Anders Ygeman's party and the Green Party, who disagree. We've sent that announcement to the government. With regard to the budget and Swedish preparedness, which is at the heart of this interpellation, I am very disappointed. I am not told what Swedish preparedness looks like, even though the government was slow. As late as April this year, Säpo was commissioned to step up the work. This was true despite the events in Brussels and Paris and other tragic events. We're not getting any feedback. I also understand that the government does not intend to listen to the Liberals' proposal to re-talk about bringing forward the law on fighting and dealing with terrorist organisations abroad. I find that very regrettable.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-237	Madam President, I would like Again, the tone of this debate is very strange. There is a reason why the six parties that agreed 21 sharp measures against terrorism have not met. It is that when the government invited Roger Haddad to such a meeting, it was only one of the representatives of the alliance parties who had the opportunity to meet the Government. We will of course renew our invitation and hope that Roger Haddad will then have better time in his calendar to meet with the government and discuss the proposals. As far as the sharp measures are concerned, I would like to say that you had eight years. You didn't criminalize terrorist war trips. You did not stop the misuse of Swedish passports. You didn't get any municipal coordinators. You didn't get any municipal action plans. We have now tightened up Säpo's work and every year in power increased the Security Service's budget. It is up to each and every one to compare the success of Roger Haddad's party in power with the progress of this government. We have from day one kept track of those who have returned from the battlefield. The Secret Service has a good control of them. It is a very big task, and that is the background to the government's powerful increase in the Security Service's budget. Despite this work, there is never any guarantee of success. The tragic developments in the world around us have shown this all too clearly. But we are determined to do all we can to combat terrorism and continue to do so in cooperation with the six parties that have agreed on the national anti-terrorism strategy in Sweden.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-240	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked the Minister for Rural Development what measures he will take with regard to the legislation on beach protection to simplify housing construction in metropolitan regions. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. In her interpellation, Maria Stockhaus points out, among other things, that it is unfortunate that the beach protection rules are used as a prohibition law and that the law should contain an opportunity to balance individual and public interests. She also believes that the county boards' handling of the extended beach shelter in particular poses problems. As I stated in my reply to Tina Stockhaus's question on the protection of the beach a few weeks ago (Question 2016/ 17:246), I note that the rules on the protection of the shores that we have today – and which Maria Stockhaus now wants to change – were decided upon following amendments from the previous bourgeois government. I would like to emphasise that one of the central aims of these amendments was to limit further construction in those parts of the country where the beaches have already been extensively exploited and there is strong pressure on further construction along the beaches, that is, typically in the vicinity of the major cities. Both the rules of beach protection itself and the preparatory work which preceded the bourgeois government's reform of the rules show that this is a law of prohibition in order to protect natural values and public access to beach areas. The beach protection rules, as well as other rules on site protection under the Environmental Code, must be applied so that individual interests are also taken into account. A limitation of the individual's rights may not go beyond what is necessary to satisfy the purpose of the protection. With regard to the extended protection of the beach, I would like to refer to my reply to Maria Stockhaus's party colleague Roland Gustbées' interpellation (Interpellation 2016/ 17:90) during the debate on 17 November. As I said at the time, both the provisions on extended beach protection that we have today and the county boards' review of the extended beach protection were implemented on the initiative of the former bourgeois government. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analysis of the results of the review, the review led to a decrease in the size of beach protection both in the country as a whole and in most counties. The government, like the previous bourgeois government, believes that the purpose of beach protection must also be taken into account in those parts of the country where the beaches have already been extensively exploited and that it may often be all the more important to limit further construction. We do not intend to change this attitude. However, as I have stated in several previous replies to Members of Parliament, the Government intends to review the rules on rural development areas in coastal locations – the so-called LIS rules. We want to see a vibrant countryside that can be developed, while preserving an attractive landscape and protecting valuable natural environments, and consider that there is potential to develop the LIS instrument for that purpose. The aim of the review is to further promote rural development in areas with good access to beaches without harming the values that long-term protection aims to protect.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-247	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. In its answer, the Government raises several previous questions and interpellations from my moderate colleagues. This clearly shows how important we think this issue is. We all see, no matter where we come from, the consequences of the current beach protection rules in our respective constituencies. In the Stockholm area, from which I come, it is made more difficult, delayed and impossible to make important residential building and infrastructure projects. And in sparsely populated areas it is not possible to offer attractive living environments by water, which is one of the great benefits that these parts of the country can attract new and much-needed inhabitants with. The Government also points out that the current regulatory framework has been initiated by the Alliance Government and therefore asks my and my colleagues questions. But even the sun has spots. The alliance government, too, assessed that the effects of the new rules were not what was originally intended. That is why the Strandskyddsdelegation was appointed. Madam President, I would like The county administrative boards have used the possibility of extended beach protection to say the least generously, which has put a stop to construction within 300 meters of water in many places. There are also many questions about what counts as watercourses. How wide should a stream be, for example? When should the width be calculated? What counts as a stream? Within the Moderates, we have realised that screwing in existing regulations is not enough. There is a need for completely new legislation in this area, legislation that gives municipalities greater influence and makes application much more flexible. We believe, for example, that it is reasonable to designate areas of particular conservation, but that in other coastal locations there are more opportunities for construction. There should also be areas excluded from beach protection, not least to facilitate construction in, for example, sparsely populated areas. The rules on beach protection, and for that matter also other rules governing construction, which we have today make it difficult and take a long time to develop new homes. A shining example is Ekerö, which now unfortunately finds it difficult to find accommodation for new arrivals. Most parts of the municipality are within 300 metres of water, and those parts that are not within 300 metres of water are occupied by national interests. This makes it very difficult to find buildable land in Ekerö municipality. The foundation for beach protection, to preserve and make the beach accessible, I think we all agree. However, I find it remarkable that the government does not see the need for a serious move. Living and living near water is a great advantage and provides a good living environment. We have plenty of beaches, and proximity to water has many people living in our country.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-253	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commending Maria Stockhaus's honesty, because this is about, which is becoming increasingly clear to any interpellation on the issue, that the Moderates are not satisfied with the compromise made under the previous alliance government. Maybe it wasn't the will of the Moderates that went through. Obviously, we are not satisfied with the decision that has been taken and that is now being applied throughout the country. It is important and good that the honourable Member is honest with this. However, pointing out the authorities that have to apply this legislation and saying that it would be their fault that the law does not correspond sufficiently well with the intention of the Moderates to the law, which, however, is not in the law, is very strange. Of course, it cannot be the county boards' fault if you are not satisfied with the law you wrote. Then you may suggest that the law be changed. Shortly after the last provision was adopted, it was also decided to review precisely the application of all decisions concerning extended beach protection. It is a review that is under way and is therefore not finished. There has been an evaluation of how things have gone so far, and this has led to quite large reductions across the country. M a review is not complete. Nevertheless, Maria Stockhaus is prepared to conclude that rules that she herself was involved in writing do not work well enough. It's premature. It is very clear that one of the aims of the last amendment to the beach protection was that new construction in areas that already have a great deal of pressure on the beaches should be limited by stricter rules. On the other hand, the preparatory work on the so-called LIS rules states that there are areas close to the country's major agglomerations that should not be eligible for the LIS exemption but should rather be more protected. The government, like the previous bourgeois government, that is to say, what they actually decided on, believes that the purpose of beach protection must be taken into account in those parts of the country where the beaches have already been extensively exploited and that it is often more important to limit further construction. We do not intend to change this attitude. On the other hand, I and the government want to build on the LIS instrument, which was introduced by the bourgeois government but has not achieved its aims and has not had the impact that many people expect. We will therefore review the LIS exemption with a view to genuinely promoting rural development without jeopardising the purpose of beach protection. There is a demand for housing throughout the country, and a reform of LIS could mean that this could be better met. This is part of the housing policy package presented by the government this summer.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-261	Madam President, I would like One thing we agree on is that more housing needs to be built. Waterfront dwellings are attractive living environments both in metropolitan areas and in rural areas. We see very clearly that the regulations we have today prevent housing production and make it more difficult for rural municipalities to build attractive living environments, as well as it is difficult for us in the metropolitan regions to build new housing. There is also a lot of water in the metropolitan regions. There are also clear signals from the public that they find it difficult to understand the regulatory framework and that it is interpreted arbitrarily. M steam also expresses the fact that little is seen about weighing individual interests against the general public. It is very little of individual interests that have to weigh heavily in these decisions. The government criticises the municipalities for not building housing, and many municipalities state precisely building rules including beach protection as one of the reasons why it takes time and that it is difficult to obtain new housing. I have been a municipal politician for 12 years and have worked on issues such as community building, and if I am to be really honest I sometimes wonder that something is being built at all. In Sollentuna a detailed plan was recently failed in a large, new area of exploitation due to beach protection. It overturned plans to make the shoreline more accessible to the public and destroyed a road that would be the bus street and provide the new area with public transport. Madam President, I would like I wonder whether the government is completely blind to the criticism that beach protection rules receive from both municipalities and the general public. When do we get to see a beach shelter that really protects what is safe but does not prevent development and construction?
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-267	Madam President, I would like Among other things, the amendment of the beach protection rules in 2009 reinforced the requirement to extend coastal protection areas. There was also a reform in which every decision on extended shore protection is retaken, a huge process going on. We have received about a hundred appeals that we deal with within the Government Office, and all county boards are still working on these issues, which in many parts are difficult, among other things because there are always balances between a number of general interests and individual interests. The government sees that several county boards have succeeded very well in taking a holistic approach to beach protection within their counties and within the review. The need for more housing in Sweden is quite clear. The fact that the government is very active in enabling more housing across the country is also clear to me. Listening to the municipalities is equally clear. Sweden's municipalities and county councils have compiled a long list of regulations that can be changed quickly, which will facilitate housing construction. The government is working very actively to point by point and in close dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council of this list. It is a work that is obviously being carried forward, particularly by my colleague, the Minister for Housing. I also find it odd to say that this review is a failure when an analysis of the county administrative board's review of the extended protection of the beach so far, which was presented this summer, provides that the area of extended protection in the country has fallen by 25%. These are individual decisions. In each decision, the public interest has been weighed against the individual. To dismiss this as a failure and blame it on the county administrative board and say that they would not have complied with the government's decision, when in fact it seems to be the very decision that one is dissatisfied with, I think it is negligently formulated about our authorities, who are working very hard on this. As I said, in many places the revision of beach protection has led to improvements and clarifications that will be useful for a long time. Another thing that I think is clear is that the previous government tried to change all parts of the rules on beach protection at the same time, and it does not seem to be really happy with any part of it. This government has identified the LIS rules as the most urgent thing to change, and so we are launching a reform and a review of them. It is better to do one thing at a time in good order and perhaps do it a little more properly than the previous government did.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-273	Madam President, I would like I think that I and the Government have a slightly different view of what a lot of activity is when it comes to ensuring that new housing is produced. Sending out a few million in subsidies to the municipalities does not seem to me to be very active and make sure that there will be new housing. In view of the answers I receive both in the written replies of the Government and here in the debate, I am convinced that this is probably not the last time that the Government is standing here in the speaker's chair debating the beach protection with colleagues from the Moderates, but it will probably happen more times. We have realised that clarifications and improvements are not enough; there is a need for a substantial round-up. Sweden has extremely long stretches of land lying by water. It is possible to build attractive environments without preventing public access to the beaches. It is even possible in construction projects to make the beaches even more accessible, as we have tried to do in Sollentuna but where the projects have unfortunately had to be closed down because the County Administrative Board has said no. We have realized that there is a need for a real move. It's not enough to patch and cook, it needs a big deal. I wonder why the government does not see that need when the housing shortage is so great.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-277	Mr President, I would like to The government is doing an incredibly active work to enable housing construction throughout the country. In parallel with this, and in no way in conflict, the government is actively working to protect nature conservation, protect natural values and promote an even more active outdoor life. Here, the beach shelter is a piece of the puzzle. This spring, there were hopes that the work on housing policy could take place in a broad political consensus. We invited wide-ranging discussions on housing policy. One of the issues on the agenda for those meetings was the beach protection rules. Unfortunately, the Moderates and other alliance parties chose to leave those talks, and so the talks about, among other things, beach protection have been interrupted. I'm sorry about that. But this does not mean, of course, that the government's efforts to create more housing stop, while taking into account the protection of nature and the protection of outdoor life. My colleague the Minister for Housing has presented a housing policy package. It has been developed in close cooperation with Sweden's municipalities through the organisation Sveriges Kommuner and Landsting. The proposals for action that have come from there are being implemented. In that package, the shoreguard has not been identified as the major obstacle. Instead, there are other parts that they ask us to work with, and so there are other parts that we also work with.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-280	Mr President, I would like to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me how I and the government are moving forward with the work to phase out brominated flame retardants within the European Union. I would like to thank Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for raising the issue of brominated flame retardants. The brominated flame retardants are a group of dangerous substances which are particularly important to phase out completely from goods in people's everyday lives and the external environment. They are associated with behavioural disorders, and some of them are also suspected endocrine disruptors. They can also accumulate in fatty tissue and can be transferred from mother to child during breast-feeding. In the environment they are persistent and can spread long distances via the air. They accumulate in animals and thus spread in the food webs. Sweden is and has been active in the work of phasing out brominated flame retardants in the EU and also at a global level. The Stockholm Convention is a global agreement that prohibits or restricts persistent organic compounds. Today, the Convention regulates HBCDD, penta-BDE and octa-BDE. Sweden has pushed to nominate another subject – deka-BDE – for bans. This decision is taken at the meeting of the Parties to the Convention in spring 2017. At EU level, Sweden has also been pushing to regulate HBCDD during REACH and has developed the evidence that the substance has been included in the list of candidate substances for permit testing. Thus, despite the global ban, it is possible in the EU to seek authorisation for the use of HBCDD as a flame retardant in insulation materials. When applications for authorisations were examined in the REACH Committee in early 2016, Sweden voted against the authorisation on the grounds that it is not possible to assess the risk to the environment or what measures are needed to minimise exposure to the substance. In addition, granted permits send negative signals in the global phase-out work under the Stockholm Convention. Also in the EU directive regulating hazardous substances in electronics and REACH there are restrictions on brominated flame retardants. A proposal for a ban under REACH on another subject – deka-BDE – is currently under discussion. There's another subject. TBBPA is not regulated, but Denmark is currently assessing whether the subject is hazardous to health and the environment. Once this evaluation has been completed, there will be a better basis for assessing the need for measures to address the risks associated with the use. Most of the most dangerous brominated flame retardants are therefore banned, or are about to be banned, within the EU or internationally. Unfortunately, however, even the substances that replace the banned flame retardants often have negative environmental and health aspects. Prohibition is an important part of the work to phase out hazardous chemicals, but regulating at EU level takes a long time and requires a lot of resources. Another important element is therefore the company's own work in finding better alternatives. A centre for substitution can be a strong support for those companies that want to find better alternatives to hazardous chemicals. The government has therefore set up an investigation which will make a proposal in March for what such a centre might look like. The government continues to operate at a global level and within the EU to phase out more dangerous flame retardants. In the Government's letter from May this year, Gift-free everyday life, there is a more detailed account of the Government's work to reduce the risks of various flame retardants.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-289	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Minister for your answer. The government is now continuing the work of previous governments to phase out hazardous chemicals at Union and global level. I'm glad to hear that. Sweden has for a long time been the driving force for effective and cross-border action in the field of chemicals. This applies to everything from mercury to advanced endocrine disruptors. I also believe that the Minister agrees that continuity, along with stubbornness, is a key factor for Sweden to achieve the environmental quality objective of a non-toxic environment. That is precisely why I have awakened the interpellation. In order for Sweden to be able to have a long-term effective chemicals policy, a common understanding is required in Parliament regarding, among other things, the principle of substitution, the principle of subsidiarity and that decisions should be made on a scientific evidence-based basis and not because of ideological deviations. Mr President, I would like to Last spring the Environment and Agriculture Committee stated in its report the Environmental Code and EU chemicals legislation, etc. that chemicals legislation is essentially contained in common EU regulations. If that is the committee's agreement, and that is a good thing. With common Union rules, we can create the conditions for more free trade by means of a common market and tackle problems with the release of dangerous substances that easily cross national borders through air, goods and watercourses. Let me give a related example. If a Swedish furniture manufacturer wants to export a sofa to Slovenia, for example, that manufacturer should not be hindered by the existence of different rules for flame retardants. Fire works in some sense in the same way everywhere. These are exactly the kind of thresholds I hope we can work together to cut down. It is good for the growth of the Union as a whole. In the same way, it is good if the whole of the Union can phase out dangerous substances together so that children in either Sweden, Lithuania or Belgium, for example, do not get hormone disrupters. This brings us to the issue of brominated flame retardants. Mr President, I would like to Brominated flame retardants present great risks. They are persistent and stored in the fatty tissue of humans. This means that restrictions that occur now may not have an effect in Sweden for many years. However, it should be remembered that restrictions are possible. Brominated flame retardants are relatively easy to minimize and to some extent substitute. There are Swedish innovations in this area. With Union-wide instruments, global value chains can also start substitution. It is not possible, for example, with national bans in a country with fewer than 10 million inhabitants. I would therefore like to put a question to the Minister for the Environment, Karolina Skog, referring to her interpellational response. Sweden has nominated deka-BDE for a ban under the Stockholm Convention, and decisions will be taken in spring 2017. What are the possibilities for this to happen, even before the substance has been banned within the framework of REACH? Is there and does it require a Swedish strategy to ensure that this is implemented, and what is the strategy to get more countries to raise these issues both in the Commission and in the Union?
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, honourable Member, for your commitment to this incredibly important issue! I fully agree that it is precisely stubbornness and perseverance that are the key to chemicals policy. I feel very proud to act as one in a long line of Swedish environmental ministers who have prioritised and driven chemicals issues internationally and have done so independently of which party they represent. It is simply a clear Swedish line. This tradition also treats us with respect in these contexts when we meet with other countries and discuss legislation, a respect that is very valuable and which I do my very best to use in a wise and strategic way. Sweden has been active in the work to phase out the most dangerous variants of flame retardants. The work is primarily carried out within REACH but is also global. The signs we are seeing now make us optimistic that it is possible to get a ban under the Stockholm Convention on another subject. But, of course, we are not waiting, but we are in active dialogue with other countries and are constantly looking for allies in the work. We also have a systematised work in the EU, where I work actively with other environmental ministers who have elaborate relations on chemicals issues in particular. Our agency, the Chemicals Inspectorate, has also recently developed a specific cooperation with Denmark, which is mentioned in the interpellation response. We help each other and share the workload so that we do not work on the same topics. We simply benefit the work between countries, and then we work together in communication with the European Union. This is important because, despite the fact that we have now removed the most dangerous flame retardants, much work remains to be done to examine the substances that are being replaced. In many cases, we suspect that these too are harmful, but the creation of European legislation requires a great deal of knowledge. In order to achieve real success in creating a non-toxic everyday life, we also need to look at completely different ways. You may be able to make textiles that do not need to be treated with chemicals to withstand fire. Here, as the honourable Member mentions, we have Swedish companies at the forefront. I had the opportunity to meet some of these the other day at a large conference arranged by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's Gift-free everyday life. The Government's cooperation programme on new materials aims, among other things, to search for those answers. Where are the new solutions? What policy is needed to bring them forward and ensure that they have a significant impact on the Swedish, European and global markets? That work is very active. Chemicals policy must be made up of different elements. Some of these are really stubborn work on legislation in Europe and in Sweden. Another is working with the business community and finding new solutions. This is where we can make technological leaps that will make a real difference in everyone's everyday lives.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-302	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This may be a bit anecdotal, but I remember that at the Paris meeting COP 21 before the climate agreement was developed it was a panel debate with among others the Swedish Minister for the Environment, who was Åsa Romson at the time. There was a long line of environmental ministers who were all doctors. Then Åsa Romson was presented as Deputy Prime Minister of Sweden Doctor Åsa Romson, and there was silence in the hall. It was not because she was a doctor but because she was a Swedish minister. That's what blew the highest. I think you can think back about that. It really is a quality seal when Sweden goes out into the world and talks about reforms that have been implemented in the field of chemicals. Mr President, I would like to It is important that chemicals policy is based on science and effective action. Looking back here in Sweden you can see that in the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s the factories became only bigger and bigger. After a while Swedish industrial workers noticed that soot and ash rained from the sky. Then they came up with the brilliant solution to build the chimneys a little higher, because then the soot and the ash spread a little further away. We passed the problem on to Norway and Finland. Today we know far better than we did just 50 years ago or 10 years ago. We know that greenhouse gas emissions are a global problem that requires global solutions. We know that the release of chemicals that are easily distributed in goods, air and watercourses is a problem that the EU needs to take full action against. I think it is right that the Swedish Government is pushing for restrictions on brominated flame retardants. I know that, as the Minister mentions, it requires resources. The Bromlobby in Brussels is not small, under-funded or ignorant. It has the muscle to drive its agenda powerfully. At home, the government has come forward with a new instrument, the so-called chemical tax, on which I have some points of view. It is an advanced and fairly opaque regulatory framework for tax collection, and it has in some sense unscientific criteria for which subjects are to be covered. But for a finance minister who is looking for new revenue, I guess it just couldn't be resisted. Mr President, I would like to Another initiative which the government is working on and which has also been mentioned here today in the response from the Minister for the Environment is a centre for substitution, which is being investigated for possible introduction during the term of office. It is a commendable initiative. The Moderates exercised in 2015 to set up a knowledge portal to spread knowledge about chemicals and substitution, and this is in some sense the same proposal but with a different name. I will also mention that the Chemicals Inspectorate has a rather interesting website for companies and inspectors as well as consumers, which provides information on dangerous substances and the laws that apply to them. I think that is well worth building on when developing a centre for substitution. But this interpellation is essentially about what Sweden can do to push for within the EU to phase out just brominated flame retardants. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment whether the inquiry into this Centre for Replacement includes the question of how Swedish research results, Swedish evaluations and Swedish proposals on substitution of substances can be made available to other Union countries as well. If it does not, what roads does Sweden still have to develop to drive in the Union for increased substitution? In Sweden, many substances are already banned and are not used in manufacturing. But now, in some sense, it is time to close them so that they are not imported either.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-310	Mr President, I would like to For the government, a non-toxic everyday life for everyone is a high priority. In this work we focus on children's and young people's environments, on the products we buy as parents and put in the hands of our children and on the environments and buildings that children and young people are in. We should feel confident that those environments and products are safe. In order to get this work started, which has existed for a long time, we have increased funding substantially. The Agency has new resources and will be able to carry out a screening of a large number of products. There has also been an increase in resources that can be used to extend cooperation with other countries, which is being done and plans to further expand. As the honourable Member says, there is a great interest in Swedish knowledge in chemicals policy and evaluation of various products. The Government also cooperates closely with the research community in the collaboration programme and in developing relations between the departments and various research institutions. There is very active work there on how to improve chemicals policy and make it more effective and how to disseminate knowledge across countries. Even within the research community, there is a great deal of interest in Sweden. We Swedes can be proud of the tradition of a strong and clear chemicals policy. The core of the work of the authorities, government and researchers is to seek international cooperation and meet the demand that exists around the world for our experiences. With regard to the part relating to the development of business, I feel that the interest of industry has taken many steps forward in recent times, and that is incredibly pleasing. This is also confirmed by the Chemicals Inspectorate. The ambition of Swedish companies to produce really good products, in their own production but also in terms of what they buy from others, is very high and has been strengthened in recent years. One reason for this, as I see it, is that we are increasingly talking about the link between chemicals and other policy areas. It is the link between chemicals and climate change, and it is the link between chemicals and health policy, where the use of chemicals unfortunately generates large costs. I feel very strong in this work, partly because I know that I have strong support in Parliament. It is very important when we go to the EU and negotiate. I also feel strong because I have huge support from the business community. There is a great interest in testing new ways and finding new solutions that are truly sustainable, both in terms of a toxic perspective and in addressing the climate challenge. I would like to thank the honourable Member once again for raising the subject and confirming the strong support that an active chemicals policy has in Parliament.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-319	Mr President, I would like to We are surrounded daily by thousands of chemicals without thinking about it. Many of them are vital. Thanks to our research, we have been able to build the society that we have today. Chemicals have, among other things, made it possible for food, building materials and phones to last longer. Chemicals also enable research to find medicines that save lives in healthcare. Modern society depends in many ways on the benefits of chemicals. Chemicals also make an important contribution to economic and social well-being in trade and employment issues. As the Minister for the Environment mentions, there are, of course, also risks of chemicals. With increasing use of chemicals, there will also be a responsibility for which chemicals we use and how they affect people, nature and wildlife. Not all chemicals are good. Some chemicals have been shown to affect, for example, the human hormone system and reproduction and can cause asthma and allergies. They can cause major effects on nature and wildlife. In addition, some substances are stored in goods and buildings and can affect people's lives and the environment for a long time to come and are difficult to view today, because we do not have lists of contents on, for example, building materials. Brominated flame retardants have almost all the properties I mentioned earlier. I therefore hope that the government will keep up its work, particularly within the European Union and at global level, to phase them out. The government has strong support in this House, and there are announcements from both the previous Parliamentary Session and this. I thank you for an urgent debate, and we will soon see each other in the Chamber again.
i-9aca1a68ac2a1b7d-324	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish chemicals policy aims to achieve the environmental objective of a non-toxic environment. It is the environmental objective that is deemed to be most difficult to achieve, because the development of chemicals policy is very rapid, while the tools we have in terms of legislation are slow and require a very hard job in obtaining knowledge but also a very hard job within the European Union, where the legislation is mainly done. It also requires very close cooperation with other countries that think as we do on these issues. But Sweden has a very good tradition to follow. We work very actively, both in terms of legislation and in terms of seeking new solutions together with the scientific community and the business community. There are many exciting solutions out there and an active innovation policy that takes these products from idea to a large market. It is an important part of this work. It is also important that we link work on chemicals with other policy areas, not least the climate issue. A changed climate will make chemicals in our everyday lives behave differently. I also feel strengthened by being a part of this Swedish tradition and the broad support that these issues have in the Riksdag. If I am afraid of anything, it is the hatred of science that actually emerges in parts of the general debate. What is sometimes called post-truth – questioning that politics should be based on truth. If we are to stand up for something, we must stand together in order for politics and laws to continue to be based on knowledge, science and evidence. We need to stand up actively and jointly for such an approach.
