i-BxrEM8YxPzxpQ64XhFkYzb	Your Majestys, Your Royal Highnesses, Prime Minister, Minister, Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament, audience! Welcome, everyone, to one of the celebrations of Swedish democracy, namely the opening of the Parliamentary Session! I request that His Majesty the King declare the Parliamentary Session open.
i-e04f2c8604a189ab-0	Mr President, I am a member of the Swedish Parliament. We are gathered today to open a new Parliamentary Session. You will now continue your important work to pass on our nation. We live in a globalised world. Many recent events have shaken the world, including Sweden. It is clearer than ever that what happens outside Sweden's borders also affects us. The European Union is also under pressure. We must continue to believe in cooperation between countries and in an association that guarantees peaceful cooperation. Sweden has had peace for over 200 years and is today one of the most prosperous countries in the world. This has not always been the case. Just over 100 years ago, we were a poor country that people left. During the last 150 years, Sweden has gone from being an emigration country to being a country that many people are looking for. Today, thousands of Swedes also move abroad every year to work or study. I hope that all of us Swedes in Sweden and abroad stand up for our values – values like faith in the equal value of all people, equality between women and men, faith in a democratic governance and freedom of religion and expression. Sweden has a long tradition of promoting peace, security and human rights in various international contexts. Through Sweden's newly won seat in the UN Security Council, we have now been given an opportunity to make our voice heard further in global contexts. I hope that we will manage this opportunity well already in a week's time at a summit in New York on the global refugee situation, an important meeting in which Sweden is one of the organisers. Continued development for Sweden requires that working life is constantly renewed through entrepreneurship and innovation. This requires research and development that remains world-class and not least a school and higher education that puts knowledge and learning at the forefront. Our cultural heritage is the tick that binds us together. It is rich and multi-phase unified, created by influences from different countries over the centuries. By meeting with mutual respect and by listening and learning from each other, we develop. That is why the good conversation between people is so important. Ladies and gentlemen! You are elected by the citizens who have the right to vote today. But the choices you make affect the future of many more. Sweden's children and young people depend on you to make wise and long-term decisions. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I wish all of you elected representatives of the people of Sweden the power, courage and wisdom to carry our nation forward in a favourable development for all citizens. I hereby declare the 2016/17 Parliamentary Session open.
i-e04f2c8604a189ab-9	I'm ordering the Prime Minister to make a declaration of government.
i-ZDwH3TUxRMHaUPQkEgwx3	Your Majestys, Your Royal Highnesses, Mr. Speaker, honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! Our time is the time of contradictions. Our security, our prosperity, our health, our democracy, our climate – the challenges unite countries around the world, in adversity and in success. A banker's speculation on Manhattan risks the jobs in Malmö. City developers in Shanghai are using research at Chalmers University of Technology. Climate change in California creates faith in the future in Karlskoga. At the same time as communities and people are intertwined, we are torn apart. We see growing gaps between poor and rich and between urban and rural areas, a two-tier labour market and a concern and insecurity about their own future and the future of their children. The realization that the future – yours, mine, ours – is shared will permeate politics in our country. Sweden should stick together. Closeness has never been Sweden's way. Openness to the world characterizes Sweden and every citizen's everyday life. For a small nation with high ambitions for jobs, climate and school, it is a crucial choice. Leadership today demands broad and active collaboration – locally, nationally and internationally. The government's answer is therefore twofold: Sweden will develop through community building and cooperation. Two years have passed since the Parliamentary elections. The Swedish economy is developing strongly. The government has changed the direction of Swedish policy – from tax cuts and cuts to strong investments in the construction of society. It's starting to produce results. So far, 120,000 more jobs have been created. Employment is the highest in the EU. Youth unemployment is falling. Considerably more young people who are taking the student can now look forward to a job or higher education. For the first time in over seven years, unemployment is below 7%. The budget deficit is essentially wiped out. Public finances are in order. In welfare, the years of cutbacks are over. In the last two years, 13,000 more have been employed in schools alone. Investments in climate change lead to reduced emissions. The long-term and necessary work to break the growing insecurity and segregation has begun. The parliamentary year ahead will be marked by the government's priorities: jobs, school and climate. It is a policy of responsibility – for the future, for Sweden and for our surrounding world. Responsibility for the future requires that we modernise Sweden – our education system, our energy production, our administration and our labour market. Responsibility for the world on which we depend requires active cooperation internationally, solidarity and the recognition that security must be built together with others. Responsibility for Sweden requires that we stick together, develop the Swedish model, invest in welfare and in what makes our country both strong and safe. Mr President, I would like to The construction of society is aiming for the future. Strong economic growth, full employment and socially and ecologically sustainable development lay the foundation for future generations' opportunities for a good life. Accelerating climate change contributes both to new jobs and to a safer world for our children and grandchildren. Job growth will continue to be stimulated and labour market matching improved. The target of reaching the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 guides economic policy. The efforts are carried out in broad collaboration – with industry, academia and civil society. Sweden's development potential will be strengthened in five areas: Firstly, Sweden must compete with knowledge and competence – not low wages. This autumn, the proposal for research, innovation and higher education will be presented. The appropriations for research and doctoral education will be increased. Sweden as a leading knowledge nation is strengthened. The Swedish labour market is currently hampered by the fact that people lack the right education. Both companies and the public sector are hard hit by labour shortages. Strong investment is therefore being made in new training opportunities. The knowledge boost is being expanded with a special focus on adult vocational education and training. A start-up grant should be introduced for the unemployed with short training and high training needs. A proposal is made for all adults to be entitled to k omvux to complete high school. The quality of professional programmes is improved. The re-introduction of the university qualification is being prepared. Further efforts to achieve the 90-day guarantee are being undertaken. Regional cooperation is strengthened to better meet the needs of the labour market. New arrivals who already have training or experience from a shortage profession should quickly be brought into work. Fast track for a number of professions has been developed, and the number of participants is steadily increasing. Arbetsförmedlingen must be a matching authority with a clearer employer focus. In order to cope with the future supply of skills in the Swedish labour market, I intend to invite the social partners and industries to in-depth discussions on how the major educational efforts should be designed. Secondly, Sweden's exports will grow for more jobs and increased prosperity. The government supports the EU's imminent signing of a new trade agreement with Canada. Negotiations with the US on the trade and investment agreement continue. The aim is to achieve as ambitious an agreement as possible while ensuring the possibility of maintaining and strengthening the protection of workers, the environment, human and animal health. The agreements shall respect the decisions of a democratic nature. Sweden shall be a pioneer country for free and fair trade. The Government's export strategy improves the opportunities for Swedish companies to grow and develop. Swedish export successes are born within the so-called creative and climate-smart industries. The efforts to win major export deals and attract business start-ups to Sweden are strengthened by Team Sweden. Regional export centres are established in several places in the country. New embassies are opening up in key emerging markets – in the Philippines, Peru and Tunisia. Thirdly, Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. The transition to a green economy strengthens Swedish competitiveness. Our position as a leader in international climate work is consolidated. In a week's time, the largest climate and environmental budget will be presented in Sweden's history. A new climate policy framework and new climate targets are adopted. With a broad consensus in Parliament, the energy system is modernised, and the long-term, sustainable supply of electricity is secured for both households and industry. The investment aid for solar electricity is eightfold in three years. 100% renewable energy is the target. Climate change and urban environment agreements result in climate investments for living cities and rural areas. In Umeå, new electric buses roll. New bus streets are emerging in Växjö. A new tram line is being built in Lund. From north to south is invested in biogas, biofuels and charging poles. The development that more and more people take the cycle to work and school should be promoted. The super-environmental car premium and the reduction in the preferential taxation of environmental cars are extended. The goal is a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Work to protect the environment and create a non-toxic everyday life is intensified. Swedish schools and preschools should be free from dangerous chemicals. A strategy for sustainable consumption is presented. Crucial steps are taken to achieve environmental objectives. The principle is simple: It should be cheaper to be an environmental friend and more expensive to release. Fourthly, Sweden should be the world leader in innovative and sustainable industrial production. The five strategic collaboration programmes of the Innovation Council are launched. Innovative solutions create next generation transport, smart cities, circular and bio-based economy, life science and connected industry and new materials. Industrial research is being developed. The attractiveness of Swedish innovation environments is strengthened. Entrepreneurs with an individual firm can hire their first colleague with a new degree of support. Public venture capital is reformed to make it easier to get money for new ideas. The new state-owned company Saminvest supports more innovative and growing companies. The new industrialisation strategy Smart Industry is being implemented. Public procurement will be used strategically to contribute to a sustainable society and to new innovative solutions. The opportunities of digitalisation should be exploited both for businesses and for citizens. A new digital strategy will support business and social development. Swedish administration is further digitized to improve service and accessibility. Fifthly, Sweden's infrastructure should be sustainable and promote development throughout the country. It must be possible to leave home or find a place where you get a job. The government is carrying out a historic investment in more housing. The forecast is 61,500 new dwellings started next year. That is an increase of over 50% in three years. Housing construction is further facilitated. It will be easier to produce serially manufactured houses. More building permits-free measures are introduced. Mobility in the housing market is stimulated by changes in tax rules. More climate-smart homes are being built. An architectural policy for more sustainable urban environments is developed. Infrastructure and transport should be dependable. Better transport enables larger labour market regions and is central to business freight transport. An infrastructure bill for 2018 – 2029 will be presented this autumn. Significant investments are made in the operation and maintenance of road and rail. The railway network is being expanded. Long-distance freight transport is to be moved from truck to train and shipping. The train should be faster than the car and cheaper than the flight. Swedish forestry has a key role to play in managing the transition to a circular and bio-based economy. It creates new, green jobs. A national forest programme will be presented in 2017. For the first time, a comprehensive approach to the whole food chain is taken into account in a food strategy. Conscious consumers see added value in Swedish agriculture and help to make it a future industry. The increased demand for organic products is to be met. Mr President, I would like to We are living at a time when it is becoming increasingly apparent that our own security is spelled common security. The government strengthens its commitment to a strong and capable EU and to an effective UN. Our need for effective European cooperation has never been greater. Sweden will actively contribute to shaping Europe's future. EU cooperation should better respond to citizens' expectations. A Europe for jobs and growth, an ambitious environmental and climate policy and a shared responsibility for migration are priorities. The EU's internal market is crucial to breaking the high unemployment rate. At the same time, good working conditions should be ensured. Equal pay for equal work shall be subject to laws and agreements in the country of employment. Sweden is pushing for a social Europe and will host a social summit in autumn 2017. In a week's time, Sweden, together with a number of countries, companies, trade unions and international organisations, will launch a global initiative, Global Deal, to strengthen employees, companies and communities. The benefits of globalisation must be shared by all. During the parliamentary year, negotiations will begin on the withdrawal of the UK from the European Union. The EU's relations with the UK should remain good, so should Sweden. Safety in our neighbourhood has deteriorated. Russia's aggression against Ukraine and illegal annexation of Crimea, the situation on the EU's southern border, the attempted coup in Turkey and continued war in Syria – all require strong and joint action, both in the EU and in the UN. The fact that Sweden was elected to the UN Security Council is a recognition of Sweden's foreign policy and our foreign administration. Our foreign and security policy is based on the universal principles of democracy, international law and human rights. Efforts to promote disarmament and conflict prevention are prioritised, as are new threats to security such as climate change. Women's participation in peace processes is highlighted, one of many examples of how the government's feminist foreign policy develops. Transparency and dialogue, including with African countries, will shape the work of the Security Council. Sustainable peace can only be achieved by tackling the root causes of conflict. Sweden takes a leading role in the UN Global Agenda 2030. Nationally, municipalities, county councils, voluntary organisations, industry, researchers and authorities participate in the implementation. A new development policy framework is presented. Responsibility must be taken for the environment and climate. This autumn a proposal for Sweden's approval of the historic Paris Agreement will be presented. The goal is to keep the global temperature increase as far below 2 degrees as possible and strive to limit it to 1.5 degrees. The countries and people most vulnerable to the effects of climate change will be supported. Sweden is the largest donor to the UN's Green Climate Fund. The breadth of security policy instruments such as diplomacy, mediation and confidence-building shall contribute to the absence of threats. Our security policy line is solid. Military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. In Sweden, defence capabilities are strengthened. Since the turn of the year, defence policy has taken a new direction. The Swedish Armed Forces focus primarily on the defence of our country. The operational capability of the military units is a priority. The long-term security of personnel supply shall be ensured. Defence and security cooperation is broadened and deepened. Partnership cooperation with NATO is developing and the transatlantic link is strengthened. Sama rbetet with Finland is central. Involvement in international peace-keeping operations remains important. The government will also seek broad support for a national security strategy during the year. Next year Israel's occupation of Palestine has been going on for 50 years. The situation is constantly getting worse with new illegal settlements. The conflict itself is increasing violence against civilians. Both parties have a responsibility to end the violence. Sweden's long-standing and strong commitment has a clear objective: a two-state solution with Israel and Palestine side by side, in peace and security. The war in Syria and the serious situation in Iraq also call for continued joint struggle against Daish. Sweden's active role in the global coalition continues. A doubling of the military contribution in Iraq is proposed. Mr President, I would like to Let me tell you about Muzon. She's been through things that no child should have to experience. She fled with her family from Syria to the Za 中 atari refugee camp in Jordan. There she had the opportunity to finish school. She says: No one had to tell me that education is important. I've always understood that. Our house was built by an architect. When I was sick, I went to a healer. Education is everything in life. ..................................................... Sweden's humanitarian aid in the immediate vicinity of war provides people with food for the day and shelter over their heads. More children will have the opportunity to attend school. Sweden will remain one of the world's largest humanitarian donors. The global refugee crisis continues to create unimaginable humanitarian suffering. More countries need to contribute more – in the EU and globally. The reasons why people are forced to flee must be combated. It is Sweden's demand at the autumn UN meeting on migration and at the summit on the global refugee crisis that Sweden is involved in organising together with the US now in September. Sweden is pushing for a functioning asylum system in the EU. Responsibility for people on the run must be borne jointly by all Member States. The government has done and will continue to do what is necessary to cope with reception and establishment here in Sweden, maintain regulated immigration and safeguard the right to asylum. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is based on trust and solidarity. It can be described as a mutual social contract. All people should have equal rights and opportunities. Rights also include obligations and responsibilities. In Sweden we have a general welfare. It applies equally to everyone — whether you are poor or rich. Welfare systems should be robust and adapted as society changes. But the social contract also includes a commitment to do the right thing – to contribute with work and pay taxes, not to cheat, commit crimes or evade responsibility, to contribute to equality, democracy and respect for others. Now Sweden is growing with new inhabitants. People on the run who have been given the right to stay belong to our country just like you and me. We are all part of the same community building. Now new fellow humans will start studying and working to contribute to society. Today, a great many residents, employees and volunteers are doing great things for that very purpose. We will fight segregation and discrimination together. We shall stand side by side, for human dignity and democracy. And we will stand up to racism, extremism and divisive hatred. The Swedish model is the foundation when the construction and modernisation of our country continues. Sweden should stick together.
i-e04f2c8604a189ab-67	If we are to be able to trust each other and in society, equality before the law must be upheld. Force is being taken against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. Government pensions are reviewed. Overuse and misuse of our welfare and social security systems must be prevented. A new delegation has been set up for this purpose. Staffing requirements and reporting of monthly data should reduce undeclared work and labour market exploitation. That's how serious employers are rewarded. Further measures are being taken to counter the increasing number of frauds. No one should be able to buy before in the queue into the publicly funded healthcare system. A legislative proposal to prohibit the privatisation of university hospitals is presented. A new regulatory framework will ensure that tax money is used for what it is intended for. Quality and freedom of choice should characterise welfare. Mr President, I would like to There's a piece in Elin Wägner's debut novel Norrtullsligan. It is about four young women – clerks – in Stockholm at the beginning of the last century. One of them, Eva, tells of how she met an old fellow student from the trading institute. She says: We were about as stiff. You think, and now he's got 4600 in fixed salary and I'm a thousand, isn't that a little bit of his own? ..................................................... A hundred years later, we can see that women earn an average of SEK 3.6 million less than men during a working life. I say, it's a little bit of your own.
i-e04f2c8604a189ab-75	The Government will shortly be presenting an integrated budget for gender equality. For the second year in a row, economic equality is again increasing. The objective of gender balance in government boards has been achieved. The governance and follow-up of gender equality policies are strengthened. The pace of gender equality work is increasing. Young girls should not have to hesitate to visit festivals and concerts. Women and men should be able to feel safe even after dark. Women's safety must be increased – both in their homes and in public spaces. It is not up to men to decide where women can be or how to dress. Sweden is led by a feminist government. A new strategy against men's violence against women is presented. Sexual crime legislation is being strengthened. The so-called violence of honour is to be combated. Support for associations is being increased while the demands for work against racism and for democratic values and gender equality are being tightened. It should be safe in Sweden. No one should be subjected to hatred or threats because of their faith, gender, skin colour, love, identity or disability. A plan against hate crime and racism is presented. The legislation against online hate speech is tightened up. Work on contributing to better living conditions in the home countries of vulnerable EU citizens continues. No one should have to beg in Sweden. I don't want shootings, car fires and drug trafficking to ruin people's security. Force is being taken during the year to break the trend and fight organised crime. More resources than ever have been invested in the police in recent years. The forthcoming budget announces further substantial reinforcements. More civilians can be hired and thus release police officers. Training of more police officers can begin. Police presence will increase in the areas affected by crime. The protection of blue-light personnel shall be strengthened. The penalty for damage should be tightened. Terrorism is to be overcome. The National Police Task Force is given the opportunity to receive foreign aid. The security services are given more resources. Terrorism travel and participation in terrorism education have been criminalised. Further action is being taken against radicalisation and extremism. Crime must be combated. So should the causes of crime. A new crime prevention programme is being developed. Many years of work begin to break the segregation. Long-term unemployment should be broken and housing segregation reduced. Support for schools and preschools with tough conditions is increasing. Mr President, I would like to From being a welder and going to evening seminars in Örnsköldsvik to representing Sweden as Prime Minister at the World Economic Forum in Davos, I have followed the economic debate. The general welfare is unmatched in shaping equal living conditions. However, as globalisation increases, knowledge and security also become crucial competitive advantages. More and more people in the world now understand how important equality is for a growing economy. For the government, it is self-evident to prioritise welfare before new tax cuts. The general state grants to municipalities and county councils are permanently increased by SEK 10 billion. The principle of public access and freedom of communication shall apply to the tax-funded welfare. Governance should take advantage of employees' skills for the benefit of citizens and businesses. That is the starting point of the government's confidence reform. A thorough work to reverse the learning outcomes in school has begun. Investments in school have increased by over SEK 8 billion per year. More and more people are seeking teacher training, which is now being expanded to meet the teacher shortage. The quality of education and training is increased. The teacher's salary lift gives some 60,000 teachers a higher salary. Measures to ensure that new arrivals are received in more schools are implemented. Holiday school in grades 8 and 9 becomes mandatory for all principals. The first years of school are a priority. Children's groups in preschool and Fritis have decreased. Early support should be given to those who lag behind with the math or reading. Those who are ahead will face new challenges. A read-write-count guarantee is introduced. A great reading-promoting effort is launched because reading is not only fantastic in itself but also fundamental to all other learning. Efforts are being made to improve the prevention of bullying by the school. More are employed in student health. The Swedish school system must offer high quality. Where you live or what school you go to should not determine your future. All schools should be good schools. During the spring, the Government receives the School Commission's proposal, which lays the foundations for clearer governance and a more equal school system. Medical care needs to be modernised. A new regional structure and increased coordination of specialised healthcare interventions ensure equal care throughout the country. The staffing problems are met with increased state subsidies and a special professional billion. Nurse and specialist nurse training has been expanded. More staff provides both higher quality in operations and better working conditions for employees in welfare. Efforts are made at the work environment. Forecasts for sick leave are now being written down. The social partners have once again demonstrated a sense of responsibility that is a fundamental element of the Swedish model. All parties are committed to improving the working environment and bringing down sickness rates. It is a victory that record numbers of people can celebrate their 100th birthday. Sweden should also be a welfare country for our elderly. The shortage of old-age housing should be removed. A new investment aid is introduced. Care for the elderly is strengthened with continued investment in more staff. A first step has been taken to abolish the unfair pensioner's tax. Society must also be there for those children and young people who most need support. Social care for children and young people is being strengthened. Priority is given to action against mental illness among young people. Family policy is being developed in order for all children to have the same life chances. Reforms for more equal parenthood continue. The rights of LGBTQ people remain a priority. A review is being carried out to adapt parental insurance to star families and modern working life. Work on safeguarding the rights of national minorities continues. Sami self-determination is strengthened. Sami culture and social life are protected. Competition for jobs is and will continue to be tough. A common structure of society must also create opportunities for those who have a short education or a disability. That is why more ways are being created into the labour market. The reception of new arrivals should be the largest where the job opportunities are the most. Modern emergency work is being introduced in the state. Extra services are developed so that more people can work in welfare. Employment support changes to be more accurate. The salary allowance is improved so that more people with a disability with reduced work capacity can get a job. A new disability policy is presented. The anti-discrimination work is strengthened. The conditions for exercising outdoor activities are improved. Everyone should have access to nature. Valuable nature is protected and managed. More natural forests are preserved. New marine reserves are established. The ambition for biodiversity is being raised. Support for both the sports movement and the outdoor organisations is increasing. Public health work is being upgraded. Lack of jobs, service that shuts down and a feeling of being outside or forgotten are found in many places. It's a dangerous development. The conditions for living and working should be good throughout the country. Public services throughout the country are to be improved step by step. The roll-out of broadband is further enhanced, as is the coverage of mobile telephony. The university is expanding. The presence of state authorities is increasing. Cultural schools, county theatres, museums, regional music institutions and libraries enable everyone to participate in and participate in cultural life. The focus on art and culture continues. Support for cinemas is increasing. School libraries can employ more staff. More children get the chance in culture school. Hundreds of thousands more visit the state museums, which again offer free entrance. Depopulation is countered by good conditions for small businesses and a diverse business environment. Strategic investments are being made in the important and growing tourism industry. Society is us – all the people, towns and villages together. O ch community building covers everyone. Mr President, I would like to During the first two years of the parliamentary term, several parties have entered into 15 important agreements, most recently on energy policy, new climate targets – and the entire financial framework. I would like to thank all of you who have been constructively involved in these agreements. Our cooperation makes Sweden stronger. Sweden is in the world, and the world is in Sweden. Now our country is being modernised with new steps towards sustainability and growth, with climate change, an equal knowledge school and more jobs. We are now strengthening our international engagement at all levels. Investment is now being made in what makes our country both strong and secure. The Swedish model should not be phased out. It's going to evolve. So it takes responsibility for the future, for the world on which we are so dependent and for a Sweden that stays together. Mr President, I would like to In addition to this, I would like to inform you that today I have decided to appoint Anna Ekström as the new High School and Knowledge Lift Minister.
