i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-11	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Kerstin Lundgren has asked me why the government has not compiled reports on the human rights situation in the world countries for 2014 or 2015. Sweden's voice for better compliance with human rights worldwide is important. Human rights are therefore a cornerstone of Swedish foreign policy and will continue to be so with unabated force. The government is active within the framework of both the EU and the UN, but also raises human rights throughout our bilateral relations. In response to a recent written parliamentary question, which specifically concerned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' MR reporting of individual countries, I outlined the reasons why the publication of country-specific human rights reports has been postponed since 2014. Let me elaborate on some of the things I presented then. The government has taken a holistic approach to the important work on human rights in foreign policy. Therefore, as announced by the Government in the 2015 Foreign Declaration, work began last year to produce a new letter on human rights, democracy and the rule of law that will be submitted to Parliament this summer. The letter has been widely based through consultations with civil society and the scientific community, among other things, and I have also informed the Foreign Affairs Committee of this work on 20 October last year. On the basis of this letter, the extensive and important work on the recovery of country-specific reports can then be initiated. It is important that new reports are produced – they are important and appreciated public documents that many use also outside the Government Office. It is intended that the reports should now deal more clearly with all three areas covered by the letter: human rights, democracy and the rule of law. As part of the feminist foreign policy, the reports will also pay more attention to the situation regarding the respect of human rights for women and girls. Therefore, at the same time as the letter is being finalised, extensive work is now under way to produce country-specific reports. The previous government chose to publish MR reports regionally, which means that the oldest MR reports are now from 2010. This time reports will not only be produced for one region at a time, but we choose to publish reports for all regions of the world. The reports will be signed in 2016 and will be published in 2017. The government thus raises its ambition in relation to what was done under the alliance government between 2011 and 2014 and returns to producing reports for all regions of the world. In addition, the reports will therefore have the broader perspective of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and in particular highlight the situation regarding the respect of human rights for women and girls. Kerstin Lundgren has also asked me whether the Swedish campaign for a seat in the UN Security Council has contributed to a self-censorship in the Swedish Foreign Service and whether there is a risk that the government will abandon its foreign policy principles in order to win votes in the campaign for a seat in the UN Security Council. Sweden's candidacy for the UN Security Council is built around the substance policy we stand for, and the work is about dialogue with UN Member States on global cooperation and on this substance. This dialogue is the great proceeds of the candidacy work regardless of whether Sweden is elected to the Security Council or not. It is impossible to achieve results on the major global issues if we do not understand the starting points for all the other countries with which we must find solutions. Having dialogue areas is not the same as being uncritical, and we have not shrunk our foreign policy principles to win votes. The last time that Sweden was a member of the Security Council, the period 1997-1998, we were able to act as a guarantor of the international legal and humanitarian perspective and helped make it natural to raise issues of international humanitarian law and respect for human rights when various crises were dealt with in the Security Council. Involvement in these matters is not only a fundamental part of our foreign policy identity and the substance of candidature is leaning on, but also an important part of why we want to sit on the Security Council. There has been no call or encouragement for self-censorship in the foreign administration by the management. On the contrary, it is often stressed that we should continue to give priority to our strong commitment to human rights and other issues of principle. The government's actual political action on human rights issues is evidence of this. Similarly, our position as a Security Council member will prove that we are giving priority to this perspective also in the Security Council, with its special responsibility for global peace and security, and which can take decisions that are legally binding on 193 states.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I would like to start by saying that the answer has been delayed because of me, because I could not when the Minister for Foreign Affairs could. Now we have found a time in common. I think it was a good order, so thank you also for trying to find common times!
i-SDD2mGPED6SqkhJ1W4ZWAR	You're welcome! ) However, as far as the answer to my interpellation is concerned, I am still a little perplexed. What is the reason for not continuing to publish human rights reports? The reason for producing a new letter to the Riksdag cannot prevent 2014 – 2015 from working with continued regional reporting. I'd like to know the reason why it's broken. Otherwise, the work could have continued in order to be able to take on before the government started the second work in 2015. I do not know, Madam President, whether the letter represents a new strategy for the work, because the current strategy that Sida is working on – freedom from oppression – aims to strengthen it through human rights, gender equality, democracy and the rule of law. It is precisely these issues that the Minister for Foreign Affairs actually mentions for a forthcoming letter or strategy. It has been called a little different during the journey. So I'm still curious. Why does the government stop with regional reporting? I do not want to be conspiratorial, but it is an event that looks like an idea that the work and the letter will be reported to Parliament in July, as I think it has been said. The Parliament is not gathered, but it is also after the vote on a seat in the Security Council. That letter, of course, is not decisive in this context, but it is still a bit of an event that looks like a thought. One can also think about which region it was next to be highlighted. Was it Africa – not North Africa but Africa – which was next in line? Is that perhaps the reason why the government did not want to proceed with regional accounts, which would have been natural for us to have seen? On the question of self-censorship, that signal comes not only from the air, but from what is moving out there. There and within the Ministry for Foreign Affairs it is said that it is reported but that nothing happens because there is no interest in critical reports right now. It is possible to read about and in other ways take advantage of the type of signals that are out there. It is, of course, important that this is not the case. However, there is no clear rebuttal by a clear and strong voice from the Foreign Minister when human rights are violated. It may also be a reason for highlighting this issue.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-31	Madam President, I would like I am very tired of these conspiratory statements, which are completely without foundation, Kerstin Lundgren. Does Kerstin Lundgren and the others really think that our voice is missing? Look at the statements we make, and look at how we act in Geneva, in the UN and in the EU. It is we who are often the only voice standing up for human rights and for democracy and who are arguing very strongly for this position. What's that supposed to mean? You are starting every critical speech about the Swedish UN candidacy by supporting it. Then you undermine all confidence by claiming that we would give up our principles. It is nonsense, and it is directly wrong. In every context, we stand up and talk about human rights. Just follow the debate in social media, and you can see that we are not invisible or silent. On the contrary, it is a very lively debate that often stems from the fact that we stand up for human rights. You must stop undermining this campaign by saying things that are taken completely out of the air. We don't have the resources to run two parallel tracks. Already when we started, we talked about how we intend to tackle human rights, the strategy and the way in which we work on the reports in a completely new way. We can't run two parallel tracks. We don't have people and resources to do that. We are now putting this in place and finding new models, and we are going to do it for all regions at the same time. Of course it will take power and energy. It will require that we consult all countries and that we have new reporting systems. That's what we're preparing. We have also appointed an ambassador for human rights. We work very actively in all areas of human rights issues. That is why I think that you must at some point be content with the answers that we are giving. It is a question, as I have described, of changing the entire reporting system. It will require us to use resources wisely and prepare in a solid and professional way also at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. We cannot maintain, as it were, two parallel systems, but we are now changing this. It requires that we prepare properly. We do not abandon our foreign policy principles for the sake of the Security Council candidacy. After all, all that we do is to the benefit of our foreign policy contacts. It is therefore a good thing that we can have a dialogue with all the countries with which we are discussing today. And we never forget where we come from or what are the basic principles of our security and foreign policy. We are saying this, and I think that we can follow this very closely both in the context of the European Union and in other contexts. This is a cornerstone and an inalienable part of our candidacy. As I said, we have also appointed a special ambassador for human rights, and this will be a central part of our foreign policy with unabated force.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-38	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for this. I very much hope that human rights will be, as they have been, an important part of the Swedish voice. Sometimes we have been criticized. The Foreign Minister has also received criticism when she was clear and criticised Saudi Arabia. There was a clear backlash. It is clear that it shows that when Sweden's voice is clear and critical towards countries, others are disturbed. It's part of the role. Therefore, it is important that no one gets the impression that Sweden will be quiet, or be a quieter actor, in the Security Council for Human Rights, but dare to criticise, dare to be clear and dare to be open – not only in individual meetings behind closed doors. Madam President, I would like I was surprised. In my oblivion, I thought there was still work going on. On the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' own website you can read about the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' reports on human rights. It reads as follows: Every year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs compiles reports on the human rights situation in the countries of the world. Since 2002, the reports are public and can be read here on the Government's Human Rights website. In 2013, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs examined the human rights situation in the countries of Asia and Oceania (ASO). The ASO reports were published in May 2014. ..................................................... The government's human rights website has an average of over 30 000 visits per month. ..................................................... The teacher's guide for upper secondary school on human rights in 2014 also highlights these MR reports and refers to them, and it is said that they can be downloaded on the government's website. The site has a quarter of a million visitors each year. But, as I said, this has not been updated after 2014. Many high school teachers, young people and others who go in looking for annual updates of the reports promised will be inquiring about this. There has been no new developments, which is of course interesting. I looked at the report that came on Ethiopia 2 010. It is a fairly comprehensive report on human rights. I assume that this report has been used and updated in some form because the government has been in Ethiopia repeatedly and met with representatives of Ethiopia. It would be valuable if we Members of Parliament, but also the 30,000 who visit the website each month – high school young people and others – had the opportunity to get an updated version and not just an older version from 2010. This could have been the case if regional accounts had been continued, which has not happened. I'm sorry about that. On the third point, on the risk of moving away from the human rights issues in order to win votes in the campaign for the vote to the Security Council, I can say that we have a previous experience in relation to the Human Rights Council. One of the signals that came was that they did not vote for us being too strong proponents of human rights. They were therefore afraid to get a Swedish voice in this context. It could be that some people have given advice to the government to speak a little quieter in this area. Otherwise, more people may be annoyed than benevolent when it comes to the end of the vote to a seat in the Security Council.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-48	Madam President, I would like I think you have to come up with some kind of proof that it is. Otherwise, I think that the opposition should stop saying things like this. It's completely out of the air. Go out and ask any country in the Geneva context, in the UN context or in the EU if Sweden's voice on human rights and democracy has been silenced! With regard to the issue of migration and refugees, there was only one Prime Minister who raised the issue of human rights, and that was the Swedish one. It was Stefan Löfven. We were a single voice on these issues when this very important and crucial issue was discussed. It was Stefan Löfven, and it was Sweden. We have continued to be active on all these issues. Just go out and watch Facebook and other social media and what we publish. Read my speeches, or listen to what we say at press conferences and in debates! Has our vote on human rights been silenced? You have to stop with those statements, which are completely out of the air and which I would like to reject vigorously. Now I say this for the fourth or perhaps the fifth time: we started last year to produce a new letter on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It will be submitted to the Riksdag this summer. This requires a great deal of resources from an Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which is already under pressure even when it comes to working on new issues such as pandemics and other things. We can't do multiple parallel processes. The disadvantage of the previous government's strategy, as I have said, was that one region was taken at a time. Then it took a very long time to get an updated strategy. Now we are going to take all the regions of the world and all the countries of the world and try to put it together. This requires us to pool our resources and focus them on making a new product. In the meantime, we have appointed an MR ambassador, and we are working very actively on the issues. The country-specific reports are to be published for all regions at the same time, and this requires that we work with the collected and are not involved in several parallel processes. Anyone who wants to search for information on different issues and about different countries will be able to find such information on the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' website. We will give more space to democracy and the rule of law, and we will also specifically add to the issue of the situation of girls and women around the world. It is clear that it will require a greater effort; we need to reorganise it and look at the form and format it should take. We continue to give priority to the strong commitment to human rights and other issues of principle. Our actual action on human rights issues is proof of this. Similarly, our position as a Security Council member will prove that we are giving priority to this perspective also in the Security Council. There's no contradiction here. It is in the Security Council that we want another platform to pursue these issues. Then you can't be afraid, and I think I've proven that myself. This is not just a question, it is a question of time and time again. I also stand back here to publicly present our views on various issues in interpellation debates and Question Time. I would like to continue with that, and so will I. We are in dialogue, and we have new topics for discussion. We shall use them to pursue these questions of principle.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-55	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I hope that this will be a success in the Security Council vote and that Sweden will be a strong voice which is also public. It is one of our classic roles: to take the public position and also to criticize. That is exactly what the Foreign Minister did, which I think was quite right, with regard to Saudi Arabia and the way in which they handle – or trample on and stones – human rights. In the same way, I think it is important that Sweden has a clear voice and that no one hesitates when it comes to that we are prepared to use the voice also in public. It is one thing as Foreign Minister to meet his colleagues in closed rooms and another to take the public debate and be clear. This has been one of the reasons why our MR reports have been important. They've been through. When I look at what it says about Ethiopia, for example, I can read about women's rights and how bad it is with this very thing. For example, 74% of women and girls are sexually stymied. I am reading about the extensive trade in women that is taking place mainly with countries in the Middle East. There's more to read here. When it comes to children's rights, it is also about how they are trampled on. These are some of the areas to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs attached in his response. More such – extremely important – areas are the right to education, the right to work, the rights of minorities, the rule of law and the rule of law. An update of the situation would have been useful. Not least when the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister and others have travelled many times to Ethiopia and Addis Abeba, it would have been important to have a clear voice in this area too.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-59	Madam President, I would like We have a clear voice! We are addressing these issues in our contacts with all these 192 countries. The Prime Minister has also done so during all visits, in bilateral and multilateral fora. That is the very point of our going there and of our commitment, both in the context of the European Union and in the context of the United Nations. We are doing this in order to be able to express our voice. We do so also through all our public statements and through our speeches. Much of this, not least the action plan on feminist foreign policy, can be read on our website. It is possible to follow exactly everything that we prioritise and what we mean must be a public message. All I am saying is also a public message and a very clear expression of our policy and of our priorities. I do not think anyone can say that we have been quiet or that we should not have put forward our views. Now is the time. There's three weeks left. I hope that we can put aside party squabbles and support candidacy – not by trying to undermine faith at the same time, but by saying that this is important. It is important for us to be able to put forward Sweden's voice also in terms of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-62	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Christian Holm Barenfeld and Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby have asked me what the government is doing to support the opposition and other freedom defenders in Venezuela, how this work can develop and how criticism has been made to the regime. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. I share the concerns of the two interpellants about the serious situation in Venezuela. The political confrontation between President Maduro and his government, on the one hand, and the parliament dominated by the opposition, on the other, is very damaging to the country. The acute shortage of food and medicines justifies talking about a humanitarian crisis. The high level of violence is causing further concern. It is therefore necessary that constructive dialogue between the government and the opposition be established as soon as possible. It is also essential that both parties respect the democratic rules of the game and, in particular, the legitimacy and constitutional powers of Parliament. The Swedish Embassy in Colombia is side-accredited to Venezuela. During a visit to Caracas, the Embassy maintains ongoing contact with both the government and representatives of the Venezuelan opposition and civil society. Swedish representatives take every opportunity to invite both the government and the opposition in Venezuela to dialogue. Swedish diplomats participated in the trial of opposition leader López Leopoldo and have expressed criticism of the imprisonment of opposition leaders to Venezuelan government representatives. Within the EU, Sweden belongs to the Member States that are pushing for a clear and active line of support for dialogue and respect for democracy in Venezuela. It is urgent that international actors show commitment to democracy in Venezuela. The countries of the region, as well as regional organisations such as OAS and Unasur, have a particularly important role to play.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-68	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. The issue of democracy and human rights is basically an ever-important issue and, by extension, the discussion that took place in the interpellation debate here before between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Kerstin Lundgren. Venezuela is a serious case in which we see that democracy does not have a great deal of room in society. It has been so for a long time. After all, former President Hugo Chávez began a clear dismantling of democracy in the country. It was an increase in repression of the political opposition. These were restrictions on human rights and democratic principles. Media freedom was severely curtailed and curtailed. Companies were nationalized and confiscated. Mr Chávez' enthusiasm for introducing what he himself called the socialism of the 21st century has had dire consequences. Since Chávez went out of time and Nicolá s Maduro took over, we have not seen any improvements either. Its worse, the media picture here in Sweden is not always correct. We could see last week that SVT reported that Venezuela's problems are due to oil prices falling and that the country has lost in economics. It is clear that all countries dependent on oil are affected by falling oil prices, but Venezuela's major problem is that they have a president who does not accept democratic rules and who does not respect the election results of December 2015. He has stated today that a referendum on whether or not to remain in office will not accept, despite the fact that 200 000 signatures are needed to bring it about, and the opposition has accumulated over 1.8 million signatures. I have put this interpellation because I think it has been a little quiet about this from the Swedish government. I will not now go into whether it has to do with the candidacy of the UN Security Council or anything else. Now I know that the Swedish Government is running a lot of foreign policy through the EU, and that is what we are supposed to do. That is a good thing, because if the whole of Europe takes a clear stand, we will have greater pressure. If more than half a billion people compared to just under 10 million put pressure, it becomes clearer. Nevertheless, I think that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish Government on the issue of Venezuela have been very quiet – and so has the other government party. Nor have I heard anything from the Minister for Development on this matter, and it may not be directly on her table. It becomes even more worrying when you take note of what is said by the government's support party, the Left Party. Both Jonas Sjöstedt and Hans Linde and various other representatives in many cases express their enthusiasm for Chavism and the nationalizations and the current socialist situation. They commend the country for its democratic and social development. It is available on paper, in newspapers and in statements on their own websites, so I assume it is not misquoted. It would be interesting to hear more about what the Foreign Minister is doing, has done and intends to do in the future. The answer speaks of a constructive dialogue between the government and the opposition. I believe that the opposition, which is essentially not an opposition but a parliamentary majority, is trying to be constructive, but it has a dictator or dictator-like President who does not provide opportunities for any form of democratic dialogue. I therefore hope that Sweden will put extremely strong pressure on this regime.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Wallström, for your answer. Nevertheless, I am concerned when I hear the answer, because I do not think Mrs Wallström has understood what is at the heart of the problem. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that constructive dialogue between the government and the opposition is important, even if Mr Barenfeld also mentioned, and that it is also of the utmost importance that both parties respect the democratic rules of the game. Venezuela has a relatively recent parliament. In the elections that took place on 6 December, the opposition won a landslide victory and today has two thirds of the seats in Parliament. They can, under the Constitution, take a number of decisions and push through legislative changes that could improve the situation in Venezuela and the situation of the venezue lanian people. It is not possible, however, since, on 23 December, only 17 days after the elections, President Maduro appointed 13 new judges to the Supreme Court, appointments which were highly political. These judges are blocking all proposals coming from Parliament. In this way, President Maduro has already compromised all democratic principles. While the people are starving and the unrest is increasing in the streets of Venezuela, President Maduro sits safely in his palace watching while the people he claims to be leading and protecting are starving and dying because of non-existent care, electricity being extinguished and crime increasing avalanche. Maduro blames the opposition, well aware that it is precisely Nicol Maduro himself who brutally robbed the opposition and his people of any democratic means of improvement. I would therefore like to give Mrs Wallström the opportunity to give her view on how she perceives the democratic balance and respect for democracy on the basis of her own words: .....................................................
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-84	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants so much for drawing attention to this issue. I can agree with a great deal of what is being said and believe that we have basically the same picture of what is happening. But I was going to tell you a little bit more about how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working on this issue. Our embassy in Colombia, as I said, is side-accredited to Venezuela, and has an ongoing dialogue on the situation in the country with the government, with representatives of the Venezuelan opposition and with civil society. Sweden also belongs to the Member States that are pushing Europe, as I said earlier, to keep a clear and active line in support of dialogue and respect for democracy. We must, of course, accept elections and referendums, and we must respect democratic rules of the game. Mr Mogherini has expressed the importance of this, for example in a debate on Venezuela in the European Parliament on 10 May. And Sweden is working to ensure that the EU continues to be clear in the message that democratic principles are to be protected and that the results of the parliamentary elections in December need to be respected. The EU delegation in Caracas is also in contact with the opposition and is working towards a dialogue between the government and the opposition in Venezuela. The judgment of the opposition leader Leopoldo Ló pez raises, of course, concerns about the independence of the judiciary. Criticism of the judgment has been expressed through the EU and other regional and international organisations. The Swedish Embassy in Bogotá has also been present at the trial of Ló pez. It is necessary to have this constructive dialogue between the government and the opposition. Both President Maduro and the new parliamentary majority are elected, and the crisis cannot be resolved without cooperation between them. We therefore take every opportunity to call both the government and the opposition in Venezuela to dialogue. It is also important that international actors show commitment to democracy. As I said, the countries of the region and regional organisations such as OAS and Unasur have an important role to play. The Vatican can also play an important role in this. And the region's countries and partner organizations are among those best placed to play a faciliterating and mediating role. As you know, former Spanish Prime Minister Zapatero has been there with ex-Presidents Leone l Fernández, the Do Minican Republic, and Martí n Torrijos, Panama. They travel to Caracas to establish the dialogue between government and opposition. And in early talks with the Venezuelan government and the opposition have taken place in the Dominican Republic. The results of these remain to be seen. I do not in any way share the Left Party's enthusiasm for any of those leaders, as perhaps Christian suggested. I think Christian and I are doing the same analysis of the situation. It is important right now to ensure that it does not escalate into violence. Now it has also developed into a humanitarian crisis. One thing after another is falling apart because of very poor leadership and the President's mismanagement.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-92	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Foreign Minister once again. As I said, this is a serious situation. From a democratic point of view, the December elections can be said to have been held in a good way. We do not take a position on which side is winning; but the democratic opposition was given a strong position. At the same time, it can always be discussed whether it was a democratic election or not. The freedom of the media has long been limited, and the possibilities for the opposition to operate in the country are still uncertain. Opposition politicians are imprisoned on unclear grounds, harassed and so on. And we've been reading reports of some kind of mafia supported by the government, by the President. I shall not accuse the Foreign Minister, who is not a left-wing party, of representing the Left Party's views on the matter. This has been a big issue for many years. Sweden can of course be a driver in different ways and leave a little bit further, even if you are working on the issue within the EU. For example, we have had the privilege of debating the situation in Belarus a number of times in this House. The situation in the country is a little different now – we are not going to discuss that now – but Sweden was very clearly the driving force in the EU to bring about sanctions and different positions, which then became the EU's policy. Is Sweden involved in driving what is to become EU policy? If so, what concrete proposals are there to put severe pressure on the President? Dialogue in all honour, but I do not think it is possible to democratise a dictator-like person. Multiplicity more signatures have been collected than needed to bring about a referendum on the President's goods or non-goods. Perhaps it would be a clear position if the EU called on the President to actually implement it. I Googled a little, did some research, on the Secretary of State and Venezuela. The only thing that comes up is a tweet from 8 December 2015 about that particular election in Venezuela. The Minister welcomed the peaceful outcome of the elections; that is a good thing. But it would be interesting to hear more concrete statements. I have had this discussion and have debated it quite a few times, with government representatives and left-wing parties here in this House and elsewhere. Google is good in certain situations. You get a lot of information. There is – it was in any case during the time of the alliance government – an obscure small group called the Hands off Venezuela Sweden which is in solidarity with the socialist revolution in Venezuela. The group is run by a number of left-wing associations around Sweden but also by LO, SSU, ABF and so on. The Group supports the socialist revolution, which is the basis of the major problems in Venezuela today. It is good if the Foreign Minister does not support it. But it is serious that quite a few SSUs, S-Associations, LO-Associations and ABF departments in different counties clearly express support for the socialist revolution in Venezuela. The Minister's youth federation at home in our constituency, Värmland, has also expressed such views. We have had debates there. It would therefore be good if the Minister could make it clear that the government does not support the socialist revolution in Venezuela.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-100	Madam President, I would like As Christian Barenfeld said, the Venezuelan people are now putting their hope in a new election for the presidency. Christian Holm Barenfeld also described that they have far passed the requirement for the number of signatures in order to bring about a referendum. Parliament in Caracas waited a long time for the form which gives them permission to do what they have just done, namely to collect the signatures. On April 26, it happened. I myself was a guest of the opposition in Caracas and was present in Parliament at the historic moment. The joy was tangible, for everyone except for Chá vez's supporters, who cast us out—we were a delegation from Latin America and Europe. They yelled at us, called part of our delegation murderers and felt that we had polluted the Venezuelan Parliament. They said that before they, all Chá vez supporters in Parliament, marched out of Parliament. For us here in the Swedish Parliament, democracy can sometimes be taken for granted. But that day in Caracas it became painfully clear that this is not the case in Venezuela. It still felt like progress. The opposition, the majority in Parliament, applauded us. Especially memorable was a bunch of young people sitting in the stands with posters on which they thanked the outside world for finally showing their support. Unfortunately, joy was short - lived. Precisely two hours afterwards, President Maduro introduced a two-day working week for all public offices. The reason for this was a growing electricity crisis in the country, and the closure of the offices would save electricity. The electricity crisis is very real. Electricity rationing and power outages now belong to everyday life in this once rich country. However, by introducing a two-day working week, Maduro can very effectively delay the process that needs to be put in place in order for a referendum on his future to take place. Why is he stalling? What's he got to gain from that? Well, according to Venezuela's constitution, the referendum must be held before the President has been in half his term of office. If this does not happen, there will be no new presidential elections. This critical limit falls on 10 January 2017. In other words, Maduro can sit quietly. He may appoint new judges to the Supreme Court. He can shut down public offices and institutions and let his people starve. Although the opposition has a significant majority in parliament, the President has power in his hand. Madam President, I would like In this connection, I would like to ask Foreign Minister Wallström once again to clarify how she views democracy in Venezuela. I was happy when the Foreign Minister called it the President's misrule. Because that's exactly what it is. Although we may not be able to influence democracy in Venezuela and get a presidential election, it is very important for the opposition in Venezuela today to get clear signals from the outside world that we see their struggle, that we see that democracy is under constant threat in Venezuela. I would therefore like to ask Foreign Minister Wallström how she intends to stand up for the opposition in Venezuela in concrete terms and show them that we are seeing them. Maduro is now trying to divide the opposition, which consists of 15 parties, from Social Democrats to Liberals and Conservatives. How does Minister Wallström intend to show her support in a concrete way, so that Maduro does not succeed in his plan, namely to win once again a presidential election?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-108	Madam President, I would like Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, both for what you are doing and for what you are saying. There are many things that are easy to agree with. I think I can say something about the parliamentary elections and something about how we work now. What you say and, above all, what you do is important. I don't know if I've heard a lot of suggestions about what can be done. There were many who commented that the parliamentary elections in Venezuela were conducted without great fraud – on the basis of what could be estimated – and that they were conducted peacefully. The victory of the opposition was also accepted by President Maduro. However, after the new Parliament took office on 1 January, there has been a confrontation and a freeze between the government and Parliament. Furthermore, the Supreme Court has on several occasions, without exception, ruled in support of the Government. Recent developments, as I said, raise concern among all of us about democracy, human rights and the rule of law. It is important that freedom of expression is respected, that the judiciary is independent of government power and that widespread violence is prosecuted in criminal matters. These are fundamental principles of the rule of law. The President is democratically elected on a mandate until 2019, and it is important that the Venezuelan Government chooses a path that safeguards democratic principles and renews reform efforts to deepen democracy and the rule of law. Like the whole of Europe, we take the difficult economic situation in Venezuela very seriously, and there we are closely following developments. Within the EU, the issue has been discussed at working group level, and the EU is currently preparing for several possible scenarios, including the need for humanitarian aid. However, for the EU to be able to provide humanitarian aid, there must be an invitation from the Venezuelan Government. There is no such thing for the day. President Maduro and his government are responsible for protecting and protecting citizens' rights, and that is what we must point out. We must mobilise at every moment and also ensure that we do not create a situation in which it escalates into violence. Instead, we must try to find a way forward, especially through efforts to create a dialogue between government and opposition that can take the country out of the very difficult situation. Of course, we fully support these attempts, but, as I have described, we operate primarily through our embassy and via the European Union. We support the EU's efforts to come up with different scenarios, and we are pushing ahead, as in the case of Belarus. We belong to the group which believes that the EU should be absolutely active and show that all the Member States are behind the efforts to establish constructive dialogue while preparing for different scenarios.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-115	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I myself, like my colleague, have visited Venezuela on numerous occasions and regularly meet both parliamentarians and representatives of the various opposition parties – or basically the majority parties in this House. There has been confrontation, but that confrontation has not fundamentally come from Parliament. The only thing Parliament really does is to demand to act as a parliament. But there is a confrontative, aggressive and undemocratic president who refuses to approve of this. The election in which the President was elected was not quite as democratic as the parliamentary elections, where some parts can also be questioned but where it was still a clear decision even if it was adjusted by some percentage here or there. The president was elected in an election that was very even between the opposition candidate and the president himself. Most of the evidence suggests that there was quite a lot that did not work on election day itself, and given that the candidates who could have been good contenders were imprisoned and expelled, it is of course difficult to try to claim that the President is democratically elected. It is correct that the President and the government have a huge responsibility for the people. It is they who are directly responsible for people starving, suffering and actually dying in hospitals because there are neither medicines nor nutrients. I think it would be good for the Swedish Government to be clear about its criticism in the public debate and to say that it does not accept the President's way of governing Venezuela and the abuse of human rights and democracy.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-120	Madam President, I would like I thank Foreign Minister Wallström for the answer I have received. The current situation in Venezuela leaves very little hope for the people who live there. When we were in Venezuela, we met López Leopoldo Mrs Lilian Tintori. As Christian Holm Barenfeld said, many of those who could challenge Maduro are in prison. There is today a very active work on the part of the opposition to try to get López Leopoldo released. Again, what Foreign Minister Wallström said in the interpellation response was very much about respecting each other in Venezuela, having good communication with each other and respecting Parliament's legitimacy and constitutional powers. I still have a hope and an expectation that a Foreign Minister who aspires at a place in the UN Security Council will stand up for the human rights and democracy that Mrs Wallström mentioned in the previous interpellation debate that we stand up for. I want Sweden to do so, and I support Mrs Wallström and the Socialist Government in standing up for this. But when it comes to Venezuela, it's strangely quiet, I think. We have not heard much criticism from the government of how democracy in Venezuela is managed. Unfortunately, the response I receive from Mrs Wallström can only be seen as a naive wish on the part of the Swedish Foreign Minister. But I hope I am wrong, Mrs Wallström.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-124	Madam President, I would like None of the interpellants have anything else to suggest what should be done. I haven't heard a single suggestion. They wonder: does the Foreign Minister perhaps want to say something more? But it's what we do that counts. We must act through the European Union. We must be clear in what we say, but above all we must act through the European Union. As you know, the European Union has very limited cooperation with Venezuela, and implementation has been greatly hampered by the situation in that country. That is why the EU delegation in Caracas is doing all it can to conduct a political dialogue with the government. For we cannot impose ourselves on the Venezuelan Government or its people, but, for example, if we are to obtain humanitarian aid, it must be done at the invitation of the government. A dialogue between government and opposition must be established in order to bring about change. You can't force yourself in the country. I have already said that I believe that what is happening now is a misrule on the part of the President. That's a statement that's valid. After Mr Mogherini spoke, official contacts with the EU delegation were frozen. It also makes it much harder to get help for the Venezuelan people. That is why it is very careful how we shape our efforts. We should work towards achieving this political dialogue and a way forward in which we give support to the democratic forces. We will combine this by working through Europe to be both clear enough and effective enough in what we do.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Emanuel Öz has asked me whether and in such cases when I and the government intend to recognise the genocide in 1915. It is important to understand in depth questions of historical mass abuse and of a government's role in analysing and defining contemporary and historical mass assaults. The Government therefore commissioned Professor Pål Wrange to review the issues of mass assaults in 1915 and other abuses. We have received Professor Wrange's report, which shows the complexity of the issues. As I previously answered both written questions and interpellations on this subject, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is now studying the report and how it can help us to understand and deal with various aspects of abuse in the past, not only in 1915. However, it is this government's intention to continue to react and act against all abuses, if they were subsequently found to be war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide. The terminology issue does not prevent us from acting forcefully when abuse is taking place today and does not stand in the way of truth-seeking and reconciliation around events in the past. But it is also important that we respect the concepts and processes created to prevent mass abuse and demand responsibility. All survivors of the 1915 abuse and other similar events, for which memory is both immense and alive, have the right to demand that the issue be dealt with in a serious and responsible manner.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-135	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his initial reply. The Foreign Minister is probably well acquainted with this issue by now, as it is constantly recurring and topical. There are strong reasons why this is the case. It is urgent for the government to recognise the genocide of 1915, also known as seyfo, in the present Turkey on the Syrians, Assyrians, Armenians and other minority groups who then fell victim. The Alliance government did nothing at all about this issue during the eight years of power. On the contrary, it seemed regrettable to Turkey when the Parliament recognised the genocide in 2010. I got the feeling that the previous government did not want to get into conflict with Turkey. We all know that Turkey strongly opposes this issue and is doing everything possible to deny that genocide has been committed. Instead, we Social Democrats have raised the issue and pushed it forward in a strong and clear way. We in the party have taken a decision to recognise the genocide, and we have also done so in the Riksdag. During our 2014 election campaign, we went out to the people and promised that we would acknowledge the genocide if we came to power. We were therefore many, not only in Sweden but also internationally, who were happy and looked forward to recognition once we came to power. I therefore find it difficult to understand the rejection that the government made to this issue once the government took office. I honestly find that attitude a bit boring, because I think it is important that we try to fulfil the promises we made during the election campaign. The Foreign Minister has mentioned Pål Wrange's mission to investigate the matter, and this investigation has come back to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which is now looking at the report. It's good that at least that happens. I can also agree that the issue is complex and that it should be dealt with with with great respect and caution. But it is also important to look at the question of what it actually is, and in my opinion it is a question of genocide. Recognising the events of 1915 as a genocide is not just something that has been taken out of the air. We must bear in mind that it has passed over 100 years since this happened. For this long time, the genocide issue has been investigated, analysed, researched, debated and discussed on several occasions, both in Sweden and in other parts of the world, by journalists, writers, lawyers, politicians – you name it. After many years of this, it has been assessed as a matter of genocide. The Social Democrats and other parliamentary parties have reached the same conclusion. Some twenty other countries, both inside and outside Europe, have reached the same conclusion. Last time the German Bundestag made the same assessment. It would be a shame if all of these, including us, were to be mistaken in our assessment. In view of this, I would like to say that the issue should be clarified and clarified. I would therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs once again: will the government subsequently recognise the genocide? If the answer is no, why not? What exactly remains to be investigated?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-147	Madam President, I would like It's an interesting interpellation. We have had many debates on the concept of genocide and how we, as a Parliament and a government, should relate to it, whether these are ongoing events which essentially suggest that the genocide that is going on or historical events where everything suggests that there has been genocide, such as the Ottoman genocide. I am among those who did not vote in favour of the Parliament making this kind of position in international law. I note that there is an investigation, and it would of course be useful to have access to it. I read some known online information about possible measures. I wonder if the Minister would like to confirm these. One possible measure is: It is by no means clear that a third state should act at all in the case of a historical mass assault. If a third State nevertheless decides to do so, it may be a matter of quiet diplomacy or of publicly calling on the parties to jointly examine their history. This is a request that we from the Swedish side have previously addressed to both Armenia and Turkey, if we are talking about precisely the Ottoman genocide. It also says that an official announcement of the government's position on the substance of the matter should only be used if it can be assumed to lead to more positive than negative consequences for the conflict in question. Is it these three tracks that the government is considering when it comes to which path to choose? It would be interesting to have this confirmed here today. That was my reason for joining this debate – which I am conducting in many places, not just here. After the Riksdag, I was in Gaziantep and debated with students at the university about these very issues. I am conducting the debate at home in Södertälje, in Parliament, in the Council of Europe and also in Turkey and Armenia. It is important that we sort this out. It is also important that we find a position that is sustainable over time. Would the Minister like to confirm?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-157	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the interpellation, for what Mr Emanuel said and also for Kerstin Lundgren's speech, because now there is an intellectually honest debate. The issue is difficult and complex. It is about the very emotional and the right thing to admit the terrible thing that has happened and to show that you understand it. Both reports from the Swedish Embassy in Constantinople and contemporary research at that time testify to an incredible number of people who were murdered, deported or forced to flee their homes. A significant part of the Ottoman Christian population was killed. You have to start by acknowledging that you have seen this and understand the tremendous things that have happened. It is important that we remember and learn something from dark chapters in our history. For a government, there is much to be done now, as Kerstin says, and it contains all this: what is the role of a government? What role should you take on to show that you understand and that you have learned something and, above all, because you are acting now? How do we then use the legal instruments that have been made available to us and the legislative frameworks that exist, for example, in the form of international conventions? The convention that regulates how to use the concept of genocide is a rather difficult convention. It has made it difficult for us to use the word that most of the time comes to us, because we do not have many words to capture the terrible thing we see committed against Yazidi, Christians, Assyrians or other groups in ongoing wars or historically. We understood that this would continue to be very complex. It wasn't easy for the previous government either. There are very few government representatives or foreign ministers who have used and established this concept. It is easier for a parliament, and several parliaments around the world have done so. However, very few governments – as far as I know, only two – have done so in this case, and then there are a number of parliaments. This is done for sincere reasons relating to the need to protect both the search for truth and how to contribute to reconciliation. It is thought: if we are to make a historical name, then we must do so so so that it contributes to a reconciliation process. We must safeguard the conventions that we have and the instruments that have been negotiated for many years and which have eventually been agreed upon. That is why it is sometimes difficult to explain to the common man and woman what we are doing. They think: It's simple-- just say it's one or the other. But it stands for something much more. It also stands for accountability, and it stands for what a government should do. That's why we're looking at all the different ways forward. It also has to do with what it looks like politically right now and what can best contribute to a reconciliation process. We look at this, we talk to different groups about this and we discuss it internally at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and in the government. We will return as soon as we feel ready for a line ahead. But it is these three roads that are in practice concerned.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-166	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I am well aware that this is a complex issue, and I know what issues the government has to deal with. But what has persisted so far, in all these years and in all the countries that have taken a position on the issue, should nevertheless give an indication of which direction you can move without having to be ashamed as a government as well. In the investigation that has been carried out, the investigator has sent the question back to the government and said that the government may investigate and analyse it further. In fact, it gives the government a free hand to decide for itself how to approach this question. For this reason, there are really no obstacles, either legal or political, to the recognition of the genocide. Instead of taking a decision, however, the Minister for Foreign Affairs explains that there are still some investigative measures to be taken. I am a little worried that this is being made an investigation, that one investigation and the other analysis are being carried out, that they are replacing each other and that this is taking a lot of time, so that the years pass and the issue just runs out into the sand. It would be a shame to end up in such a position. I hope that the Foreign Minister will be able to explain the timetable and say whether we can soon get a clear position on this matter. The United Nations Convention on Genocide has been mentioned. I think it gives a pretty good definition of what constitutes genocide. Just look there, and you can see that the statements set out in Article 2 fit the events of 1915. I believe that this should make it easier to admit that genocide has been committed. What is also interesting about the genocide convention is that it is the first time that the concept of genocide is introduced into international law. The authors of the Convention have, among other things, looked back at the Holocaust but also at the genocide of the Armenians in Turkey in 1915. I believe that it provides quite a strong support for recognizing that genocide has been committed. Madam President, I would like It is important for us to be able to speak in terms of the genocide, without having to worry about the effects that it may have. It is important that Sweden becomes a voice for peace and justice in the world. Frankly, I think that the government and the Foreign Minister are normally in favour of a strong, courageous and feminist foreign policy. This also means that we have a good reputation internationally. On this particular issue, however, there is a great deal to be said about being a little afraid of getting into conflict with Turkey. I would not say that is the case, but those claims are all around. One fact is that if we do nothing about this issue, it feels a little bit like letting Turkey get away with it. Then Turkey can move forward, while the victims of these events cannot do so. Then it will be very sad to take the talks with them. The question is, what are we going to tell them?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-175	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for confirming that it is the three tracks that I mentioned that are the subject of consideration in the government's handling of Parliament's decision on genocide, a decision that I did not take part in, because I do not believe that Parliament should take international legal positions! It is always a difficulty to weigh one against the other. We have just had a legal process, initiated by the Security Council, with regard to the former Yugoslavia and have had a trial of questions of genocide, crimes against humanity and so on. It is, of course, a very careful balance to judge what was genocide and what was crimes against humanity and war crimes. It is clear that this kind of balance is important when trying out current events. It was also one of the reasons why there was a majority in parliament that did not go into what is likely to be seen as a crime against humanity, genocide or war crimes in the case of Yazidians, Shia Muslims and Christians in Iraq and Syria. What happened in 1915, the abuse of Christians by the Ottoman Empire and whether the so-called seyfo is a genocide or not, can also be seen in the light of other abuses that have taken place historically. It is, unfortunately, not only in 1915 that history has contained what could be a genocide, but also in other contexts. It is important, I think, that the government does not open new doors but has a clear line here.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your comments. I think Pål Wrange has put it wisely in his report. As for historical events, it is vital to encourage the search for truth and then to contribute to a reconciliation process. Seeking the truth is above all a task for scientists, while the reconciliation process is active action here and now where politicians, governments and leaders can and should play an active role. It is about making that distinction, and then one should see that it is not governments that are the main players in categorising what has happened in the past, but governments' role is to act. For the Swedish Government, we take it very seriously, in this case too, to create the conditions for reconciliation. We know that mass abuse has long repercussions and can even happen again if one does not support a reconciliation process and succeeds with it. Therefore, the memory that I said is both immense and alive for the relatives of the victims of 1915 abuse and murder. Here we intend to continue to support research, other search for knowledge and memory. We support the work on peace and reconciliation in the region between Turkey and Armenia as well as between Armenia and Azerbaijan. It must seek to develop more dialogue spaces between civil society and perhaps also a greater role for women in the various peace processes. It is an active work that you should plan, make sure to allocate resources to and think through very carefully. The courts we have – the ICC and the two UN tribunals for Yugoslavia and Rwanda – where responsibilities can be demanded have been shaped in extremely long negotiations and with thorough legal work. If they are to be used for truth-seeking, accountability, redress and prevention, it is important that we be careful, respect the definitions and do not suddenly start to make them further or change them and respect the procedures that we have agreed upon. The United Nations Office for the Prevention of Genocide is doing the same. Otherwise you create misunderstandings, make free research more difficult or anticipate legal processes. That's why you're careful. It may sound like we're just trying to wiggle or there's something weird about this. In fact, it is respect for international law procedures and, at the same time, respect for what is at stake. For the government, it is important that there is no hierarchy between the different concepts used. It is not that genocide is worse than crimes against humanity, war crimes or anything else. All three are phenomena to which we have a responsibility to act. I know we're all impatient. We will not be longer than we have to. But we intend to have a proper reflection when we choose the way forward. We will base a lot on the report we have received from Pål Wrange. It contains the complex and also the ways forward. With that, Emanuel Öz must be content for the day. But it is good that we continue to discuss it. It is also important that we show that we understand what has happened and that they sow in a society.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-188	Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your answer. I wasn't told about the schedule. It might be good if you could include it in your final post. Of course, scientists should look for the truth. Looking at what has been researched historically, there is an enormous amount of material that provides guidance and support for the recognition of genocide. With regard to reconciliation and the fact that it is up to politicians to do so, I do not see any reconciliation process going on between Turkey and the Turkish state and Syrians, Assyrians or other minority groups, on the contrary. Last week, representatives from Turkey went out and gave a rather threatening picture to the German politicians who voted to recognise the genocide. It's a difficult process. What I still want to say in my concluding speech is that a confession should have come last year when the centenary of seyfo was honored and there were a lot of manifestations around the world. As the Foreign Minister has said, we have a great many people involved in this, and it is an extremely lively and important issue. These memories of the incidents a hundred years ago persist to this day. Denying genocide, as many people feel it, can also be seen as a consequence. It is therefore important that the groups concerned receive a sort of redress so that they can move forward. I mean, with respect to the Foreign Minister, it's now up to you to prove it. The world's watching. It is up to us how to deal with this issue. Admit the genocide or at least tell us what the timetable is so that we know what we have to look forward to.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-193	Madam President, I would like I wish I could give you an end date. We'll look into the investigation and see what the consequences of it will be. We also let the Department's various units look at it. It is also important to make contacts and see what is happening in the rest of the world. We have been in contact with Turkey and Turkey's embassy even though recent events have been timed. It's not unimportant. Nor is it intended to contribute to the further deepening of a conflict. We must try everything we do to make a contribution to reconciliation or something where we encourage both parties to find out more. It's about recognizing and helping people get more information about what's happened and taking on what historians and others can tell us and what survivors or survivors can tell us about what's happened. I hope that, as soon as possible, we will be able to come back with a message and that we will then have an action plan for what we want to do and how we want to deal with the issue in the future. I'll get back to you with a date.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-197	Madam President, I would like Anders Forsberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to speed up work on the new directives on animal welfare and control programmes. Both the Animal Protection Investigation Report New Animal Welfare Act (SOU 2011:75) and the Competitiveness Investigation Report Attractive, innovative and sustainable – strategy for a competitive agricultural and horticultural industry (SOU 2015:15) highlight control programmes as a means of achieving good animal welfare. Control programmes – sometimes also referred to as animal welfare programmes – are programmes developed by some professional organisations to strengthen competitiveness and increase flexibility for entrepreneurs while promoting and maintaining a high level of animal welfare. The programmes are approved by the National Board of Agriculture and allow entrepreneurs to reach the same high level of animal welfare as required by the regulations in other ways. It is important that the control programmes are based on a sound legal basis, and that is the starting point for the work currently under way in the Government Office on the control programmes. The Ministry of Rural Development has previously presented a proposal for a new legal framework for the control programmes. The said proposal has been referred, and we are now working on analysing how the framework can be designed. There have been many comments from the consultation bodies which must be taken into account before we proceed with the matter. We also analyse the possible consequences of a new legal framework for different industries. I am aware that there is an interest from new industries in control programmes. However, the current control programmes have different conditions, and the design of the different programmes also differs from one sector to another. A new legal framework must be able to underpin both existing control programmes and programmes that the industry wants to launch in the future. The system should also work for a long time so that it does not need to be replaced immediately by new rules.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-203	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Affairs for his reply. What exactly is an animal care program? With an animal welfare programme, animal welfare shall be reinforced while taking into account the latest scientific and technical achievements. An animal care programme will also contribute to improved competitiveness for Swedish farmers. The programme will thus contribute to both elements – both improved animal health and increased investment willingness – and stimulate new innovations and technological development. Sweden has one of the world's most extensive animal welfare laws and many skilled animal breeders. Our legislation on animal welfare is unique and goes much further than what other major food producing competitors use. One expression of the animal care we have in Sweden is that Swedish pigs have the knorrren left, higher growth per day and better feed utilisation compared to pigs in many other countries. The use of antibiotics, which in Sweden can only be given to sick animals, is the lowest in the EU. All these are signs of good animal care. But Swedish pig farming is not the world's best in all areas. For example, the number of surviving piglets per sow is much lower than in several other countries, and we have a relatively high exclusion of sows in pig production. With regard to the example of pig production, the animal care programme serves as a further development of the Swedish animal care system with a particular focus on the survival of piglets, the sustainability of sows and the continued low use of antibiotics. The programme opens for individual adaptation for the individual farm to improve weaknesses in today's animal care in order to achieve improved animal welfare while increasing competitiveness. In its 2011 report, the Animal Protection Report points to the need to reward skilled keepers so that they have the chance to develop new alternative solutions, highlighting control programmes in particular as a means of achieving this. In the field of animal welfare, there are already a number of control programmes for certain industries. It can also be noted that Ingrid Eilertz, Head of the Department of Environmental Protection and Health of the Swedish Board of Agriculture, at the 2016 Jurdskyddskonferens, highlighted the need to develop and evaluate the regulatory framework for new animal husbandry methods but while maintaining animal welfare. Increasing the flexibility of legislation can be a way forward. Increased flexibility means that the requirements can be met in different ways without lowering the level of animal welfare. It can enable new solutions and innovations. But there are, of course, problems when it comes to uniting controls and creating clear legal certainty. However, as I mention in my interpellation, the current problem is as follows: the Agriculture Department is tied up. There are proposals from several industries to animal welfare programmes that cannot be approved until the new directives have been received from the Ministry. As I said, the Swedish Agriculture Agency is very positive, but it gets caught between departments and industries. Perhaps the problem is the same as with the food strategy and the animal welfare bill. You get the feeling that it's stalled and nothing happens. One can consider whether this is connected – perhaps it is a draft battle between the various political parties in the government. One might also wonder whether there is a timeframe even for a food strategy or an animal welfare proposal. When can they be expected to finish?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-215	Madam President, I would like I still think that Anders Forsberg and I agree that animal health, growth and production are connected. The basic idea of good husbandry is the Swedish model. That's how we've been doing it for a very long time. We have also always promoted and ensured that we have healthy and prosperous animals. I would say that we in Sweden are the world leader in animal health. This enables us to produce food of very high quality. For example, we are the EU country that uses the least antibiotics. That is a clear example. The control programmes are, in fact, about promoting good keepers of animals. Good animal keepers should be able to work with these programs. But we have to remember, Anders Forsberg, that some parts of the programme in practice mean that industry inspectors carry out official activities against the keeper. In these cases, authorisation is required by law. The Administrative Act stipulates a number of requirements for the person carrying out an official assignment. There are demands for impartiality, publicity, rectification communication and a right to have decisions reviewed. This means that it is not so easy to bring this out so that it is also legally secure and holds on to a possible test. We shall be open to and positive to new methods, modern systems, other forms and innovation. It is very important that we are open to it, because innovation is about new and better solutions. In many ways, industry programmes have been very good, but it is a matter of legal certainty. We will also stimulate research to find new methods, and we will stimulate innovation in research. The government has also set up an Innovation Council. It is a matter of continuous exchanges between the government, industry, the scientific community and the social partners. It is important that we work with and are open to the new methods and develop close cooperation at all levels between industry, the public sector, authorities and research. This is part of it, but I would like to stress once again that it is important that we have systems for control programmes that are legally secure and that also last long-term.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-220	Madam President, I would like As I said earlier, we can see that we have good animal welfare and good animal welfare legislation in Sweden. However, legislation needs to be reviewed in order to follow social developments and not hinder new innovations. Good compliance with the legislation depends on us being sensitive as legislators to the needs of the industry. Legislation is not the only factor behind good animal welfare either. In order for animals to have a good life in reality, skilled farmers are needed above all. Legislation may set the framework, and animal welfare controls may monitor compliance. But at the end of the day it is the farmers who – 24 hours a day, seven days a week and 365 days a year – have full responsibility for animal welfare. It's something you can never get away from. It is therefore particularly important that the authorities not only use the legislation but also work more with, for example, advice, information and development in line with the industry. The Minister mentions in his reply that the conditions for the animal welfare programmes must be legally laid down. They must be long-term and in line with animal welfare legislation. I understand that very well, and I think it is incredibly important at this point. But that's not the part the question is about. The question I ask in the interpellation is when we can see the finished animal legislation and when we can see the animal welfare programmes running. That is the part I simply ask the Minister to look at whether he has the opportunity to speed up. The major challenges for a viable and competitive agriculture in Sweden are to develop new ways of working to develop profitability and quality in Swedish animal production. A number of sectors have now developed joint action plans to develop pig, milk, beef and lamb farms. In this context, stakeholders have undertaken to take concrete steps to develop businesses and the market. Here again one might ask why the government does not pull its load. If the problem is that animal welfare legislation is required to be speeded up in order to be able to implement the animal welfare programmes, why does this not be speeded up? We in the Swedish Democrats are otherwise in favour of the revision of animal welfare legislation because the current one is more than 20 years old and needs to be updated and adapted to the reality we are living in today. But I've asked you more questions here. Can we expect an animal welfare bill this autumn, and how much later will we be before we can discuss the animal welfare programmes here again?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-229	Madam President, I would like Control programmes promote both high animal welfare and the competitiveness of farmers. As I mentioned, the proposals that have been sent out have received an enormous number of referrals. It is important that we analyse the referrals and take them seriously and that we create a legally secure system that lasts in the long term – not only for the programmes we are running today but also for future programmes. There are other industries that have the vision to come up with such programmes. This is part of strengthening competitiveness and also maintaining good animal health. But there are many other tools to achieve this. One such tool is the food strategy. It is also about increasing our food production overall in the country. It's about the whole country, and it's about jobs all over the country. We all know that food production is rural. The only question is on which rural food will be produced in the future. My answer to that question is in Swedish countryside. Then the food strategy is an important part of the whole. It must also be properly anchored. That's why it takes time to get it out. Our ambition is to present a proposal this year, both in relation to the food strategy and in relation to animal welfare. In 2016, it will be placed on the table of the Riksdag. It should be long-term sustainable and well established. I do not believe that this type of proposal is adopted by a narrow majority, but I have the ambition to reach a broad agreement on this in Parliament, so that it will last for the long term. The Government will then complement the Food Strategy with an action plan that will be revised annually. I hope that all companies in the food chain, from primary production to industrial and export companies and other actors, can also gather around this and also contribute to various action plans. I believe in long-termism and common, broad decisions.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-236	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats really want to be involved in this. We also believe it is important that we actually have a broad majority in favour of a long-term food and animal welfare policy. It is gratifying that the Minister is just highlighting Swedish countryside and that this is where we will produce. Then it is also important that we actually get somewhere. The Minister may have grown tired of asking when the food strategy and animal welfare legislation are coming, but it is clear that as politicians we are becoming perplexed when it drags on more and more without any transparency in the process, which I think would have been an advantage if we had been able to have. Good animal care is achieved in most cases because the farmer strives for the animals to grow and feel good. It has been proven that good animal health and good growth and production are closely linked. From the Swedish Democrats we welcome a more goal-driven animal welfare legislation, where animal health is in focus and adapted to modern animal production based on its needs and current situation. We also support, for example, the introduction of a simplified use of medicines for milk production, and we also want to review how we can reduce red tape without compromising our high environmental and animal welfare ambitions. A prerequisite for a diverse cultural landscape and much of our biodiversity is a viable agriculture. Open and living landscapes cannot be legislated; they only exist if it is profitable to farm and keep animals. Reducing agricultural production automatically means increasing imports from countries with lower environmental and agricultural ambitions. It can't be good for either animals or nature. Thank you for the debate.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-243	Madam President, I would like I would also like to raise this issue to an EU perspective. After all, we have a common agricultural policy within the EU, and we also have a common trade area. It is important that the issues of animal welfare are also pursued at that level. Recently, a major study, known as the Eurobarometer, was presented on how European citizens view animal welfare. Animal welfare in Europe is an issue that is very close to the hearts of many. That's what the investigation showed. It is therefore important that our regulations are also operated at that level and that the level of animal welfare in Europe is raised, where in many contexts the same rules as Sweden are not applied. We have a common foundation, but we have a much tougher animal welfare system in Sweden. Among other things, I work with Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany on these issues. We have a proposal for a common animal protection platform, which will enable animal protection to be developed throughout Europe. It is also a question of exchanging experiences with each other. The Commission is very positive about this and has also promised to develop a common animal welfare platform. It is important in these contexts that we also highlight the added value that it brings to us that we have a good level of animal protection. The control programmes are part of ensuring this. We must not risk the control programmes being condemned in any way because they are not legally valid, because the control programmes are pushing for good production with high quality of our agricultural products. Thank you for a good debate!
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-248	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that Swedish agriculture is not hit harder than colleagues in other EU countries. I would like to begin by saying that, as Maria Stenergard also writes in her interpellation, the legislation on plant protection products is harmonised by the European Union through Regulation 1107/ 2009 on the placing on the market of plant protection products. The Regulation is directly applicable in Sweden as well as in the other Member States of the Union. The Regulation as a whole aims to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and to improve the functioning of the internal market while improving agricultural production. The Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate is responsible for the investigation, which takes place on application by anyone who wants to sell a product on the market in Sweden. The decisions can be appealed to a court of law. It is not my job to comment on the application of the regulatory framework by the Chemicals Inspectorate in individual cases. Nor is it up to me or the government to give instructions or mandates to the Authority on the application of EU acts. By 14 December 2014, the European Commission had to present a report on the impact of the above-mentioned regulation on, inter alia, the diversification and competitiveness of agriculture. The review is late. The Ministry of Industry and Energy, together with the Ministry of Environment and Energy, invited to a discussion meeting on the occasion of the forthcoming review. It is my view that the review provides an opportunity to highlight issues such as, for example, the impact of the regulation on competition relations between growers in different Member States. The government will be actively involved in the review process. I would like to conclude by saying that I believe in Swedish agriculture and food. That is why in 2016 I and the government will present a proposal for a new food strategy to the Riksdag. The aim of the work on a food strategy is to increase employment, production, exports, innovation and the profitability of food production while achieving the relevant environmental objectives. The starting point for the work on the food strategy is that there is a great potential in Swedish food production and downstream. Swedish food production has the potential to contribute to increased growth and employment throughout the country and to the Government's target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU 2020. Competitive agriculture is essential to achieve this. There is a need for good access to plant protection products, both biological and chemical as well as alternative methods, for sustainable plant protection.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-254	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. From a political point of view, we often say that we want to protect a vibrant countryside, Swedish culinary culture and good Swedish animal husbandry, but not infrequently bureaucratic obstacles stand in the way. Lately I have heard of too many entrepreneurs who have begun their winding up of the dream in the Skåne countryside. One example is Sven Olsson in Lillehem. He has raised happy and happy outdoor pigs since the 1980s. In 2004, a boar gale entered Sven Olsson's enclosure. A little later, 80 pigs were born. It turned out that this meat was of very high quality, and it was demanded both by consumers and by star chefs. But the meat does not fit into any bureaucratic template. Is it wild, or is it tame? No one can make up their mind. For Sven Olsson, the bureaucrats' main problem is the end of what could have been a flourishing and innovative business. A vibrant countryside requires an active economic policy or, in any case, a lack of a policy that causes it and helps to reduce Swedish competitiveness. Simplifying the regulatory environment is essential for small businesses to be able to increase their profitability. Innovation, development and employment in rural areas must be promoted, not discouraged. Everyone says that the whole of Sweden should live, but fine words are not enough. The ambition must also be seen in action. Mr President, I would like to Kristianstad and the surrounding area account for a very large part of all the onion produced in Sweden. Åhus Grönt alone accounts for one third of all Sweden's production of yellow and red onions. They are now sounding the alarm. Between 40 and 60 jobs are at stake. The reason is that there have been tougher rules for plant protection products than colleagues in other EU countries. Sweden is the only country in the world that now bans the product Stomp, and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate refuses to grant exemption. The EU has a common regulatory framework in this area. But Sweden has now, as in many other areas, chosen to go further than the other countries within the Union in its interpretation of the rules. It certainly does not benefit consumers, who are instead allowed to eat imported onions, which have been grown in countries that do not have at all as strict rules as Sweden. It is a policy that risks hitting the countryside hard and not least against the Scanian countryside and the Scanian jobs. This is the background to my question to the Minister for Rural Development. What measures does the Minister for Rural Development intend to take to ensure that Swedish agriculture is not more affected than colleagues in other EU countries? I am a little concerned when the Minister in his reply refers to the legal system. Companies must therefore appeal against the authorities' too tough decisions. Few companies have the energy and strength to engage in long and complex legal processes. And why should they have to do it when their Danish colleagues do not have to, and when the regulations are supposed to be the same? I fully understand that it is not possible to engage in ministerial government. But that's not what this is about. The government has every opportunity to give clear instructions to its authorities. What, the Minister for Rural Development says, is it really preventing the government from giving the Chemicals Inspectorate a clear mandate to ensure that their application of the EU common regulatory framework harmonises with that of the other Member States?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-262	Mr President, I would like to It is about two months since the Minister for Rural Development and I last debated the issue of plant protection products and the situation of Swedish agriculture linked to that issue. It can well be said that not much has happened since then. The answer given to Maria Stenergard on her meritorious interpellation is not very different from that given by the Minister for Rural Development in the corresponding debate a few months ago. I have to say that I find this somewhat regrettable. As a rural minister, the issue should be taken a little more seriously. One should feel the importance of actually acting. I do not think it is good enough to try to refer the matter to the work on the food strategy. It is, in itself, important work to create increased food production in the country, as the Minister says, is going on. That is probably good, but I think we also agree that it is long-term work. This is about the long-term competitive environment. It's really important. That work must be done. I think that's good. But this is not about the long term. This is a very short-term problem. There's a problem right now. That is why the Minister must also be prepared to act here and now. With regard to the question of plant protection products, it is important to note that it is not about someone who thinks it is very fun to use plant protection products unnecessarily. It's not about someone going around in the fields with the tractors and spreading a lot of toxins because it's fun. On the contrary, we are very good in Sweden at not using plant protection products unnecessarily. As far as the present product Stomp is concerned, we only use about one fifth as much as we do in several other countries of the European Union. In this area too, we in Sweden are in many ways an example, in the same way as we are in the case of antibiotics in animal husbandry. We do not use antibiotics for preventive purposes. We do not use plant protection products unnecessarily. It's used when you have to. Then there's a reason. If you have to, it's because the harvest is otherwise in danger of being destroyed. What happens if the harvest is destroyed, the Minister for Rural Affairs? What happens if the onion cannot be grown in Sweden because it is not allowed to use plant protection products when required? Well, if they want onions, consumers are forced to buy onions that have been imported elsewhere. There are then countries that use perhaps five times as much of this plant protection product. Experts are now also warning that there is a shortage of plant protection methods. The Institute of Agricultural and Environmental Technology called the other day. It is noted that many crops cannot be grown without plant protection products, and chemical plant protection cannot be removed until other plant protection strategies are developed and available. The lack of plant protection methods forces us to import things that could have been produced in Sweden. This means less competitive conditions for Swedish growers. But it also means that the global environmental impact is at risk of increasing if the production of vegetables, fruit and berries, which we consume in Sweden, takes place in countries where more and more plant protection products are used than here. We will then do exactly what we have said we should not do. We export the environmental impact to other countries. We are good in Sweden at not using a lot of plant protection products. Let us continue to be good! But we should not put away the bones for the cultivation that needs to be, with the limited amount of plant protection products required. We have an authority in Sweden that makes an interpretation that is completely different from that of the corresponding authorities in all other EU countries. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development: in what way does the Minister for Rural Development think it is reasonable for the Authority to act in this way? And in what way is the Minister now prepared to act to solve the problem?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-268	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler says that not much has happened since we last discussed this. It is a legal process that has been going on. It has come to court since we last discussed the issue. Jonas is trying to get me to make some assessment as a minister about how an authority or court acts. I'm not falling for that thing because I know what the result is. There'll be a KU report right away. Then I turn to Maria Malmer Stenergard. An active rural policy is needed. Yes, actually, it's necessary. I thought I'd tell you a few things that we've done. Broadband is also important for agriculture – it is important that we have that possibility of communication. There has never been so much money in the budget for such an investment in Swedish rural areas. That is 3.25 billion and 1.2 billion in terms of local networks. It's almost 4.5 billion jardes. This is an important step for an active rural policy. Then there is service in sparsely populated areas. There has never been so much money to improve the possibility of having shops in Swedish countryside. There are 88 million annually for investments. It is more than twice as much as has ever been in the rural programme. There are also 35 million for operating aid to rural shops. It is a huge rural policy effort. Then there's government jobs. The government has taken the initiative to investigate how to relocate government jobs. I do not know if Maria has noted and observed that the Tax Agency had plans to close nine offices around the country with withdrawn it. Of course a lot has happened. I will come back to the efforts we have made on agriculture. Swedish food production has a potential. It also has a potential to grow, I think, throughout the country. There the national food strategy is extremely important and central. I promise that plant protection products will also be treated there. It is also an important part of being able to farm. One of the efforts the government has made in the field of plant protection is to allocate 6 million in special money to produce plant protection products for smaller uses, type crops such as onions and carrots. As regards the evaluation of plant protection products and its authorisation, it takes place in two stages. One step is the EU level that decides and approves the subject itself. The active substance in Stomp is pendimethalin and is therefore authorised by the EU. Then it is the Chemicals Inspectorate who will approve the active product to be used, in this case Stomp. When the active substance was to be approved at EU level, it was contested. Efsa said that it did not really have reliable evidence to make a decision, but it extended it by one year. The experts who look at this and EFSA's analyses believe that this extension at EU level may not happen again, and that means that Stomp will not be on the European market at all.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-278	Mr President, I would like to I'm the first to sign that we should have tough reg- smiles when it comes to chemicals. I don't want to serve my kids a kalops that's nailed with heavily sprayed onions. I want to serve them kalops with onions from Åhus Grönt or any of our talented onion growers around Kristianstad. It's locally produced, and it's minimally sprayed. Swedish farmers take a big responsibility, and they do not spray unnecessarily, because it is both expensive and bad. Just as Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler was in his post, Swedish farmers use about a fifth as much plant protection products as their colleagues in the rest of the EU. The question is, can I serve my children that kalops with North East Bank onion? Sweden is now well on its way to stopping these farmers' opportunities. The risk is that the tough Swedish line will lead Sweden instead of growing onions to import onions that have been transported far and that in most cases have been sprayed considerably harder than would have been the case for Swedish onions. The imported onion can then be sold in these sparsely populated shops that the Minister for Rural Development is talking about, but I am not sure that this is the right policy for the Swedish countryside. Instead, it is completely backwards, because this does not benefit Swedish consumers or the environment. It does not benefit the environment, and it certainly does not benefit jobs, especially in Kristianstad. It is the government's responsibility to make sure that the Swedish Government works. Common rules shall be respected, but they shall not be overinterpreted. Per Svensson is an onion grower from Skepparslöv outside Kristianstad, and he said this to Radio Kristianstad: I do not understand why they want to give us tougher demands than island Europe. It would have been sj y s tare if everyone had the same rules. This should really be the prime priority of the Minister, so I will pass the question on from Per Svensson to the Minister for Rural Development: is it not fairer if everyone has the same rules?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-284	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Rural Affairs. I have to say that it becomes very obvious when you listen to the Minister for Rural Development that he lacks answers to these questions, because he spends most of his time talking about a lot of other things and other rural initiatives – which in themselves are very important. Of course, broadband is important and so on. All that is very important, but this issue is also important, and now that is what we are discussing. This is about plant protection products and not about broadband. Nor is it about the legal process and anticipating it in the specific case. This is about the confidence the Minister for Rural Development actually has, or should have, in his authority when it acts as it does in this case. For example, the Chemicals Inspectorate claims that they cannot take into account the needs of agriculture in their assessments, despite the fact that in the aim of the Plant Health Regulation it is stated that, in addition to ensuring protection of the environment and health, the aim is actually to improve agricultural production. Where does the Plant Health Regulation say what the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate says? I got it right here. It's 40 pages. The Minister for Rural Affairs will be happy to show you where it says. If so, why do the authorities in all other countries make a completely different interpretation? The Authority also states that they may only grant exemptions a limited number of times. Where does the plant health regulation say it is? How is it that there are examples from other countries where exemptions have been granted more than ten times and even granted several times in the same year? The Authority also considers that it is necessary to increase the requirements each year in order to grant an exemption. Where does the plant health regulation say it is? The Minister for Rural Development is welcome to follow this up and comment on how he views the application of the plant health regulation by the Agency. Is it possible to have confidence in an authority that acts that way, or is it perhaps the case that the government should go in and act to make this work properly?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-292	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler is a bit irritated that I answer about investments in rural areas. But it was Jonas' party partner, Maria Malmer Stenergard, who started her first speech by asking what investments are being made in rural areas. I thought it was polite to give her an answer. With regard to the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the processing time there, it is worrying, and the government has had a dialogue with the agency on a couple of occasions. There is also ongoing dialogue on these issues. I know that the Alliance government had this problem for eight years too. It is a problem that we have inherited and that we will try to solve. But I can't go into the individual case related to the interpellation and give someone comment on it. There is also a review of legislation at European level, and it is hugely important that we follow this and are also involved in influencing it. The Swedish position is that these things should be competitively neutral within the Union. It cannot be that there should be completely different conditions. It is also important that we make other investments in agriculture. I told them I'd get back to them. There, the national food strategy is something that is very important. The robust Competitiveness Study showed that the biggest problem for the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture is the different prices of diesel, the diesel taxation and the diesel tax reduction that exist. That was the most anti-competitive. We know that the Alliance Government raised diesel tax twice and reduced diesel tax to farmers four times. It is clear that this put them in a very, very difficult competitive position. This government has gone in and increased the diesel tax reduction considerably to compensate for tax increases that have taken place now and before. The fact that it may not be enough to get into parity with the EU average is another thing, but we have taken steps in a different direction. We also went into the milk producers with 100% co-financing for the EU money that came, i.e. 152 million directly to the dairy farmers. We doubled the support for methane gas reduction ng from 20 öre to 40 öre. We went in with $150 million for cloven-hoofed health. We have made export efforts that have not been made before and also doubled the possibilities of obtaining export approval at food establishments in Sweden. We have also worked on a new export strategy, and I myself have been on promotional trips together with the industry in Hong Kong, China and Japan, and we have got agreements and agreements so that Swedish food companies can export goods there so that they actually get raw materials from Swedish agriculture.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-300	Mr President, I would like to Let's get into the diesel tax. We note that in the last budget it was the government that increased the tax and the compensations, while in our budget motion we did not increase the tax but still increased the compensations more. Then it's settled. Northern and eastern Skåne has a fantastic environment and countryside. In rural areas, ideas are created and entrepreneurship prevails. There are conditions for what is usually called a living countryside. Food and beverage culture thrives and puts Sweden on the world map. Not long ago, The New York Times wrote that Skåne is one of the top 10 places to visit in 2016 – all over the world. What the newspaper says makes Skåne unique is the people, the coast, the food and not least the raw materials. These are values and competitive advantages that we must safeguard at all costs. The least we can do from a political point of view is not to set the trap for those who create the values. I know they stand up and brush away the soil, but eventually they also give up. We cannot afford that because we must safeguard our unique assets. We say that the whole of Sweden should live, but politics constantly puts obstacles in the way of a living countryside. These are high taxes, complicated rules and bans. Everything helps to reduce our competitiveness. Why do other countries find opportunities but not us? Why can't we have confidence in our farmers? Why must Sweden constantly over-implement EU rules? Why isn't the Minister for Rural Affairs acting to save the jobs in Skåne?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-305	Mr President, I would like to Maria Malmer Stenergard knows that in opposition suggest something about diesel tax is fake? In a government position, it's real. During your reign, you raised the diesel tax twice and deteriorated the diesel tax reduction four times. But it was real. I believe in Swedish countryside. I believe in Swedish agriculture whether it is practised in Skåne, Götaland, Svealand or Norrland. Measures are needed to improve the situation. In fact, an important element is the food strategy. I hope that we can deal with it in broad political agreement here in Parliament when the matter comes up for debate and decision this year. Other measures are also needed. Nevertheless, I would like to explain what has been done for agriculture. Recently, the administrative procedures for grazing legislation were simplified. We have entered 200 million to support organic production because demand for organic products has increased by 39 percent in 2015. We've gone in with support for the first employee. Soil users can receive support so that costs are reduced by SEK 4 200 per month. Exports have received 10 million. The government has placed an agricultural council at the embassy in Beijing at a cost of 3 million. There have been many results. Many different measures are needed. Part of it is that there is a plant health policy, and that issue will be addressed in the food strategy. Thank you for a good debate!
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-310	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Christensson has asked me what measures I and the government will take in connection with what has emerged from the Swedish Radio's review of tuition fees and the use of aid money for advertising for Swedish universities. We live in a time when the needs for knowledge and skills are constantly increasing in the labour market, while at the same time seeing an increasingly global and digitised world. The climate challenge and antibiotic resistance are some examples of challenges that we need to work together to meet. Internal dialogue and exchange of experience create good conditions for meeting the common challenges we face. In order to increase the exchange of knowledge and ideas, students and researchers who move between different countries become key actors. It is extremely important that students want to come to Sweden to study. It enhances the quality of Swedish education, and in our global world we benefit from having international environments at our universities and colleges. In 2011, the bourgeois government introduced tuition fees, despite criticisms from universities and colleges, among other things. Thereafter, the number of non-European students fell by 80 per cent, and only recently has the negative trend started to reverse. Foreign students are important to Sweden. Therefore, the information on shortcomings in the system of tuition fees introduced by the bourgeois government is of particular concern. The government's work on the issue of internationalisation in higher education began through hearings with representatives of universities and high schools, students, business and trade unions. After these constructive discussions on opportunities and challenges with internationalisation, we are now actively working on the issue.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-315	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I put the interpellation in the hope of having a constructive debate on the review made by the Ecot on two points. One point concerns tuition fees for foreign students. The echo showed that non-European students have to pay anything from SEK 20 000 to SEK 60 000 extra for their courses compared to what they actually cost. The second point is that it was also discovered that aid money is being used to advertise Swedish universities. Unfortunately, I felt that I did not get an answer to my question in the inter-pellation. There were two things that stuck out in the Government's answer. One is the transfer of responsibility to the Alliance. The second is that the government is actively working on the issue. Let me start with the question of the Alliance. Of course we have a responsibility. It was we who had government power when the system came into existence. It is not something to be hymn about, but it is only now that the challenges have arisen. Now it is Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson who is responsible for the questions. There should therefore be a clearer reply from the Minister as to what action is being taken in relation to what has actually arisen and what is being done to overcome the issues. Working actively is a concept that I would like the Minister to develop. What measures have you taken or are you planning to take to overcome the problems of non-European students? Let me once again provide clarification on these issues. There was a lack of reasoning in the Government's response to the interpellation and, in addition, there was largely no response to the government's actions in relation to tuition fees and the use of aid money for advertising. Is it something that the Government thinks is good and should continue, or will measures be taken to change the situation?
i-9yGKGfee1YiF29WzjPhR29	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for the supplementary questions. I cannot do so much about the fact that it was actually the previous government that introduced the system, or rather the lack of systems, when it was decided that all foreign students, so-called third-country students, would pay fees. This happened quickly, and therefore it became difficult for universities and colleges – except that they were critical of the basic idea. An important principle for the previous government was that the system would be completely cost-neutral, i.e. that charges would be charged corresponding to all costs including marketing. This was part of the decision taken by the previous government. It is obvious to market that courses can be offered in English, for example, because it is relatively unknown around the world. The costs may not be paid by any means other than by means of fees. That it differs, just as the Ekot review showed, how much more you charge in fees is one of the things where I intend to take action. I'm going to assign one of my authorities to map out how the fees are charged and what's put into them. The amount of money to be reimbursed cannot be compared with the actual cost of higher education. Since you are free to dispose of this money bag, the cost of a master student may exceed the compensation you receive from the state. It is then taken from other educational money. This is also the case for Swedish students. However, it is not possible to do so for so-called third country students because, according to the system introduced by the previous government, it must be completely cost-neutral. Tax money must not be used for third country students. One of the measures I plan is to give in government assignments to map how to work with this and why it differs. It is an important knowledge base if we are to move forward with reforming the system – or rather get ourselves a system. I hope we agree that internationalisation is important and that it was a loss for Swedish universities and colleges to lose these foreign students. The way forward is never backwards, but we have to look at what we are going to do from the outside where we stand today. I hope that the Centre Party remains at its Congress decision to abolish this or at least reform it. It gives us a broad opportunity to discuss this constructively in Parliament.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-328	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for developing the answer. I got more out now than I got in the interpellation response. Let me start where the minister left off. Indeed, the Center Party has a decision that, when there is budgetary space, we want to give non-European students the same conditions as European students. I know that the Social Democrats also have a decision on this, and it is included in various documents from previous congresses. In the election movement, it could also be perceived as a form of electoral promise. The Minister is welcome to develop if it is something you plan to proceed with. Here we share our view. As long as we have the current system, it is important that it is as good as possible and that it gets more foreign students to come here because it is good for Sweden and Swedish competitiveness. In his previous speech, the Minister said that little can be done and that a mission is planned. When will this mission be given? How is the process progressing so that we overcome the problem that there is a great deal of difference between different educations how much you charge the non-European students and that it is therefore a fairly unfair system? In its review, Ekot also raised an ongoing case concerning the quality of higher education. It is important that the non-European students who pay for their education feel that they get quality for their money. It's a big investment. Swedish students are fortunate with free education. The investment you make is to take out loans on favourable terms. For the non-European students, it is a question of spending a great deal of resources on an education. If you spend a lot of money without getting the quality you want, that's a big problem. For example, the student who paid 90 000 SEK per year stated that there were only two lectures a week. I fully understand that that student was dissatisfied with the quality if he didn't get more for the big money invested in the education. It is important that the courses are of a quality that matches the cost of the individual student.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-337	Mr President, I would like to I thank Fredrik Christensson. As Minister of State, of course, I cannot comment on pending legal cases. Here we are waiting for an outcome on this particular matter. Under the rule system introduced by the previous government, you can only pay back if the student is prevented from taking part in studies. That is the regulatory framework that exists. There is great reason to review the current regulatory framework because the number of third country students has decreased t too much, which has affected our universities and colleges so that internationalisation has decreased. Internationalisation is important for the quality of higher education, but it also affects the ranking of our universities. Too little internationalisation is negative for the ranking, and it is in turn negative for Sweden as a knowledge nation and when it comes to attracting students. That is why there is every reason to look at this. First, however, we need to know why it is so different in terms of, for example, the amount of the levy. That is why I will give an authority mission as quickly as possible so that we can have this knowledge base. It is already clear that we are going to set up a study on the internationalisation of higher education, and I will do so in the autumn. In view of this, we need a better knowledge base and a better follow-up of why it looks like it does. We are aware of the lack of regulations. What is clear in the rules that exist is that the tuition fee can only be refunded if the student is prevented from participating in the programme for special reasons or if it has been established that the education is non-contributory. I hope, as I said, that we can engage in constructive dialogue on the basis of the actual and factual situation in order to make Sweden attractive to study even for students coming from outside the EU and the EEA. It is important if we are to strengthen Sweden as a knowledge nation and ensure that our industry remains competitive and has a good international breadth to draw its future competence from. We have companies that work all over the world, and we have many societal challenges that are global. We must meet these together, and our students are better equipped if they have been able to meet the international environment already during their higher education.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-346	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I welcome the fact that an investigation will be set up as a matter of urgency, and I will follow the work of the government on this issue closely to see that this is the case. Internationalisation is important in several respects. It is not just this issue that is important. One challenge is to get students to stay after their education because it can be a complicated process. There is much to be done about the internationalisation of higher education. The Minister points out that the lack of regulations has been known for some time. Now the government has been in office for almost two years, so it is welcome that there is a review of the system so that you can see what changes can be made to bring about a better system for non-European students too. When it comes to reimbursement, Ekot's review made it clear that the fees differ greatly between Swedish universities. Is that something the government will look at further? In what the government plans to do linked to internationalisation and assignments to government agencies, will the government look at enabling non-European students to have their tuition fees refunded if the education is not of sufficient quality? I thank the Minister for the debate and look forward to the urgent mission to the authorities to work further on this issue.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-352	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for an urgent debate! I am pleased that there are several parties here in Parliament who are involved in this matter and who see that there are shortcomings in the current system that can be corrected. We agree that internationalisation is a good thing for Swedish students, for Sweden and for Swedish higher education. Of course, it also contributes to the development of knowledge around the world. As I said, we should be an attractive country to study in for many. We're gonna take a look at this. It's too early to tell us exactly what missions we're going to give to our investigator. When it comes to the agency's mission, it is more about mapping work to see how it works today and how universities and colleges work with these issues – this so that we can get a certain analysis and knowledge base to why there is so much difference and why so different assessments of the costs of different programmes are made. The quality of higher education shall be ensured through the quality assurance system decided by the Riksdag. But it should also be ensured through active student participation. Students must be active and work together with teachers and researchers to ensure a high quality of higher education every day. We will also ensure that international students are involved in the important quality work.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-356	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to curb and reverse the trend of illegal doodles. Let me begin by stating that the number of offences reported is not a reliable measure of the development of doodles. The Crime Prevention Council estimates that the number of doodles is high and varies widely in the country. In 2015, the proportion of committed plotting offences increased by approximately 75 per cent and a large part of the increase was attributable to Polisregion Stockholm. One possible explanation for the increase is changes in how the crimes have been reported. During the summer of 2014, the City of Stockholm launched a mobile application that facilitates, among other things, the reporting of doodles and other damage. It is fundamentally good that more crimes are reported and thus come to the police's attention. The police and the criminal justice system have an obvious place in the fight against the scribble. However, Mr Brå has also stressed the importance of prevention being adapted to the nature of the area affected. Such work must involve dialogue between the municipality, the police and the plotters themselves. There is a need to develop society's efforts to prevent crime, not only within the judiciary but also among other actors such as municipalities, companies and organisations. The government is now creating better conditions for structured crime prevention work across the country and has launched a national initiative for crime prevention. I have great confidence that it will provide tools for good local crime prevention work against doodles as well as other types of crime.
i-Ch1zcEhePfTN7w2GBNKb8c	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President, for the floor and thank you, Minister, for the words. Cloths in these times may appear to be a somewhat odd issue to interpelle in. It is one of the lowest crimes on the scale of punishment. But it is crimes that affect many individuals. It's about vandalism. Many times, scribbles are also the gateway to more serious crime. The Minister, who deals with police matters, is quite clear that you rarely begin your criminal career as a bank robber and end it as a shoplifter. There is a gradual increase in the degree of these crimes. That is why it is so important that society reacts in an early manner. Even the small crimes are crimes, and the small crimes rarely involve institutions. For example, this type of crime involves the destruction of cars owned by individuals. They bought their vehicles for taxed money. Hard and hard work is behind it. It is a question of fulfilling the environment in which we are living every day. Clots may appear to be a small crime, but it is probably one of the crimes that people most often see having been committed. The statistics presented by the Swedish Crime Prevention Council in the first quarter of 2016 showed that more than 30 000 complaints were made about doodles – 30 000 notifications in one quarter are 10 000 a month! The mathematically knowledgeable realizes that it involves a number of notifications daily. It may well be said that there has been a technological development which has made it easier to report this type of crime. However, it is only to be noted that notifications have increased over the last two years. It can also be noted that until 2008, the number of plotting notifications was at the same level, but it fell from 2008 to 2014. I am sorry to bring up some boring statistics, but it is always good to have some facts with you when you debate with the Minister. The answer I have received from Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman contains a good picture of what it looks like, but I lack concrete measures that the government wants to take to curb this type of crime. It is not possible to sweep them under the carpet with the excuse that it is a juvenile crime and that there is folly behind it. These are, in fact, injuries that many individuals have to pay with their own, as I said earlier, taxed money. This damage also affects many others. I would like to see a little clearer wording than just that the government is creating better conditions for structural crime prevention across the country. That is why I ask the Minister: what signal language does the government want to send to deal with and counteract doodles? What efforts are being made to curb crimes that may otherwise develop? What sanctions does the Minister think are reasonable in the future?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-366	Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out that I have no opinion other than Mr Rothenberg on this type of crime, and probably not on other types of crime either. I am basically pleased that it has been possible to increase the notification propensity through the type of app tool that has been launched in Stockholm. In the short term, it should also be able to increase the possibility of prosecution by getting pictures of the damage directly into the system. Mr Rothenberg raises a number of specific questions. We must have better crime prevention work in cooperation between municipalities, schools and social services. To achieve this, we will launch a crime prevention programme and set up a national coordinator for crime prevention activities. Like the moderate-led government, I also do not believe that it is the penalties for this type of crime that will be crucial, but it is the effectiveness of prevention and, to some extent, the effectiveness of prosecution.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-370	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the distinctive answer! It sounds good that the government has ideas about this and takes it very seriously. However, I would like us to be able to further problematise this issue. It is not just eavesdropping over it as some footnotes in the Riksdag Protocol. What is at issue here is, of course, young people, mainly between the ages of 10 and 17, who are responsible for this type of crime. Then the damage often turns to graffiti, which is a different kind of wall decoration. But basically it is a lack of respect for the property of others. There is probably a great deal to be gained by combating serious crime if this seemingly simple form of crime can be curbed at an early stage. As I said, it can accelerate to another vandalism if there is no reaction from society. In Stockholm, the Moderates have proposed activities to combat graffiti in the City of Stockholm. These include stopping plans for open walls, re-establishing zero tolerance against graffiti and investing more money in clean-up. To quote the opposition council Anna Jerlmyr König : We make demands on special plotters because we want all complaints about plots and damage to be followed up by investigation. The former scribbler police were effective. They had knowledge of which tags belonged to which people and saw how frequent scribblers moved across the city. ..................................................... It is an initiative taken by the Moderates in Sweden's largest city. I would like to ask: is this an initiative that the Minister thinks is relevant and useful in this context?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-377	Mr President, I would like to Although I have so far agreed with Mr Rothenberg in most of what he has said, I have to say that if we want to debate measures proposed in the Stockholm City Council, we can run and take the debate there.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-378	Mr President, I would like to I am not running in Stockholm for the simple reason that I do not live in Stockholm. But the Minister, who lives in Stockholm, could very well do so. I think it was a little too easy to get away with a discussion. I would almost call it arrogant – not being able to reason and problematize about this. I asked the Minister if he thinks it is a good initiative – as an example that could be used in other contexts. I didn't get an answer. I don't think the Minister wanted to answer that. As I have mentioned before, it is important that society reacts in good time. That's what society should do at all levels. As the Minister says in his reply, it affects many different bodies. It may be companies, organisations and municipalities, but it may also be the state in the form of the government. Therefore, I think it is very relevant to ask the question what the government wants to do specifically to counter an increasing level of crime in the future. I promise to come back to this issue, and I promise that we Moderates will take this issue seriously. It's not something that we're just writing on paper-- and we're not going to write it on the walls either-- but we're going to follow up on the issue.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-382	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry if Hans Rothenberg thinks I'm arrogant. That was not my intention at all. On the other hand, it is reasonable for the elected representatives in Stockholm to take a position on initiatives that are raised in Stockholm, as well as for the elected representatives in Luleå to take a position on initiatives that are raised in Luleå. When it comes to prioritising police resources, I think it is the police themselves who should decide whether one or the other type of police officer is needed. Neither government ministers nor bourgeois councils in individual municipalities should do so. I welcome Mr Rothenberg's initiative on this issue and thank you for a good debate.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-385	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what I intend to do to counteract the presence of local vigilantes. Feeling safe and secure in society regardless of gender, sexual orientation, political opinion, skin colour and national or ethnic origin is a high priority for me and the government. That is something that everyone in Sweden is entitled to. Respect for every person's absolute right to privacy and self-determination must be safeguarded and made clear. The political authority's basic task is to maintain public order and security and to guarantee public protection. This task includes the prevention, prevention and detection of criminal activities and other disturbances of public order. To the extent that different groupings commit crimes or interfere with public order, the police shall intervene. With regard to politically motivated violent extremism, there is close cooperation between the Police Authority and the Swedish Security Service, which has the task of gathering and analysing information to identify the groups that might pose a threat to Sweden. I believe that both authorities have the capacity to carry out their tasks, and they have also been allocated additional resources for this year. In addition, the National Coordinator for the Protection of Democracy Against Violent Ex-Tremism supports municipalities in developing their preventive work. Work to ensure everyone's equal right to feel safe on our streets will continue to be a priority for me and the government.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-390	Mr President, I would like to The issue of vigilantes is, unfortunately, an issue which has become increasingly topical in society. Let us make clear what a vigilante is all about. A vigilante is by definition a voluntary guard. Sometimes some vigilantes take on police duties. Some of them claim to be operating in the absence or waiting for official intervention. The concept of "citizen's guard" refers to the fact that it concerns citizens who themselves have taken on the task of guarding and protecting themselves, their environment or other protective phenomena. When do people feel they are inclined to start a vigilante? Then it's quite a long walk. It is when one feels that civil society is abandoned and wonders about the public's commitment to ensuring the citizens and the security that they have to demand. You're driven by frustration. You're driven many times by resignation. This must be prevented by relevant measures, and here too we must mark early when this happens. I will honestly say that I do not think we should have to debate this issue so much, because I am absolutely convinced that the Minister and the Government agree with all 349 Members of this House that this is a mischievous, an evil. With this interpellation, I want us in the Swedish Parliament to discuss the issue, raising it to a level so that no one can say anything other than that this issue is something that we have eyes on. I think it is important that all political forces oppose this. There is a topicality that has arisen today when the Soldiers of Odin group patrols some of our streets in different cities. The anti-racist magazine Expo has mapped that organization. It was founded in Finland two years ago by a well-known Nazi. According to Expo, the organisation is located in more than 15 locations in Sweden, and according to the newspaper, several of the people behind the organisation have previously been convicted of crime, and some members should also have links to Nazism and xenophobic groups. This is extremely worrying, because it is another dimension of vigilantes that we have not seen before. That's when there's a dimension of politics – call it pseudopolitics – where extremism is involved, where it's not just about protecting and protecting when you think that society isn't enough with its legal apparatus. This is about using it as a cover and platform to spread uncertainty in society. This means that the kind of vigilante that is now unfortunately beginning to come to life has another dimension that I feel is extremely important that we are observant of. Therefore, I would like a little clearer answers, a little clearer reasoning from the Minister on how we can link this growing extremism with responding to people not being concerned about crimes being committed, but also that we should not give these extremists the opportunity to patrol our streets.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-397	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I think we need to establish that people in Sweden feel safer today than they have in 20 years, if you look at the national security surveys. We can state that we have a very large number of police officers, that we have never invested more resources in the police than we do today. There is a good basis to stand on when we do the security-building work. Although I agree with everything Mr Rothenberg says, I think we need to make a distinction between two things. One is the positive desire to be involved in increasing security in its neighbourhood or in its city. It is when you are a help to the police, are eyes and ears and create security. It is when parents go out on the streets and in collaboration with the rest of society and authorities make a good effort to increase security. There's one thing. The second is those who go out on the streets in violation of the forces of law and order and often cause greater problems and problems for the forces of law and order than they solve. In the case of Soldiers of Odin, it is quite obvious that they belong to the latter category. They cause major problems for the police and have themselves made a horrifying impression as individuals in the load register that exists. They have themselves been guilty of quite a lot of crime. The question is, what are we going to do to counter this development? First of all, we should encourage all the good forces that want to help and make a secure society even more secure. It is all the parents who are involved in night hikes and all the hosts of the Calm Street and other similar organizations who go out and make magnificent contributions. The second is, of course, that we are beating down those who are trying to make the streets unsafe and trying to make a political point of being some sort of vigilante. I would like to go so far as to say that they are not a vigilante. They're more of a lynch mob. They have already decided in advance who are the perpetrators they are going after. I hope we will agree on the way forward. We will have a safer society, use all the good forces and continue to expand police and preventive activities in collaboration between school, social services and housing. Then we're gonna let the clowns in the Soldiers of Odin motas away.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-403	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. We come into another form of joint action by civil society. That is precisely the concept of neighbourly cooperation. There we are talking about something positive. The minister tanged it. Neighborhood cooperation is a collective name for measures that mean that residents in an area form a crime prevention network. Neighborhood cooperation means that neighbours and neighborhoods join together and prevent crime. There, various measures can be taken, such as guarding, marking property and reporting crimes to the police, and they are witnesses. It is particularly common in marinas that have been very exposed to theft of boat engines. These are low-hanging fruits that are picked from the water during the dark hours of the day. Neighborhood is the good part. But it is also important that neighbourly cooperation should remain in neighbourly cooperation and not have to turn into anything else. There's the line sometimes fine. It is very important that the authorities and the police have a watchful eye that neighbourly cooperation stops at this and does not degenerate from being some who monitor an area and report to be a larger group that monitors the area but also makes their own efforts and does not report. Then neighbourly cooperation has very quickly turned into a vigilante. That it should not go that way is a political responsibility that lies on the municipality to arrange the community, the city building and the guarding in a good way that makes people not feel that way. But it is also the responsibility of the state that there is a power of order that can react quite quickly when such things happen. Society is based on security and trust. When security and trust do not exist, situations arise when people feel that they need to take power into their own hands. From moderate quarters we argue that Sweden should work and the police should be there and when we need it. We have announced that 2 000 new police officers will be able to be trained over the next four years. To that is added almost SEK 2 billion in our budget. It is about recruiting, training and also keeping police officers. I have met police officers who, unfortunately, sometimes feel a little turned up over a crime that changes its character and prevents them from being present. I'm afraid what's behind this is alienation. The fact that people are outside is the biggest scourge our society has. This is not something that was invented during the first two years of the government. Nor was it invented during the time of the alliance government. It is something that we have unfortunately inherited for a number of decades. It's structural. It has been built up in a society where values have not been valued as the right to do justice and where many people have been excluded from the work community. From a moderate point of view, we want to strengthen the police's resources to be in place and thereby make the existence of this type of vigilante unnecessary.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-412	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we fully agree with the Moderates on the importance of having more police officers closer to the citizens. It was also the purpose of the major police reform that the Moderates initiated and that we have pursued. We've also made more money available to the police this year. There is a quarter of a billion dollars in the spring budget and another quarter of a billion to the Migration Agency to facilitate the police's work in that part. This autumn we will come back to how much we want to invest in the police forward. I have been clear and said that if the situation we are in now lasts, we will have to provide the police with additional resources.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-415	Mr President, I would like to I will not prolong the debate on what is not a real difference of opinion by just evicting words from me in this House. I take to heart the Minister's signals that this is something that is set under the top priority and will also follow the issue. I think there are many of us who will follow the question. It is with concern that you see what is happening. Many people also feel anxious when they are in streets and squares. Thank you for your future good work!
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-418	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Rothenberg. I look forward to further discussions. I also look forward to having more discussions in areas other than those for which I am directly responsible. If we are to solve this, we need more policemen, more rapid prosecution and clear sanctions, just as Mr Rothenberg is concerned. But it also requires more jobs, better schooling and reduced gaps. If we succeed on both sides, society will also move forward. Thank you for the debate.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-422	Mr President, I would like to Pia Nilsson has asked me how I, the government and the police are working to develop and improve the efforts to prosecute crimes and offences related to professional traffic. Road safety work is a self-evident and important part of the Politigheten's work to prevent, prevent and intervene against crime. An important starting point in the Agency's road safety strategy is therefore that all police officers in external service should be involved in the work against criminals in the road network, as well as checking sobriety and driving licences for each driver's and vehicle's control. First and foremost, the aim is to reduce the number of road deaths and injuries. However, checks on commercial traffic are aimed not only at improving road safety but also at ensuring fair competition and a good social situation for drivers. In each police region there are special groups specialised in controlling professional traffic. These groups consist of both police officers and specially trained car inspectors. In January 2015, new rules entered into force giving increased powers to car inspectors to take measures that previously required the competence of police officers. This provides better means of controlling and countering illegal commercial freight traffic and creates the conditions for more efficient police operations. However, greater security on our roads is not just a police issue but requires preventive action from the whole of society. In order to make more efficient use of society's resources, a trial with automatic sobriety controls in ports, known as alco-boms, has recently been carried out. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to prepare the introduction of alco-boms in three to five ports that are deemed suitable for this purpose. A statement of the mission shall be submitted to the Government Office no later than 31 October 2016. It is the responsibility of the Police Authority to assess how many traffic police officers and car inspectors are needed to carry out the tasks of the Police Authority in the field of traffic and how the overall resource is to be used. The Government intends to closely monitor developments and ensure that the Police Authority is in a position to fulfil its mission.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-427	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Minister Ygeman for his clarification. Yes, there is undeniably a lot of police work going on related to professional traffic – efforts that rarely reach the spotlight of the media or the headlines of the newspapers but are of the utmost importance for maintaining order and order in our roads. It feels safe to know that in every police region there are special groups specialised in controlling professional traffic. It is both traffic police and car inspectors who have now gained increased powers. Mr President, I would like to Since it took office in autumn 2014, the Government has implemented a series of important reforms for healthy competition, sustainable transport and the fairest conditions in the transport industry – and this has produced results! On 1 January 2015, new rules entered into force whereby fines of SEK 40 000 are levied from the infringer of the cabotage rules. For those who do not know what cabotage is: it simply means that a foreign carrier has the right to carry out up to three domestic transport operations in a country other than its home country within seven days in connection with an international transport operation. In addition, since 1 March 2015, the Police Authority and the Customs Authority may decide to trample a vehicle mechanically, electronically or with another locking device. The new rules also provide for the possibility to seize, for example, transport documents, registration plates and keys. And in May next year, the Swedish Transport Agency will report the Government's investigation commission on, among other things, a clearer client responsibility. Mr President, I would like to According to the Swedish Transport Agency, 97 cases – 97 cases – with infringements of cabotage rules have to date been dealt with. Of these, 87 have paid advances to the total amount of SEK 2.4 billion. The number of clamps is between ten and twelve. The government's strong action has produced results, and the Transport Agency and the police are very pleased with the positive effects that the reforms have actually brought. "The increased control and sanctioning fees have had a deterrent effect, says Rainer Nilsson, Section Manager at the Swedish Transport Agency. 中 Problems with foreign-based misbehaviour carriers have been reduced. ..................................................... The traffic police themselves also bear witness to the impact of the powerful sanctioning charges of SEK 40 000 and the possibility of squeezing. "We have not trampled on any vehicle" says the traffic police in Västra Götaland. We don't have to. We get the money anyway... it costs a lot of money to stand still... But, Mr President, there is a great cloud of concern. It was highlighted during my internship day with the traffic police in Västerås. What happens now, when more and more traffic officers retire? Will new traffic police be trained? Will the services be reinstated? What's going on? Ultimately, of course, it is the Police Authority itself that has to deal with these kinds of issues, but in what way can the Government ensure that the Police Authority has the right conditions to carry out its task of controlling professional traffic that is rolling on our roads even further?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-440	Mr President, I would like to I share Pia Nilsson's assessment that we have increased safety on our roads. The measures taken have led to more people having paid the fine in advance, and we have achieved a deterrent effect. The fact that there is now a chance to trample means that more people are paying fines. However, we will need to tighten up the clamping tool so that we will have more opportunities for clamping and to have that technology in more cars. Pia Nilsson asks three questions about how we can ensure that the right number of checks are carried out, that the right skills exist and that new staff are trained. I can answer that new traffic police will be trained. But perhaps even more important is that new car inspectors are being trained and six out of seven police regions are increasing the number of car inspectors. Car inspectors are the civilian professional category specialised in carrying out heavy-duty controls. In the case of ordinary traffic police activities against private motorists, it can be carried out to a greater extent by ordinary police officers in the local police areas. Here we also see a strong effect of the technological development such as ATK, automatic traffic camera. We will see other areas of development for new technologies. When it comes to both passenger cars and trucks and sobriety controls, we see the benefits of alcoboms in our ports. We see that the attempts made so far have been successful in that both those who have been driving alcohol in the body and in deterring others from drinking alcohol have been arrested, and in the second place, they have been able to drive with alcohol in the body. Technology development, human resources development and training are therefore needed, but also since the change of government a more active role in the European Union to ensure that Sweden is not in a corner but is part of the progressive forces that want to push for a social Europe and for a transport industry that competes on fair terms. This is necessary, because even though we have taken many on cabotage, both the cabotage rules and the combined directive are incalculable and difficult for the police to work with. If we had simpler and clearer rules, it would do a lot to clean up the market. We can also consider whether we should not go to more remote reading of tachographs in order to get even more new tools to keep track of things. The goal is to have such good order and law enforcement on our roads that the controls are directed to where we believe we have the greatest opportunity to do good and increase compliance.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-448	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman, for the clear answer! I think that those who listen to this debate, not least the current traffic police, can feel at ease with the message that the Minister for Home Affairs is giving: new traffic police will be trained. That is a very important message. Then I agree with the proposals presented by Anders Ygeman here, particularly on creating simpler and clearer rules. It is very important to have that transparency and clarity in professional transport in particular. The cleavage tool is important. Today, clamping is only possible for 24 hours. You can think about why. Work is now under way to review whether it is possible to remove the time limit and allow the clamping to go on as long as the rules are not complied with and the distortions and errors on the vehicle have not been adjusted. There are also some investigative assignments that the Swedish Transport Agency will report in May next year. Customer responsibility will be of great importance. It is a complicated work, but the Swedish Transport Agency is working frantically and will present something very interesting, we hope. Of course, we also hope that it will be effective. Anders Ygeman also mentioned that it is important that we are more active in the EU in order to find common ground here. I think, of course, that much more needs to be done, not least police. I know quite little about how the Swedish police cooperates with the police in other EU countries, precisely in terms of professional traffic and the control of cabotage traffic. It could be interesting if Anders Ygeman could mention briefly what that collaboration looks like. This problem is undeniably boundless. Joint international efforts are therefore needed, not least between EU countries. It is important that we get control of the rogue companies, so that we benefit serious and above all Swedish haulage companies, where good conditions and safety thinking are the norm. They should not have to compete with rogue companies that do not comply with the laws and rules that they have to comply with. I look forward to learning a little more about how the Swedish police cooperate with the police in other EU countries.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-455	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Ygeman, for the many clarifying answers! Nevertheless, I would like to ask what one might call a few control questions and to think a little about this by clapping. If we train more car inspectors who will have the task of controlling professional traffic, will they also have the opportunity to do so? That's a question you have to ask. If they're going to wait for a cop to come to get a walk-in, there won't be much of it. When you walk, it's the tow truck that you walk, while the trailer, with the goods, is still standing. In fact, it is already happening today that another tow truck comes along and takes the trailer and leaves. It can't be supposed to be like that. You have to push the trailer, too, but you don't do that today. In this context, one can also note that on a number of occasions motorcycling clubs, i.e. organised crime, have paid the penalty fees. We must look at this from a different point of view, of course, but it is interesting to see that organised crime is already present in this market. When we discuss these issues, the bourgeois parties raise the issue of road wear tax. I would like the Minister of the Interior to touch a little on the possibilities of a road-wear tax in terms of getting better track of this particular area. To me it seems like an opportunity that you could then have a GPS puck in each car to be able to check them a little better. I do not know if this is possible, but the Minister for the Interior will be able to answer the question. Then there are those who have or have had hopes that we could have a common organisation for the traffic police, i.e. that they within the police authorities would have special powers to work together. After all, it takes ten years to train a traffic police officer. A car inspector can finish a little faster, but with all the knowledge and practice required, it takes about ten years for a traffic police officer to complete their training. Given how the retirements among traffic police are taking off, there is a great risk that we will have a slump where we do not have enough police officers, even if we are now addressing the issue. After all, we cannot do much more than now tackle the issue. Old sins we suffer for. I would like to hear some reflections on whether there could be more forceful work in this way across the country, where traffic police can support each other.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-461	Mr President, I would like to These were many questions. I'll try to answer most of them. Perhaps some may return to future interpellations. As far as clapping is concerned, of course, I support the work. Even if it has so far been more effective than you might think, it is important that the wrongdoer should know that before the fines are paid you must not drive away with your car. As far as this is concerned, I will actually have to pass. We will have to come back to why the legislation is different. Customer responsibility is a good method. Here I agree entirely with the interpellier. It is a good method, perhaps not because it makes such a big difference directly, but because it sends an important signal to transport buyers and industry that they also have a responsibility for the social conditions and compliance that their orders give rise to. Let me raise this with cooperation within the European Union. Police cooperation is not so great when it comes to cabotage rules because it is something that occurs in the country where the transport has gone, where three loadings or unloadings are then made. In such cases, police cooperation is of little use. On the other hand, a great deal of political work is being done to bring about a better regulatory framework and to avoid what is sometimes referred to as big cabotage, i.e. where cabotage rules are used to the utmost and in a way that they were not intended for. It is in Sweden's interest to push for new, simpler rules both to make it easier for the police to control and to make it easier for the serious transport industry to comply with the rules. Nobody benefits from unclear rules. Car inspectors are an important part. They're faster to train. However, if they do not have the same opportunities as police officers, they must cooperate with the police, as Leif Pettersson pointed out. If you can't walk, you have to have a cop with you. I am no stranger to looking at the regulations for car inspectors, so that they are given as much impact as possible. So I am not closing the door to that possibility. As far as road user charges are concerned, we see developments in the United States. There you put gps-pucks on all cars that come from Mexico, and you have had a very positive development when it comes to compliance with the rules. In this sense, a road wear charge would remove the leg of illegal cabotage traffic. From that perspective, it would be very good to get a road wear charge in place. Then there was the issue of education, the question of regions and the organisation of traffic police activities. Today, development responsibility and policy responsibility for traffic police are at Trafik Region Mitt. Then it is a little different organized in those police regions. In the reform, the idea was that we should have a unified regional organisation, but two police regions have chosen to go a different way. That's why it's a little different organized. I believe that there is every reason to have an exchange of experience and knowledge in the heavy field. I hope that this training centre will be able to lead to this. When it comes to the light area, it is more about following theft and burglary leagues. It is a matter of intelligence cooperation in order to be able to keep that communication. Then I think that the past scapegoats, the new technologies and the new working life mean that we will see a different training pattern for the new traffic police. They will take shorter courses. They can then become specialists in different areas, so that you do not have to have all the skills gathered in one person. In northern Sweden, for example, certain types of education may be more important. In other parts of Sweden, there are others. Then we can, so to speak, speed up the base plate in the level of education. And different police officers then have different traffic police skills. I believe that, in the short term, it is in this way that we will have to meet the great need for education. Then there are car inspectors. In six out of seven police regions, the number of car inspectors is increasing.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-472	Mr President, I would like to We could sum up this debate as follows: the government's strong efforts to ensure fair competition, sustainable transport and the fairest conditions in the transport sector have produced results. The police now have the opportunity to charge a fine of SEK 40,000. The police now have the opportunity to trample, i.e. lock truck traffic to prevent further travel. The police now have the opportunity to seize keys, shipping documents and registration plates in case of non-compliance. Tools are in place. This, Mr President, could not be done by the police during the last parliamentary term because the Alliance Government did not give priority to traffic police work. The current government, on the other hand, has chosen to give priority to work, and the impact has not been delayed. 97 combination has to date been imposed fines equivalent to SEK 2.4 million. Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman has explained the police work on professional traffic in a clearer way. I note that much is being done, which is recognised not least by the traffic police themselves but also by the Swedish Transport Agency. The Minister has also explained how he will closely monitor developments in the future and that new traffic police will be trained. It is important, Mr President. It's necessary. And it feels safe.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-476	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the answers to my questions. That was clarification, and it is good that we are following these issues and that we can look forward to the future with confidence also in the case of car inspectors and what their competence and powers will be in the future. You take a closer look at it. It may not be possible to give them the authority of a policeman, but at least in certain situations they can get more power, so to speak, out on the road. Thank you for your answer.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-477	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank Pia Nilsson and Leif Pettersson for a good debate. For a number of years together we have been fighting for order on Swedish roads. I am pleased that they are continuing that fight and discussion. I am also pleased that they have heard for many of their views both from Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson, who is now moving on with permanent alco-boms in our ports and who are hard driving these issues in the EU, and in my area, where we see a sharp increase in both fines and car inspectors. Hopefully we can exchange this in greater order on Swedish roads and a successful Swedish transport industry, which can gain market share.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-479	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked the Minister of Justice and Migration what he intends to do to overcome the police shortage and vacancies in many police districts. Mikael Oscarsson has also asked what the Minister intends to do to address the problems raised by the new police organisation. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The new Police Authority started operations on 1 January 2015, but the work on implementing the reform will shape the agency in the coming years. A salary audit is also currently under way at the Agency. I can understand that anxiety and frustration can arise in connection with this. Personnel turnover among police officers as a whole remains low compared to the average for Swedish government. However, a worrying trend is that it is more young police officers with few years on duty who choose to leave the agency. It is therefore important that the Police Authority closely monitors and acts on the development of staff turnover within the Agency. I assume that the Police Authority and the workers' organisations have constructive cooperation with a view to developing the Police Authority in the best possible way in the long term. The reorganisation of the Swedish police is one of the most extensive organisational changes within the state in many years. It is of great importance that the intentions of the reorganisation are fulfilled and that the Police Authority is also in a good position to carry out its mission. Against this background, the Government has commissioned Statskontoret to evaluate the transformation in relation to its objectives and purpose. The Government has also proposed to the Riksdag in the 2016 spring amending budget that the Swedish Police Authority's funding for this year should increase by SEK 283 million. According to the budget base submitted by the Police Authority to the Government in February, the Authority estimates that the number of police employees needs to be increased in the longer term. The Government intends to closely monitor the development of the Political Authority's ability to fulfil its mission.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-482	Mr President, I would like to It is very urgent to discuss police matters. It is about people's security, and it is about protection against internal threats. For that reason, I was quite recently on a visit to Norduppland. I met employees with police officers and police chief of the North Uppland Police Department. I received a rather shaky report about the problems one has, especially with maintaining the external service. They had 60 positions, and 10 were vacancies. It was very difficult to keep the staff. What was particularly pointed out was the scarcity of resources and the overly low wages. Several female police officers I talked to, who had worked for six seven years, were still at $2,500 a month. It was also pointed out that there was a lack of skills development and unclear management and governance. In Upsala Nya Tidning, the chief police officer has been very clear. He expresses it as an emergency. Something must be done to cope with the day-to-day manning. Today, many police officers barely have time to eat. Data has come to light that you have up to 300 hours until midsummer to fill. It also highlights the latest survey by the Police Federation, which shows that 75 percent of the country's police officers in the past six months have considered quitting. The situation is worst in the Police Region Mitt, which includes Uppsala. Last week I had a conversation with Christer Nordström, who is a press speaker for the Uppsala police. He has been employed by the police for 46 years. He told me he's never been through anything like this. He felt that it was basically an organization in disintegration. It's such a big problem. He pointed out in particular that the new police organization was basically something that was positive but that there are a lot of things that have not become what one had in mind. There's one thing about staff recruitment. It is not possible to recruit locally. Instead of recruiting staff locally and sending it to training, the new police officers, for example, will be placed in North Uppland. It has turned out that many do not want anything more than to go somewhere else. This leads to a lack of continuity in many places, which means that police activities suffer. There is also very little incentive to remain in external service. There is evidence that new project tasks are constantly emerging, with wage increases. However, there are serious flaws in the reward for doing the external service. The question is: What is the Minister's view of the major challenges that the police are facing? What is the Minister's action plan to help with the problems of police who stop and police shortage, both in Uppsala and around the country?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-486	Mr President, I would like to We have never invested more resources in Swedish police than we do today. We have not had more police employees in Sweden in 40 years than we have today. We have almost as many police officers as we have had in the very best manned years. We see the same thing in Uppsala. In the Mitt Region, we have 37 more police officers today than we had a year and a half ago. It is 50.4 percent of the police are in external service in the local police areas, i.e. the goal that Mikael Oscarsson, together with a united parliament, set for police operations. At the same time, we should not turn a blind eye to the challenges. We have had years now with the greatest asylum reception since the Second World War, an enormous humanitarian effort that has also put the police organization under great pressure. We have border controls for the first time since 1994, a task that can devour great police resources, and we live with an elevated threat of terror that has been at the highest level of the scale ever for periods of time. At the same time, we have the largest reorganisation since 1965. It is clear that this puts pressure on the police organization. The risk, Mr President, is that these pressures will be passed on to the reorganisation that Mikael Oscarsson and a united parliament have been involved in deciding on, and will be passed on to the chief of police. We must ensure that we value Swedish police in a good way. They must have the right resources, and it is therefore gratifying that we have never invested more financial resources than now. We must also ensure that they have the right tools at their disposal. However, I don't think we should go in and poke in the toolbox and say: Here it should be a cop more, and here it should be a cop less. Those are things that the police professionals themselves have to deal with. They must give priority to the situation in their own local police area, in their own region. We have to trust the police to make professional judgements. On the other hand, we must ensure that they have a reasonable financial condition to do this, and that is why the government has spent EUR 283 million in the amending budget for this year in order to better meet these conditions, be able to employ civilian staff and thereby release uniformed staff in the field. This was also the reason why we contributed almost as much money to the Finnish Immigration Service's security work in order to reduce the burden on the police in external service. In North Uppland or up in Gästrikland and Västernorrland, refugee camps and asylum homes are often located quite far from population centres and with, sometimes, too poor staffing at night according to the Migration Agency. This situation has allowed far too many police officers to go on too many errands there, which has taken considerable resources from the police organisation. Therefore, both the addition to the Finnish Immigration Service's security work and their ability to better procure accommodation and the financial contribution we make to the police are important. Then the question is: Does the reform live up to the objectives that Parliament and the Government have set and agreed on? Will there be more police officers on the outside? Does the recruitment work the way it was intended, or is the concern raised about the local recruitment correct? These are things that Statskontoret's evaluation must answer, and I will be clear, Mikael Oscarsson: Although we have agreed in this House on the reorganisation, it is not the best reorganisation in the world that is my goal. My goal is safer people and less crime, and if there are things that the evaluation points to need to be changed, I hope that we can also meet these challenges in broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-497	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In many ways we have major challenges in society. We've got an increasing armaments. We see deals between different gangs basically every week. There is uncertainty that is growing for many groups in society. To go back to the press speaker in Uppsala, he keeps coming back and saying: Mikael, our task is to investigate and prosecute crimes. But today we don't have time for that. Although the intention has been that there will be more police officers in external service, in any case the reality in Uppsala does not look like that. When we talk to those responsible, it is not what we see, and it is something that is not at all satisfactory. Another thing that you hear very clearly from these police chiefs is that there is a constant stream of detailed control over them, in itself with good ideas, but you do not get more resources. There is a shortage of resources, and perhaps we need to go in and streamline our tasks from a political point of view – hijack and invest in the most important things. As for the passus about the great challenge we have with the flow of refugees, that is true. It is a huge challenge, but then you could take another proposal from the Christian Democrats, namely to reuse the emergency police to help relieve the police. It is therefore important to see the opportunities that exist to actually relieve the burden. This situation, which is so evident in my home county but which is also around the country, if you read in the newspapers, with police officers who quit after a few years and other problems, is something very serious. Then I think that although the intention and the basic idea in itself were good, one must now be prepared to make adjustments. It is also important to provide money. In our spring bill, in the supplementary budget, the Christian Democrats have proposed to add substantial amounts of money. I think it is extremely important that it is pushed to money so that you can hire new police officers and find ways to work so that you are rewarded for doing external service, what we so much want to see. One problem in Uppsala that I also made myself alive is that, unfortunately, despite the intentions, there is less and less local anchoring. There used to be a cop who worked locally or who was in charge of city or some other area, but it's gone. There's no resources for that. I believe that the Minister for the Interior is on the right track when he sees the seriousness of it, but now we need tangible action. Not only does this data come from Uppsala, but it is such a big crisis that some talk about perhaps the biggest crisis the police have ever had. It is not good in view of the growing crime, such as gun crimes and settlements that are on the increase. The police must work and be able to provide security!
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-506	Mr President, I would like to It is an opposition's privilege to criticise the government. It's reasonable, and it's okay. I think, however, that you should be careful with the words when describing the development in Sweden. It is not the case that crime is increasing, as Mikael Oscarsson expresses. Studies from the Crime Prevention Council show that, for example, violent crime shows a declining trend over 20 years. It also sank during the time that Mikael Oscarsson's party sat at the government power. This is a gratifying development. Take credit for having created a safer Sweden than to say that insecurity is growing! NTU, the National Security Survey, as the Crime Prevention Council also does, shows that we have the safest citizens in Sve Rige in 20 years. Please take the credit that you have been involved in creating safer citizens rather than saying as Mikael Oscarsson did now, that insecurity is growing! There is insecurity that is growing in parts of Sweden. We're gonna do something about it. But let's not pretend like everything's going the wrong way, because it's not. Mikael Oscarsson says that there is too much detail control. Let me remind you that the Mikael Oscarsson party, together with the three other alliance parties, proposed 37 new priorities for the police in discussions in the Committee on Justice, including priority animal rights violations. Let me also remind Mikael Oscarsson that his party, together with the three alliance parties, did not have a single proposal for what would be prioritised. 37 areas would be prioritised and nothing would be prioritised. That kind of political governance is not good for the police organization. The government has halved the regulation letter for the police. We've cut off the stick hunt. The reason is that we think the police are the best at being a cop. We should not send out directives and decrees from Stockholm that will then trick down in the police organization. Based on the local image in Norduppland, an assessment is made of how police resources are to be used. In Stockholm, the assessment is different. It is the police who work locally that can produce the best problem picture. I really agree with Mikael Oscarsson's basic analysis of detail control, but I would like Mikael Oscarsson's party and alliance colleagues to live up to it in practice. On the issue of police leadership, I am prepared to agree with Mikael Oscarsson. It's a long way to walk there. Although there is great dissatisfaction in the police with wages, the discontent with leadership is almost twice as great as the dissatisfaction with wages. That is a signal we must take seriously. We must also consider whether it was a good idea, on which all parties agreed, to appoint 2 900 new managers over a period of less than a year. This led so many to wonder if they would become boss and so many wondered who would be their boss. This made the leadership difficult and unclear in a situation where the Swedish police faced greater challenges than in many years. I don't believe in re-establishing the emergency services. It was abolished by the alliance government, and it was hardly used by the alliance government. It was a wise decision to abolish the emergency services. However, it may be that we need other intermediate forms between police volunteers and police officers. Let us discuss what they should contain and what competence it should be. Let us start from the needs of the police and what the police think you need help with. Today, we better solve the situation in refugee homes by having the Migration Agency staff there at night and that there are security guards and security guards in place when things are messy rather than there should be emergency police. Cops who stop are a problem – I mentioned this in my reply – especially the younger ones, but the turnover of the police is lower than that of most other government agencies. It's a problem we should focus on, but we shouldn't exaggerate it.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-519	Mr President, I would like to It's true that the P.P.D. was shut down. But we must also be prepared to reconsider closure and see that it is a resource that is needed. The Home Secretary was aware that this was an extraordinary event. Then it is good to be able to use the resources available. Of course, not all the misery is, but weapons strikes are on the increase. Fatal settlements occur week by week. There is growing insecurity in some groups. Regardless of how these problems are, it is important to see that they are real. There are problems with recruitment, getting police officers to stay, especially in the outlying areas. It creates a lack of stability. It's important. A lot of cops quit. In Uppsala police districts it is difficult to maintain a functioning external service. There are few rewards for it. It's something that needs to change, and it's important. On the issue of governance, the Minister agrees with me. It is important not only to look at these issues but also to act. As many as three out of four police officers have been thinking of quitting in the past year. Eighty-four percent point out the poor pay. 57% mention unclear leadership. Unclear decision-making processes are highlighted by almost 50%. It is also an issue highlighted by the police chiefs I have met. It is important for Anders Ygeman to realise that it is his job as responsible minister to see the problems, act and spend the money needed for the police to work so that Christer Nordström will not feel that the situation is the worst ever when he ends next year.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-524	Mr President, I would like to Of course, reality is never black or white. There are things that are positive, and there are things that are negative. The increased number of shootings is one such thing where I give Mikael Oscarsson the right. Although deadly violence is decreasing, illicit firearms are being dealt with more and more. This is a serious problem, and we must make efforts there. However, I am not sure that the increase in arms seizures is necessarily negative. It is fundamentally positive that we can remove weapons from the criminals. There are other good things too. The number of applicants to the Police College increased 50 per cent in the last intake. That's a good thing. But there are also worrying things: leadership, discontent and unclear organization. Then the question is how best to solve those challenges. All parties in the Swedish Parliament have agreed on the police reform. We have also agreed on the purpose, that is, more police officers closer to the citizens. Safer people bring less crime. That is the basic framework. If we see shortcomings in how the reform meets reality, it is reasonable that after Statskontoret has presented its evaluation, we sit down and think about how we can do the work better, not only together in the political parties but also together with the police union and the Police Authority. Could there be things to screw with? I believe in the police reform, on which all the parties in Parliament have agreed, but I am not going to turn it into a religion. What is important is that there should be more policemen closer to the citizens, more security and less crime. There, all parties in the Swedish Parliament can make an effort to achieve these goals.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-530	Mr President, I would like to Tomas Tobé has asked me whether I intend to work for the government to make proposals, in line with what the Moderates have proposed, to strengthen the safety of blue light personnel. In several cities around Sweden, there are residential areas that have become increasingly characterised by crime, social unrest and insecurity. There are also stones, vandalism, threats and violence against bluelight personnel and their vehicles. What we see is the result of a social development that accelerated during the previous government's time with increased divides and socio-economic segregation. It is a consequence of a policy that prioritises tax cuts before common welfare. To reverse this trend, efforts are needed from the whole of society and at all levels. The government takes the situation very seriously. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. In December 2015, the government presented a concerted response to organised crime. It consisted, among other things, of a mission to twelve authorities to develop forms of local cooperation against organised crime. The mission stresses the importance of working against organised crime in particularly vulnerable areas. The Government has also intensified the work on crime prevention with a national initiative in which, among other things, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council will develop a national support and coordination function for crime prevention. Earlier this year I held a round table with representatives from blue light authorities and trade unions. There were a number of proposals for measures to counter the threat, violence and damage to blue light personnel and their vehicles. What measures may need to be taken should now be prepared within the Government Office. The situation in vulnerable areas and the emergency personnel working in these areas are handled from several perspectives, and the government has taken several measures. It is a complex problem that is taken very seriously. I and the government intend to continue to work actively in this area.
i-TgGehQKqVG4wDE2BLA9UmM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is extremely important that there is a Sweden that works. Right now there is a situation where police cars are met by stones, tires are cut up on ambulances and equipment for firemen are stolen. It is clear that the Government seems to see the social problem, but what is extremely important now is that we show zero tolerance and that we act on this problem quickly. This phenomenon is not entirely new, Mr President, but it is clear that we have recently seen many examples which unfortunately speak of a worrying development. During the spring I have had the opportunity to visit what is commonly called alienation areas, that is, areas where we see that criminal networks and crime have a pretty firm grip. You certainly meet some positive ambassadors, and there is a lot of power in society to try to reverse developments. There is good work done with school and social services. But what is striking is that now something is broken that is very fundamental, namely trust. When I talk to the residents in the area, it becomes clear that they feel that the rule of law is not there enough. It is not the Government's fault, but I think it is important that the Government chooses to act and act quickly. The Government has already received some criticism today, but there is reason to criticise this area too. The Moderates have tried to be constructive. We are putting forward five concrete proposals which we think the government should proceed with. Violence against a civil servant shall be punishable by a sentence of at least six months in prison. Civil protection and health care personnel shall be fully included in the legislative provision on violence and threats to officials. A specific penalty for offences that are attacks on essential functions of society shall be introduced. The legislation is to be amended so that police officers can receive compensation in more cases than they do today. It's not okay to spit a cop in the face. The reports show that some youths are underage. It is a long-term and difficult problem to solve. The Moderates therefore suggest that young people aged 15 to 17 should be sentenced to youth services, such as rescue services and police. It is important to build trust and respect for these important social functions. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I appreciate that the Government sees this social problem, but the Government should be able to answer yes or no to any of our proposals. I think that Sweden's bluelight personnel deserve that.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-546	Mr President, I would like to Stone throwing is very dangerous. If you get a stone that weighs a kilo in your head, it's a touch of attempted murder. Damage to police cars is also dangerous to third parties, for the police may be on their way to an apartment dispute where a woman is beaten but cannot arrive. With regard to threats of violence, we saw in the Agenda television programme how threatening young people are to the police. They come right up in the face and threaten them in front of the TV cameras. That is totally unacceptable. The government has replied that it sees the results of a social development during the previous government's time with increased gaps. Then comes the favorite expression: It depends on tax cuts– you always use it. There's no connection between being poor and becoming a criminal. Sometimes poor economy and unemployment seem to be an excuse to become a criminal. I come from a very poor family, but I became a cop to show that I was good enough and did not have to go into the criminal course. Many of these young people are professionals at the age of 18. They have been involved in crime since they were 13 - 14 years old. In Sweden we have a penalty discount for adults between 18 and 21 years of age. In principle, an 18-year-old qualified person receives a 50% discount on the penalty. We find Moderates to be totally unacceptable. We believe that an adult should be judged as an adult. Therefore, we Moderates want to remove this penalty discount. It also proposed the P sanction investigation in its report, which was presented in 2012.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-552	Under the alliance government, a law was introduced to investigate all serious crimes committed by young people under the age of 15. The Victims' Agency has carried out an evaluation, and it turns out that 25% of the serious crimes are not investigated. It's troubling, because they're not pigeons. These are serious crimes such as murder, gross rapes, gang rapes and such. The law is not being followed by not all of them being investigated.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-555	Mr President, I would like to Even in this interpellation debate there are many questions. I want to apologize in advance for missing someone, but I will try to answer most of them. There must be no doubt about the reaction of society to those who attack those who are set to help. It is more important for society to show a united front than for the government, the Moderates or the Center Party to be right in each individual to come up with their proposals. I think we need more police officers closer to the citizens in the most vulnerable areas. Although security is increasing in society as a whole, we see that it is decreasing in socially vulnerable areas. Then more police officers in these areas are an important factor. In northern Botkyrka policemen increase by 50 per cent. In Rinkeby we get a new police station with over 200 new police employees. This development must be followed up in more of our vulnerable areas in order to solve the security problems of the people living there. They have as much right to feel security as me or Tomas Tobé has. They are at least as concerned about those who go after those who are set to help as me and Tomas Tobé are. We need more cops closer to the citizens. We need faster and clearer sanctions. It is, of course, criminalised and, in some cases, subject to quite severe punishment to attack those who are set to help others. But I have told the Center Party and I am prepared to tell the Moderates that there must be no doubt. If there are any doubts, we are prepared, together with you, to review the nature of the sanctions. I am not prepared to say yes or no to the proposals of the Moderates, no more than I am prepared to say yes or no to the proposals of the Center Party. But I can say so much that we should not disagree about the sanctions to apply to those who attack bluelight personnel. We agreed over the last two terms of office, and I think we will agree on the terms of office that will come. I am prepared to compromise in order to maintain the united front of society that there should be clear sanctions. In addition to having more police officers, clear sanctions and faster prosecution, we also need to see the social consequences. We must see the alienation that has grown in these areas. The gaps have grown when cuts and tax cuts have been prioritised over investments in the future. We see that school results have fallen and unemployment has risen. We must also reverse this trend. We can't solve suburban problems just through the police. We're going to have more cops, and the police are going to have a stronger presence. But we must also be able to do the other. Otherwise, the work situation of the police will eventually become untenable. Ellen Juntti says there is no connection between poverty and crime. As tempting as it would be to respond to that claim, I will pass it on to our criminologists. Last time I checked, they were able to show a certain connection between poverty and crime. Of course, it is not free of those with a high income from being criminals; it occurs in all social classes. But unfortunately there is some connection between social vulnerability and crime, which I think Ellen Juntti finds in the criminological literature. Again: I had a meeting in February with representatives of the police, rescue services and ambulance staff. They made important contributions to solving the situation. The Moderates have made their five points which I fundamentally welcome. I welcome the fact that you are active and constructive in this debate. The Center Party and some others have also made constructive contributions. Let's sit down together to solve this. It is an arduous way to ensure the order and safety of bluelight personnel.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-568	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the fact that the Government is prepared to discuss and listen to the proposals made by the Moderates, the Center Party and also by the bluelight staff. It is clear that we have a system that the basis of the legislative work means that a government prepares legislative proposals that are then discussed in the Riksdag. I have heard that the Government has said this in the past, but in the end it will boil down to the need for a reply, and there will be no response from the Government. There are words about this being a very serious social problem, about welcoming the proposals or about discussing the proposals. But the interesting thing is what the Government itself thinks of the proposals. That's what the whole interpellation is about. I think it is extremely important that we now quickly show that there is zero tolerance to this. It would be reasonable, then, if the Government could give notice of any of the political proposals put forward by the Moderates, which are included in the interpellation or in any other proposal. It cannot be the case that the government simply wants to talk about this issue, but it must also have the intention of moving forward. Otherwise, nothing will happen either. It is fundamentally welcome that the Government also wants to see more police officers. It is very gratifying that we can now see a change involving more police officers on the ground in many of the areas where there are major concerns. But in the long run, there is no doubt that we will need more police officers overall. The Moderates have put forward proposals for 2,000 new police officers. So far, no information has been received from the government on how to approach 2 000 new police officers. It would be welcome if we could find out about this too. Mr President, I would like to One can see a little bit from the Government's response and also from the debate in general that one very often wants to link this type of development to tax proposals from the previous government. I think that is a proof of poverty on how to look at this issue. It is clear that this is not about throwing stones because the Alliance Government introduced job tax deductions. I think the government should rise a little above that level. Then I can readily admit that only punitive measures or just zero tolerance are the answer to lifting exclusion areas. It would, of course, be naive to believe that. It is clear that this is about what the Moderates are proposing. We must ensure that the most skilled teachers are present in schools. We must ensure that jobs, entrepreneurship and self-sufficiency are available. We must have a social service that can carry out quality social work, a preventive work in order to try and find young people who are on the run quickly as hell. It is clear that this is a broad work, but here and now it is a matter of having a minister who can tell us what proposals the government is prepared to make.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-575	Mr President, I would like to The Ygeman government said I had said that there was no connection between poverty and crime. I don't think I said that. I said you don't have to become a criminal just because you're poor. Sometimes you almost use it as an excuse, but you don't have to become a criminal at all. There is social services, everyone gets to go to school and most things work, although there are of course problems. Gothenburg has begun to use body cameras on police officers. I think that is very good precisely in the attacks that were seen in Agenda. I hope it spreads all over the country. I don't think more punishment solves everything either. I never said that, and I don't think anyone believes that. Much else is needed, but it probably has some effect on having severe punishments. If you go to jail, you might think about one more time before you throw a stone in the head of a cop. The youths say it takes far too long between the crime and the judgment. There's nothing going on, so the kids don't take it seriously. The police say they don't even have time to write the report before they see that the youth they arrested an hour ago is already out. There must be faster links between crime and punishment. This was also raised by the Government, and I wonder: How does he intend to proceed with it? When will things happen? As Tomas Tobé said, there are many fine words, but when will there be proposals? In the exclusion areas, it has turned out that it is very difficult for female police officers to work. It's a matter of valuation. What does the Government think of that?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-580	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect for Ellen Juntti and Tomas Tobé, there must also be a limit to political rhetoric. This is what Tomas Tobé says: We must quickly show that there is zero tolerance towards stoning and attack on blue light personnel. It is clear that there is zero tolerance. Surely Tomas Tobé and Ellen Juntti do not mean that you tolerated stoning during your eight years in power, or that at the turn of the government we would begin to tolerate it? That is a ridiculous way of turning a serious question into simple rhetoric. I've been working seriously on the question. As I have said, I have convened blue-light personnel, their unions and employers. A moderate employer attended that meeting and participated in the debate himself. That employer will be able to report to Tomas Tobé on the measures and proposals that were highlighted. I have discussed the issues with the Moderate Group leader in the Committee on Justice to see what we could possibly agree on. I have discussed the issues with the party leader of the Center Party to see what we could possibly agree on. We prepare proposals in the Government Office. We give information in proposals and in the budget bill. We do not have the fair and simple order that one has in opposition, that one can give information on flyers and in press releases. We are trying to have a concerted approach, and I hope that the Moderates will be on that journey when we make concerted proposals. Again: Having said that, it sounds at Tomas Tobé like I should have sat and rested while the Moderates had come up with a lot of creative and hard suggestions. Firstly, I have gathered blue-light personnel and made a number of suggestions. Secondly, look back at the eight years you were in government and what we had to do when we took over! Let me give you a few examples to refresh Tomas Tobés's memory. When this government took over, it wasn't criminalized with terrorist war trips. There was not even such a proposal. We have now done so, and terrorist war trips are now criminalised in accordance with the UN resolution. When we took over power, 177 000 Swedish passports were on the hives of the world, and nothing had been done to put an end to that abuse. It is now blocked, and the bill has entered into force. When you raised the penalties for gun crimes, which was a good and well-pleasing measure that we welcomed, you forgot explosives and hand grenades. We are now putting an end to that. It is not that there is any difference of opinion between us about the view of attacks on ambulance personnel, on fire brigades and on police. We are united in this. Don't pretend you have a lot of creative suggestions that we're not prepared to talk about! I say this one more time to make it clear: we are prepared to act. We are prepared to put forward proposals, but that is and will be zero tolerance against attacking ambulances, rescue services and the police. What does this should know that society is united that the sanction will be clear.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-595	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by surprising the Council of State by saying that everything was not perfect during the year of the Alliance at government power. We did very well in the area of security. We made sure we got more cops and we finally turned things around. We shall be extremely happy about that today. Now we see the need for more police to face developments, especially in the 53 areas where we now see developments heading in the wrong direction. I realise very well that the Government does not want to give precise information on how to proceed with the legislative work. But I think that we should have been able to get more concrete information and not just general words about discussing this. I had a hope of being able to have it today. I also think that it has been a relatively long time since the Government began to express itself in this way. I have noted that many ministers need to do so for a certain period of time. But in the end comes a time when you should actually give a message. That was one of the reasons why I chose to submit this interpellation. The Moderates will be trusted. At all times, we will continue to take our own initiatives in the Riksdag or, even better, ensure that we can gain greater security for the bluelight staff. It should feel confident that the Moderates will do everything to demonstrate zero tolerance. This is not a social phenomenon that can be excused by any broad social development or exclusion. Here it is a question of basic social functions having to function. This basically means that we also get a Sweden that works.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-600	Mr President, I would like to My memory failed me, so I had to find out what the five proposals were that Tomas Tobé wanted me to comment on. He did not repeat them, and my memos could not be read to the point where something wise could be done of them. I'm absolutely prepared to watch sharper punishments. We must look at the situation in the other Nordic countries and in other countries and what effects it has had. There I am prepared to meet the Moderates. As far as civil protection and ambulance services are concerned, if I understand correctly, the Moderates have also left that proposal and made a compromise with the other alliance parties on a different formulation. I'm prepared to strengthen protection. Then we will see exactly what that wording should look like. There is a point to the fact that healthcare is not an exercise of authority – it clashes with other parts of healthcare ethics. There, demands have been made by both employers and ambulance staff. I'm sure you'll be able to look at the violation compensation. I don't have a good answer at the moment. I hope that Tomas Tobé will accept that, in any case, I tried to respond as best as possible to the concrete proposals in practical action. Once again, we are to be mouth-cuffed about the political dividing lines. We can have different opinions about where Sweden is going and where Sweden should be going. But I think there is a strong point in that society stands united in our support for the good guys and girls who are out and make Sweden safer, sometimes on difficult working hours and in difficult work situations. They do not deserve us to argue about it, but they deserve our unreserved support.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-606	Mr President, I would like to Mr Emilsson has asked me whether I am going to take any steps to ensure the protection and prevention of the destruction of cultural history environments and whether I am going to take any steps to ensure compliance with national objectives, laws and regulations that apply to cultural environmental work. Aron Emilsson has also asked if I am prepared to increase the funding and review the possibility of strengthening municipal competence in this area and whether I am going to take any legislative initiatives or take any other measures to safeguard Sweden's cultural history environments. I would like to begin by thanking the author of these questions. I would like to take every opportunity to tell you about the government's work to strengthen cultural heritage. The government wants to see a Sweden where many stories fit and different voices are heard. An inclusive cultural heritage policy is therefore one of the government's priorities during its term of office. The Government intends to submit a cultural heritage policy proposal to the Riksdag, and cultural environment issues are one of the areas that will be dealt with in the bill. A starting point for the work is that everyone has the right to participate in the development of cultural heritage and influence the common living environment. Cultural heritage and the cultural environment are a common concern and responsibility for many sectors of society. The national cultural environmental objectives have been decided by the Riksdag and are valid since 1 January 2014. The cultural environments give us knowledge and perspectives on history and society. The Government strives for the preservation of cultural environments, but also for their use and development. The National Antiquarie Office and the County Administrative Boards are responsible for ensuring compliance with laws and regulations in the area. These authorities also have a major responsibility for meeting national targets. I am well aware that cultural values are often threatened. Municipal planning is of great importance to the cultural environment, and here the issue of competence is of the utmost importance. The necessary skills must be ensured by the municipalities themselves. However, county administrative boards work closely with municipalities, including advice, supportive work and supervision. At the national level, the National Board of Antiquities works together with Boverket, among others, to develop methods and guides for the management of cultural environmental issues in urban planning. State aid to cultural environments currently amounts to more than SEK 250 million. This is of great importance for cultural environmental work throughout the country. I would also like to mention the church antiquarian compensation, which amounts to SEK 460 million per year. The rural development programme also offers a range of support opportunities that can be used to nurture and develop cultural environments.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-611	Mr President, I would like to Initially, I would like to thank the Minister for Culture for his reply but, at the same time, I regret that the answer to the questions I have asked is not really very much of a response, but rather the finding that the government does not actually have so many strategies at present but, as in other cultural heritage-related issues, refers to a future proposal for cultural heritage. On the other hand, it builds up high expectations of that bill once it is presented, and I look forward to that very much. In my interpellation, I asked the Minister four clear questions, all on the same basis: What does the government want to do to face the ongoing and in parts acute threat to many of the country's cultural environments? For our own part – but also for Kultursveriges – we do not get any information. We all know what is being done, what our national cultural environmental objectives are, what authorities are responsible for the issues and what the amount of state funding is. These statements are presented at the expense of important answers. However, a grateful statement by the Minister is that she is aware that cultural values are under threat. There we agree, and then we agree on a problem. The question is: if the government is also aware of the problem and even describes it as frequent, what do you want to do? Cultural environment Sweden has sounded particularly loud this year. Our physical environment and reference points involve, ranging from civil society to stakeholder organisations and authorities, and have expressed great concern this year. The Swedish Democrats have for several years proposed a series of reforms and increases in funding for safeguarding the nation's cultural environments of various kinds. The government parties have consistently rejected them, but they would make a big difference. I ask in my interpellation whether the Minister is prepared to strengthen protection and increase funding for the protection of the environment. Is she prepared to take any steps to prevent the destruction of cultural environments around the country? The government can set up a national coordinator, develop a strategy and form opinion in the media. This is done in other country-wide issues, but here you are generally very quiet. It is an impression that not only I, but also active in the field of cultural conservation, share. Can the Minister of Culture take this opportunity to give a reply on this issue? Do you want to strengthen the protection and, if so, how? Is it, for example, prepared to increase appropriations, which in practice have fallen over several years? An example that is directly related to this is the National Property Board, which took over about seventy properties from the National Heritage Office in 2015. Conscious of the fact that the additional funding of SEK 5 million was too low, it was nevertheless estimated that it would be possible to handle it within the overall framework of the agency. It was then noted that it is not possible and that an increase in funding is necessary – but is met with the announcement that the grant for 2016 will be reduced by SEK 150 million. If the level of funding becomes permanent, we must accept that the safeguards that exist for our state buildings cannot be complied with with with the consequence of progressively less maintenance, which leads to damage and destruction in the long term and ultimately threatens the existence of the environments and the collective memory. It is in addition to important values such as tourism and other economic values. It would be good to have clarification here from the Minister: is she prepared to act, and if so, how?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-618	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased with Aron Emilsson's commitment to cultural heritage issues. On the question of whether I am prepared to act, I can answer that there is nothing I am more prepared for. I currently have an entire department that is working hard to prepare the cultural heritage bill I intend to submit to Parliament before the end of this year. It will answer many more questions than those asked by Aron Emilsson in the interpellation. We have the solid work. It will be Sweden's first cultural heritage bill. You may think that I am proud to be the one who presents it to the Swedish Parliament. I am convinced that all of us who care about Sweden and the Swedish cultural heritage will be satisfied by it. It will be the most exciting bundle of words that we have read in a very long time. It is about how we should protect our environments, develop our country and preserve but also use our cultural heritage. I really look forward to having many and long discussions when we have presented the proposal first to the committee. You ask a series of questions in your interpellation. One of them applies if I want to take legislative action. I'm not a friend of laws just for the sake of the laws. I believe much more in people, individuals, and that we ourselves can and should arrange our society, respect each other and our history and, on the basis of a good will, develop our country and the people who live here. In addition, there is legislation, lots of legislation, which can be used. I am therefore much more concerned that we should look at the existing legislation. Perhaps it is appropriate that I mention some of the laws that exist. It is a comprehensive piece of legislation that protects these very environments. It is above all the Cultural Environment Act. It is central, and it is the county boards that have the practical responsibility for the application of that law. We have the National Heritage Office, which, according to the Cultural Environment Act, also has a special responsibility in this. We have the environmental code. It is another important law for the protection of our cultural environments. Among other things, the approximately 1,700 sites that are of national interest for the conservation of the cultural environment are protected by the Environmental Code. When it comes to the environmental code, both the county administrative boards and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency have central roles. Then there are the municipalities. They have a special responsibility when it comes to cultural environmental issues based on the provisions of the Planning and Construction Act. In addition to the municipalities, Boverket also plays an important role. My assessment of legislation, which Aron Emilsson yearns for, is that we do not need more laws, but we do need to apply the laws that exist. That is precisely why the cultural heritage bill that I am going to put forward will be so important. There we will work on application and break down the cultural heritage in its various parts to see what we need to do based on existing legislation in order to both preserve and develop our cultural environments and our cultural heritage as a whole.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-624	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for Culture is involved in these issues. But much is also up to the evidence. We see great shortcomings and great deprivation in the Swedish cultural environment. This is something that the industry itself testifies to both in local communities and from the responsible authorities. In addition to what measures and funding you want to see in the near future, my other issues concern compliance with national targets and regulations and long-term security of Sweden's cultural environments through competence enhancement. Boverket has noted that 48 per cent of municipalities lacked antiquarian competence in 2015, that is, almost half of the country's municipalities. It is very serious precisely in the light of what the Minister himself mentions, that they have a key role in terms of their planning monopoly. They have to handle cultural environment understanding both according to the Planning and Construction Act but also according to the Cultural Environment Act. The county administrative boards' general advice is, of course, very good. But it is far from enough. This is also borne out by many municipalities. For example, SD has proposed a national incentive grant for antiquarian skills in municipalities. The question is, what does the government want here? It is a concrete proposal that has been rejected, which does not relate to new legislation but to incentives. The situation is serious. It has been shown that urban environments are threatened and demolished because of ignorance. It is not only about older environments but also about new buildings that distort unique environments. For example, the planned Nobel House on Blasieholmen here in Stockholm has been very much discussed. Even His Majesty the King spoke, and this threatens national interests of various kinds. But Reger- no one is very quiet on that issue. The National Property Board has appealed against the plans. It also expresses the increasing number of adaptation requirements for cultural environments in general. The burden of proof of cultural and historical value is becoming tougher and tougher with regard to business and other things. Another current example of endangered cultural environments is the country's animal habitat and not least Karl-Tövåsen-Tövåsens in Dalarna. It has become a media symbol of the encounter between two different worlds. On the one hand, it is the last active pastures that carry biodiversity, cultural history buildings, small-scale food trades, endangered rural breeds, tourism and inherited knowledge of sustainable food production. It is the values of time and values we value. On the other hand, it is rigid and locked regulations and bureaucracy that cannot blur the paragraphs when cultural environments do not fit in the rule book. As a result, several hundred years of knowledge and inheritance can slowly but surely be erased. I visited Tin Gumun on Karl-Tövåsen-Tövåsens a few weeks ago. It is clear that the government must take responsibility for the authorities' being given revised directives, can coordinate better and understand what kind of cases they deal with in terms of cultural environments. The background in this case is the Cash Register Act, which requires activities over a given turnover to have an electronic cash register. However, derogations may be granted in specific environments. Here, instead, she is met by the Swedish Tax Agency does not understand or know what a pasture environment is. The County Administrative Board has cultural environmental directives with which the Swedish Tax Agency's proposals for solutions are completely incompatible. The question is how to handle it. There is simply a need for a review of the cooperation between the authorities on cultural environmental issues. Fäbodbrukers like Tin Gumun do a tremendously appreciated cultural work. But they are met by an official government that overinterprets legislation, objectives and intentions that we have set ourselves from a political point of view. She also points out that many farm farmers and others in incredibly valuable cultural environments are reluctant to develop their activities in the face of the risk of being placed in the same situation where they are locked between different types of authorities. Karl-Tövåsens has been used for 350 years. It is a symbol of really old Swedish cultural environments of which there remains a waste.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-636	Mr President, I would like to Think, it must please Aron Emilsson immensely that I am the Minister of Culture who finally presents Sweden's first cultural heritage bill to the Swedish Parliament. It must feel wonderful given the commitment that you have to the cultural heritage issues and the complex picture that the Member of Parliament so well describes. I am prepared to agree with much of what Mr Emilsson just described. We have enormous challenges in terms of our cultural heritage. It is high time to take hold of it and do it forcefully. Above all, it is high time to lay a proper foundation for Swedish cultural heritage based on science and research into what actually forms a cultural heritage. What shapes a culture, a country, a nation, a people, a part of Europe and the world? How should we ensure that our institutions and all those who in different ways carry different parts of the cultural heritage do so on the basis of scientific grounds and how a cultural heritage develops? There are forces of darkness here in Sweden and around Europe. We do not need to go far across the Baltic Sea to see how restrictions on cultural heritage are currently being made. Film clippings, cutting away parts of museums, and restricting freedom of expression and the press. It is a key element in shaping and developing a cultural heritage. It feels very hopeful that the Swedish Democrat Aron Emilsson is passionate about the cultural heritage and seems to post the text on how he and hopefully the whole party should be involved in developing this. As I said earlier, there are already huge amounts of money, measured by many measures, that are invested in different ways in the cultural heritage environments. We have SEK 250 million in a grant, SEK 460 million per year in the church antiquarian compensation and so on – and we have several authorities who in their regulatory letters, based on their instructions and with their annual grants in different ways work with the cultural heritage and with the conservation of the cultural environment. But just as Aron Emilsson describes and as many of the authorities in the industry that the Member of Parliament seems to have such good contacts with describe, the problem is competence, which is often lacking, and not malice. Virtually all the people I meet, tell and burn on cultural heritage issues are also passionate about cultural heritage because they understand the importance of it. If you don't know your story, you risk a lot. Unless you know how Sweden has evolved through centuries and millennia is at stake, and much can go wrong. That is why it is so important to have competence and competence development and with what the industry describes to me: collaboration between the various actors in society. There is enormous expertise, especially in some authorities, and many municipalities want to take on the expertise to be able to take on the responsibilities that they have under law. But the whole chain is needed for this to work.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-644	Mr President, I would like to To begin by commenting on the huge sums of money that appear to be available for the protection of the environment: it is no longer a huge amount of money. The Swedish National Property Board's total appropriation of 340 million has been cut by 150 million over the past year. In fact, the protection of the environment has been reduced due to inflation and other factors in recent years and not counted for many years. The church antiquarian compensation governs some of the church's historical environments, but in large part it is still the parishes that bear the greatest costs. This has not been listed for a long time either. Sweden's cultural environments are very important. They represent the history and development of our country, just as the Minister of Culture mentions. They also tell about the collective memory and form reference points that often give each place its unicity. Building a community of high cultural historical value – it can be station buildings, schools, churches or older landscape environments – mobilises local voluntary commitment worth protecting but also attracts tourists from all over the world every year. A cohesive society nurtures the physical spaces that convey our mental history through settlement history or landscape management. I call on the government to take this seriously if not for us now alive so for our future generations. Worth mentioning in this context is that Sweden was among the first countries to protect their cultural heritage. Already in 1666 the first antiquity law, the so-called placard, was issued. It was the first law of its kind issued in any country. During the 20th century, some building protection has been added, but Swedish cultural historical environments have been demolished and distorted – not least by the Social Democracy since the 1960s, as the Minister of Culture probably knows. Old writings testify to past times, to work and toil, to sweat and tears, but also to fellowship, fellowship and joy that have shaped these physical rooms. It is a heritage well worth caring for, and I look forward to the bill that the government will present.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-649	Mr President, I would like to There is not a huge amount of money, but I would say there is a greater challenge. The total amount of all the different bodies and authorities and the pure state funding for cultural heritage work is less of a problem than the lack of competence and cooperation. That does not mean that we need to look at both of these pieces as we are now developing cultural heritage policy in our country – which it is extremely urgent that we do, because, as I said earlier, there are five in twelve. There are many dark forces moving in our neighbours, in our country and around Europe and the world. If you care about the Swedish cultural heritage, it is time to roll up your sleeves and fight hard, which I do and will do to the last. However, I would like to thank Mr Emilsson for this debate. I look forward to many conversations about the cultural heritage, about Swedish culture, about our traditions and how to preserve and develop them. Our cultural environment is all around us. Everyone should also have the opportunity to influence it because it is part of us and what we do and are in the rooms where we are. As the honourable Member said, it is not just about us here at the moment, it is about the future – about the people who are not yet here but may live here in 50, 100, 500 and 1,000 years. I would like to conclude by again thanking you for your commitment. I look forward to many discussions on this subject.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-654	Mr President, I would like to Mr Emilsson has asked me whether I am prepared to act urgently in order to implement the proposal by the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority on the design of the event list. An event list is a list of events deemed to be of such particular importance to society that, where necessary, it must be possible to take measures to protect the right to information and ensure wide public access to television broadcasts. In other words, an event list provides an opportunity for the State to restrict the rights of rightholders in favour of citizens' need for information. Careful consideration is needed in order to strike the right balance between, on the one hand, the freedom to conduct a business, the right to intellectual property and the importance of effective competition and, on the other hand, the fundamental right of citizens to receive information. The provisions of the Broadcasting Act that state that the Government can provide regulations on which events are of particular importance to Swedish society have existed since 1999 and originate from the so-called TV Directive, now the AV Directive. Under the AV Directive, Member States are required to notify to the European Commission any measures taken or to be taken for approval, which means that the Commission is carrying out a verification of whether the measures comply with the requirements of the AV Directive, the EU competition rules and the requirement of proportionality. The Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency has proposed that the restriction of the possibility of using exclusive broadcasting rights to events should apply to those rights that have been acquired at the earliest on the date when the European Commission publishes a decision approving a Swedish event list. The Radio and Television Agency's proposal for an event list has been submitted to authorities and companies for comments by 5 September 2016. The Government will then take a position on the Authority's proposals in the light of the responses of the consultation bodies and taking into account the EU acquis.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-660	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start again by thanking the Minister for Culture for his reply and underlining the importance of having this debate – as did the previous one. The issue of the event list involves both public service broadcasting and the general public themselves. I would say that the introduction of an event list is one of the few cultural policy issues that many Swedes would be happy to see directly different in houses and homes from north to south and from west to east. Being able to see our biggest sporting and cultural events, whether you have what is sometimes called forest television or all possible cable channels, is also a democracy issue and a question of equivalence and national solidarity. It should therefore involve the Minister in this regard too. The question is how do you intend to act now? As we have seen, the issue of establishing an event list with a number of major sporting events that are considered to be of general interest to the Swedish people has been discussed for several years. In 2012, the Swedish Parliament gave the previous government an announcement to have a proposal for how an event list could be designed. Since then, more announcements have been presented. Last autumn, the Government gave the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency a renewed mission to move on with the issue, which was, of course, right and proper. At the same time, the government does not yet seem to have put its foot down on the issue and expressed a concrete position for or against an event list. The Swedish democrats have been exercising in the matter in recent years, and the public service companies and other actors in the television market are also waiting for a position. As we know, it is not uncommon to send reports from the authorities for a further round of consultations, but it is also perfectly possible to present a proposal if you think you have sufficient evidence. Given that almost all the referrals have already been made in the report, the question is what the government expects to be added. In the end, this is an issue of opinion where the government must take a stand. Continued investigations will not take the issue forward, but the government itself will have to put its foot down. The responsible authority has sought the views of the stakeholders, carried out impact assessments and made proposals for the preparation of an event list that is more consistent with the intention of the parliament and government. It is also assessed that the proposal complies with the AV Directive, EU law and the criteria set by the European Commission. What is the government's starting point and position for the future?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-668	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that Mr Emilsson is right that this is an issue that involves many people. We want to have access to events, especially events of the nature of the event list. It is events that bind us together, that make us feel connected and that we want to take part in because we are engrossed in these major activities, not least when our country is represented in sports competitions or other types of events. The Parliament has, as the Member of Parliament says, made an announcement. We have reacted to the announcements, and now the Authority has submitted its report. We have a system that is a good order, which I think we should both be proud of and use, that we have the opportunity to send out documentation on consultation rounds. There are often answers that can come in consultation rounds that were not included in the basis. There may be further perspectives, also because times, technology and opportunities change. The delicate task with regard to the event list is precisely that we want a working balance between, on the one hand, the public's right to information and, on the other hand, property rights and effective and free competition. The latter is not least important. We'll get back to you. There are a few months left until the consultation round ends. Then the government will have to put its foot down and give a response.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-672	Mr President, I would like to Of course, reference is made to the fact that the consultation round is now under way. At the same time, we must bear in mind that it has not been long since, through its own consultation procedure, the Authority has sought impact assessments and answers to relevant questions. But the government has not really stated any objective. In comparison with other major cultural policy issues that have been investigated and dealt with by public authorities and stakeholder organisations, there has been a very withdrawn approach here. Compared with the way in which we have acted in the area of film policy, which we will be debating later this week, and the hasty procedure there, with a very badly grounded new policy, is here very withdrawn and unclear. Some questions that arise are: Does the Minister of Culture believe that the new consultation round will provide sufficient basis for a proposal? If not, what has the Minister of Culture done to ensure that the necessary evidence is obtained as soon as possible? There are many issues that are important here, and of course there are many considerations. The Swedish Radio and Television Agency has concluded that the list is in line with the AV Directive, EU law and other EU criteria, so the question is whether it is the Swedish Prudence Syndrome that makes you want to leave it on a long bench for a while longer. Will it lead to something new on the subject? As a social conservative, I'm really a friend of cautious progress, impact assessments and thorough preparation – which is good and wise – but it's a good thing if it's moving. The fact that the Competition Authority and some commercial broadcasters have comments is obvious, because, as the Minister also mentioned in the interpellation response, this will lead to a degree of distortion of competition. It is a natural consequence of the introduction of an event list for the benefit of citizens and the public. Nevertheless, we elected representatives must respond to this and explain: citizens' access is more important in this case. It is about democratic access to major sporting events that weld together the citizens and give us various forms of cultural education. The question is how the government wants to move forward. Do you have an attitude of your own yet or not?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-677	Mr President, I would like to As a social liberal, I am keen to pursue a responsible policy that is in the interests of both the individual and society. Now we have a process and a order of consultation. I do not intend to anticipate the results of the consultation round until I get back to you on how we proceed. What we have now done is that we have taken care of the announcement. We have respected the order we have in the Swedish Parliament. We will come back when we have something more to say on this issue.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-679	Mr President, I would like to I shall then conclude by saying that I and many of us will be watching this issue closely. We look forward to what the government will present its position when this consultation round is completed and we can move forward and make a workshop out of the announcements, government assignments, government reports and referrals prepared during these years. I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer for the time being.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-681	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Member of Parliament for the interpellation.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-682	Mr President, I would like to Eva Lohman has asked me if I intend to take the initiative for further action – and if so what measures – to ensure that government contributions go to civil society organisations that comply with rules on democracy and human rights. First of all, let me emphasise that the government rejects the appalling and appalling statements made by the then Vice-President of the Turkish Federation in connection with a manifestation in Sergels plaza on 9 April. Statements like these do not belong in our democratic society. There are a number of structural conditions that apply to government contributions to civil society organisations. Government grants should not be given to organisations that carry out activities that run counter to the ideas of democracy and to the principles of equal value and rights of all people. In accordance with most regulations on state aid to civil society organisations, contributions can only be made to an organisation that has a democratic structure and carries out activities that respect the ideas of democracy. It is also possible for authorities to recover State aid granted on incorrect grounds. I agree with Eva Lohman that civil society actors play an important role in society. Support for civil society organisations is a basis for civil society organisations to play an active role in democracy. The Government conducts annual follow-ups with contributing authorities. The Government is also working to increase the clarity of the grant provision in order to ensure that the grant conditions are complied with. In 2015, a review of a number of regulations was carried out, as reported in DS 2015:38, State aid to civil society – a review of four grant regulations and support to Exit. The memorandum contains proposals for strengthened democracy criteria for several contributions to organisations now being prepared within the Government Office. The government has also identified a need to review the state's support to the religious communities and plans to set up an investigation to review this support. To conclude, I would like to point out that the few organisations and individuals who exploit the systems of activities that undermine the principles of democracy destroy all thousands of organisations that daily improve our society. They undermine confidence in the state subsidies we have. It is important that all organisations receiving support are aware of the conditions attached to the support in terms of having activities that respect democratic values. We, therefore, who are responsible for state support for civil society, must ensure that there is a reasonable level of control on the ground.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-688	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am aware of the criteria that exist for how government contributions are to be given to civil society organisations and associations and the importance of their compliance. It's very important. However, it turns out that structural conditions and criteria do not always correspond to reality. I have mentioned in my interpellation the statement made on 9 April. It must be assumed that a Vice-President knew what the criteria were for his organisation. Yet, there was an infringement. As the Minister says, these are statements that do not belong in our democratic society. We should not accept such things. However, I wonder why, time and again, organisations and associations that receive state subsidies do not live up to the criteria that they have promised to follow. I think it is very serious that they do not. Such behavior must somehow be curbed in its infancy. Now I'm talking about the entire civil society, the approximately 200 000 organisations that exist, including the religions. Does the Minister have any idea why organisations and associations do not meet the criteria they have promised to follow? I'll keep going a little bit, and I'll get back to that question. I believe that society must be very clear and sharp about the fact that we do not condone such abuses at all. Another important aspect, as the Minister says in his reply, is that the vast majority of organisations and associations that receive state aid are operating perfectly well. Some destroy and cast shadow over the others. It's not fair for those who work well. We have a civil society of which I, as a Member and as a private individual, am very much concerned and of which I am also an active part. But I have a thought and a question: do the criteria live their own lives and are they completely separate from reality? It is therefore a question of the structural conditions and criteria. What happens when money has been granted? How is the information when the application is granted? Do the associations say that they have taken part in the matter? Do they do it once, or is it going on? Or is it just too flawed?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-692	Mr President, I would like to As Eva Lohman describes – there we really agree – we have a fantastic civil society in our country. We have one of the widest and most robust civil societies. It makes our country a unique country. When you talk to scientists, they often say that we have one of the very best civil societies in the world. I'd say we have the best. One of the reasons why civil society in Sweden has been able to become so strong is that we have a very generous benefit system. It is a very generous support system for organisations. It is a system that also contributes to that in Sweden it is not only those who are rich who can organize themselves or form associations. Everyone can, more or less. We have created the conditions for this. This, in turn, has made our country stronger and better. I've been a scout myself. I do not know whether the Member of Parliament has taken part in the Scouts' activities. But much of what I have learned about leadership, organizational development and conflict management has been learned in the Scouts. I was one of the youngest patrolmen ever in my corps. The Scouts are the organisation that received the most support last year, followed closely by Sverok and then by Sweden's Students' Unions and so on. As the Member of Parliament describes, most associations and organisations that receive relatively large amounts of taxpayers' money are organisations that not only behave but also build individuals and build society. It is a fantastic activity that is being conducted. As a taxpayer, I am proud to contribute to this and to this development of people and society as a whole. That's why it's extremely provocative and sad-- you get, to put it mildly, angry and upset-- when there are people who use the system and show that we can't trust them. That is precisely why I have been frustrated for many years, not least as an active member of civil society or as general director of an authority, that we have not done everything we can to correct and steer our systems so that we can close the holes as far as possible. We will never be able to protect ourselves 100% against malice and evil. But we can do everything we can. That is why I am very proud to be Minister of Culture and Democracy in a government that is now taking hold of this. The abuse did not occur a year and a half ago, but this has been going on for a long time. Of course we can do more. What we are doing now is a review of our various systems. Among other things, the difference between the various regulations and the various contributing authorities is too great. Only there will we find solutions that will take us forward and make our system more secure.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-698	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is important that the organisations and associations that receive government grants are aware of what applies in Sweden, how we want it and what democratic values we have – this applies not least to girls' and women's rights. We must never blur on that, but it must be followed. We must be sure that the organisations and associations that receive state subsidies also take part in the criteria that exist, so that they know what applies. If you lose your contribution, you know why. I have written down the following: democratic building, respect for democracy and the principles of equal value for people. These are criteria that must always be kept alive in each organisation and association, not just when the application is submitted. This should live all the time – every day and every week. How does the Minister ensure that this is the case?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-700	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's exactly what we're about to start. We are starting a work that actually takes a holistic approach to all the different regulations – there are many different – and the many authorities that provide state aid in different forms. It is high time for that coordination. We are investigating to ensure that we get the long-term and consistency of the various regulations. We are also looking at the various types of organisational support available to civil society. For example, we will examine in particular the state's support for religious communities. That decree has not been reviewed since the church was separated from the state, at the turn of the millennium. It is high time to do so. One starting point, one objective, with this review, is to strengthen the requirements for democratic values among the communities receiving state aid. We have also made proposals for strengthened democracy criteria for several contributions to organisations, including ethnic organisations. We shall now proceed with these proposals and prepare them. We will also review how the authorities work, and we will make demands for cooperation between the various authorities. The authorities should also share their different procedures so that we ensure that we get the best practice, both when we study the first application itself and, not least, as the honourable Member points out, when it comes to how we follow up and ensure that we comply with the requirements of all those who receive the great trust to receive state support for their activities.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-704	Mr President, I would like to We are living in a troubled time, and it is important that society is resistant to various phenomena that threaten our values. I am therefore pleased to hear that the Minister is now proposing stronger democracy criteria and stronger control of organisations receiving state subsidies. This hopefully means that in the future we will not have statements like those we heard on 9 April in Sergels Torg. I really hope so. Finally, as a former teacher, I would like to say that repetition is the mother of knowledge. Ensuring that the information, criteria and structural conditions that apply to organisations and associations are kept alive at all times is the safest way to ensure that the flagrant abuses that occur from time to time may not occur.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-707	Madam President, I would like I wish we could set up a system that allowed us to avoid hateful statements forever. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the review that we are now doing will stop it. On the other hand, I will do everything I can to ensure that the review we are now carrying out results in the fact that it is not, in any case, government subsidies, taxpayers' money, which goes to and supports organisations that have representatives that make such statements. That is totally unacceptable. I am extremely pleased and proud that the Member of Parliament, along with many others, has reacted so strongly to what has happened and also welcomed the various reviews that we are now doing. There must be many of us who together defend our democracy, respect for fundamental human rights and our view of humanity. As I said in a previous interpellation: There are many forces of darkness going on in our country and around us, so we need to stand strong now, we who have faith in the equal value of all people. Thanks for the interpellation!
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-711	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Magnusson has asked me what measures I intend to take to provide children and young people with the necessary tools to critically review the moving medium. I note that many measures are already being taken. At a time when our picture of reality is increasingly formed and disseminated via digital media, the need for knowledge and understanding of how media works increases. The ability to find, analyse, critically value and create content in the media is now essential if you are to be an active citizen of society. Commonly, these abilities gather under the concept of media and information literacy, MIK. The State Media Council is tasked with promoting children and young people as conscious media users and protecting them from harmful media influences. By equipping children and young people with media and information literacy, the Authority contributes to strengthening children's critical thinking in relation to information and content in the media. The agency produces educational material for children and young people and adults who are close to the children, such as parents, librarians and teachers. With a special focus on critical analysis of moving images, the Swedish Media Council in 2015 has initiated a collaboration with Konstfack in order to develop knowledge about the importance of the image in the media and information society. The cooperation will continue in 2016. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child – the Convention on the Rights of the Child – states that all children have a right to culture. One of the goals of the government's film bill is that children and young people throughout the country, regardless of their functional ability, should have good opportunities to see films and gain knowledge about film and moving images. Film pedagogy at school plays an essential role at all levels. The curriculum, course and subject plans for comprehensive school and upper secondary school require both students' knowledge of and their ability to create moving images. Film policy will contribute to providing teachers of different school forms throughout the country with skills development and educational tools to enable students to meet the knowledge requirements. Association-driven film activities are also of great importance for children's and young people's knowledge of moving images and opportunities for their own creation. Interest in using film in school is still growing and the demand for competence development in film education among teachers remains high. Among other things, the Film Institute collaborates with five middle school classes around the country on film education in the Kompisskolor project. Experiences from the Kompisskolan project are regularly published on the Film Institute's website as inspiration for other educators. The Film Institute also carries out many other activities to strengthen the work of film education, including through school cinema days and courses for film educators and teachers. Suzanne Osten's assignment as a children's film ambassador should also be mentioned. In a world where communication through images is becoming more and more common online, children and young people need to be able to take a stand on, for example, the norms and values that images convey and have critical thinking in relation to them. Therefore, both the Swedish Media Council's work with media and information literacy and the Film Institute's work with film education are extremely important. I will continue to work to ensure that children and young people really have the necessary tools to critically review the moving medium.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-721	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to take note of the Government's answer to my question. I would also like the Government to support the film as an important cultural expression together with the literature, picture and other art forms, because the film has such an important focus in Swedish culture. As the Government said, we live in a time where the picture characterizes our existence. Everyone, young and old, is characterized by this, and already in pre-school age young people are online. There they are very vulnerable, just like in the streets and squares. Of course, parents are the most important and closest defences, and parents must also be given the opportunity to support in their task of teaching children a critical review. There comes the most important effort that I and we see it: the students. Those who study to preschool teachers, primary school teachers and secondary school teachers must in their initial education learn about the significance and power of the picture and how children can be given tools to learn how to handle the picture. Being able to inoculate critical thinking at an early age is an important parameter in a film policy with quality. Young people film everyday events with their mobile cameras. Many people post clips on social media. Blogs and podcasts attract hundreds of young followers. The control of their compliance with ordinary laws and regulations is not entirely watertight. Much needs to be done there to protect the children. More and more people can make films today and realize their artistic film dreams without having to be limited by economic conditions. That's good. At the same time, film and other media can manipulate reality. The fact that everyone has constant access to film cameras poses risks. We adults must ensure that there are limits and tools to deal with the risks. Does the Minister of Culture know how many hours of teacher training are taught to students how to help children to critically review films? Does the Minister of Culture know how many hours this is done in teacher training?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-727	Madam President, I would like Thank you for further discussion on this important subject. Just as Cecilia Magnusson describes, MIK, the ability to handle and work and critically review moving images, concerns many different policy areas. Education policy at the various levels is particularly important, not only for children and young people attending school but also for teachers. I don't know exactly how many hours, or how few hours, I suspect there are few hours, the teachers get. This is an area that we are currently working on. For the first time, the Head of Department at the Ministry of Culture, which is me, together with the Ministry of Education's Head of Department Gustav Fridolin, has formed a working group between our two departments. It's brand-new. This has not happened before in that form when the departments have been divided. This is so that we can identify some of the areas where we jointly see the need for that knowledge, including based on experiences from the various authorities we work with now. For example, I am responsible for the Swedish Media Council, the authority that today works a lot to develop various tools and materials for teachers, parents and young people. Gustav Fridolin has the opportunity as Head of Department at the Ministry of Education to influence what the teacher education looks like, although Hellmark Knutsson is responsible for higher education. This area is currently under the rooster. Progress is extremely rapid. There will be numbers after numbers and backgrounds that show that we are the step behind. This is serious, both when it comes to moving images having to become a tool that many young people can develop from a purely cultural policy perspective, but also in terms of violent extremism. We see how dark forces and extremists use the moving image in different ways to attract and radicalize young people. We need to equip our children and young people, not least through the teachers, just as Cecilia Magnusson describes, so that they can critically review and see through the messages. Who's the sender? In what way are the different images cut together? What is the story that becomes strong in the picture? The image is one of the strongest media and communication tools we have. One of the things that exists is the IDA Group. It is therefore officials from the Ministry of Culture and Education who work at Gustav Fridolin and my mission to develop proposals for new political tools. There we have identified the MIK issues. We need to see what different and new assignments are to be given to our authorities. Just as Cecilia Magnusson states, media use goes a long way down in the ages. Even small children, one-year-olds and two-year-olds, handle image media. Therefore, the Swedish Media Council, the authority that works most with this issue, has since autumn 2014 completed a pilot training of child care centres. They are one of the platforms we have identified in recent years in Sweden where we reach many new parents who need knowledge about children's and young people's daily media, tools and parents' responsibility. I look forward to hearing the answer to the exact number, or few, hours, of teaching students today to develop knowledge in this area. It is important knowledge that needs to reach our children.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-734	Madam President, I would like It's three hours scheduled for pre-school training. In none of the other trainings there are a few hours that are specially intended for this. It is a sub-grade for modern Swedish teacher education. The next step is an understatement. I would have appreciated if the government had included in the motion for a film policy a critical review of teacher education already for the pre-school age. Three hours is only enough to sort out what a film does and how a film can manipulate. These issues are being worked on carefully at the University of Gothenburg. It organises training – just what the Minister of Culture raised – for schools and teachers who want tools to transfer that knowledge. It is extremely important to quickly get into teacher education, in a consistent scientific way, how these knowledge and tools are transferred to young children of pre-school age. It is a pity that the government did not take the chance in the film political bill, which will soon be on the table for debate by Parliament, Madam President. A film policy is needed that addresses all aspects of the film medium, not to limit the artistic dreams of many people, but to provide all children and young people with tools to critically examine the moving image. It is about the right to protection for every young person. I am pleased to hear that the Minister for Culture and Education is now working together. After all, we have good experience of cooperation between departments from the time of the alliance. If the Minister of Culture wants some tips, she's welcome. There are many old ministers left in this House who can offer good advice. There was a lot in the Minister for Culture's answer about things that can be done, but how should we equip children and young people with media and information literacy? How has the Minister of Culture told the National Media Council to do this? How does the Minister of Culture ensure that the efforts made today are right and that they go to the right things? Is there a guarantee? How does the Minister for Culture ensure this? One tip for the Fridolinska and Bahska working group is to work a little wider than just with Konstfack and also look at teacher trainings and other institutions that can have knowledge of these issues. The Minister for Culture also talked about skills development. What does the skills development line look like?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-742	Madam President, I would like As far as good cooperation between the departments is concerned, if I have understood correctly, there was not so much cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education in the last eight years when the Alliance was in power. But there may be other finer examples to be found in other departments. We believe very much in this cooperation and we believe in the tasks we have given our officials. Just as Cecilia Magnusson says, we need to develop which areas should work on the MIK issues, media and information literacy. It is not only in cinema policy. That is why we do not only have children and young people in focus on media literacy. I hope and believe that Cecilia Magnusson knows that in the proposal for a new film policy we have based on what is covered by the current film agreement. The film culture part has not been in focus since it continues. There are many of the assignments of the Film Institute today, and the focus is on children's and young people's knowledge of moving images. The State Film Institute is not the only actor in this area. Many people work with film guides to teachers and other support for film educational work. For example, Filmcentrum, Folkets Hus and Parker, Våra Gårdar, several cinema directors and the country's many film studios. Within the framework of the cultural cooperation model, the regional work of the country's film resource centre is important for children and young people. We have Creative School where they also work to teach children and young people how to handle and review film and moving image. Curriculum courses and subject plans for primary and secondary schools require students' knowledge of and ability to create moving images. In other words, much is being done. But Cecilia Magnusson asked what exactly we have been doing for a year and a half on the MIK issues. I have a long list, and I am grateful to the honourable Member for asking. We have invested a great deal in increasing the tasks of the National Media Council on these issues precisely because the question is on the table; it is acute and burning. As I said before, we have seen that we are the step behind, not least linked to the violent extremism where we see how to use a very advanced way of moving image to radicalise young people. In the 2016 Budget Bill, we provided funding to the Swedish Media Council to strategically develop the agency's work on media and information literacy. We permanentized the task given by previous governments only in short-term projects. In particular, we have stressed the importance that the knowledge that has been produced and is aimed at teachers and other adults in the vicinity of children should focus on equipping young people to better resist hateful, racist, sexist, violent, propagandist or conspiratory messages online. We have also commissioned the Swedish Media Council to develop a campaign called No Hate Speech Movement. It shall include efforts to safeguard democracy against violent extremism. We have given assignments to the interdepartmental group and to further teacher guidance and development of materials. Not least, we have the development of materials together with Konstfack, which we will also distribute. So we have done a great deal, but most of it remains.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-753	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear the Minister for Culture talking about these issues, but the important thing is that it becomes a workshop. We can throw out many words in this House, but the important thing is that we have a workshop. It is good that we are increasing protection against violent extremism, but children and young people today face a cascade of advertising messages and messages and manipulations of other kinds. It is extremely important that they learn to examine them so that they can become critical citizens. I cannot, therefore, stress enough what the Minister of Culture said about the fact that most of the work remains. It's a shame you didn't take the chance to include these important parts when making a movie political bill. At least for me as moderate are children and young ones to whom I want to devote my strength and political fervor. Film policy is a whole. We had many talks with the Minister for Culture, where we demanded that the film culture efforts be included in the bill. They didn't give a damn about that. But it's good to reconsider. I do not think there are too few players. When I hear the Minister for Culture, it sounds rather like there are too many actors. You should have more lace and power concentrated on the things that are most important. I wish the Minister of Culture good luck in the important work of coordinating with the Minister of Education and other actors on this issue so that there will be a little workshop.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-759	Madam President, I would like Workshop is for me. To ignore things has never been for me – not in previous missions and certainly not as Minister of Culture and Democracy. The handling of moving images and knowledge of moving images are central to our children and young people from many perspectives. Of course, it is about being able to review and resist messages, to be able to identify who the sender is and what it wants and to be able to stand up to competition for jobs across Europe and the world. It is important knowledge that we need to deepen our work with. When it comes to film politics, children and young people have long been in focus and are highly prioritised. It proves a number of amazing activities under the auspices of the Film Institute. The important thing there is how: the way it has developed and how this knowledge is developed in collaboration with other authorities, bodies, organisations and companies. It is not we in politics who should develop how. We will create the conditions and set the goals, because, as Cecilia Magnusson says, it is crucial in the time we live in and how we believe the future will develop. How to develop the film industry, and in the councils now being set up with experts in the film sector. Knowledge about how to work with film, how to review film, how film can stimulate development and help you manage reality should be given by those who really know the question. Thanks for the interpellation!
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-764	Madam President, I would like Saila Quicklund has asked me what I see the benefits of incorporating Jämtland County into the region of Stornorrland and what the real motive for the proposal is. Eva Lohman has asked me what advantages I see in incorporating Västernorrland into the region of Stornorrland. I will respond to them in a joint response. It can be pointed out at the outset that the Division Committee has not yet submitted a proposal for a new division of counties and county councils and that the Government has therefore not taken a position on such a proposal. If the Committee considers that it is possible to implement one or more subdivision changes that can enter into force on 1 January 2019, it will submit an interim report by 30 June 2016. The Committee's work is therefore ongoing, and I do not intend to precede the Committee's work on these or other issues. The issue of the region has been investigated several times, most recently by the Committee of Responsibilities and the Report on State Regional Administration. It is clear from these investigations, among other things, that the current classification of counties and county councils is largely no longer appropriate. The recent report of the Highly Specialised Care Report also proposes fewer health professionals. Several of the county councils are too small to cope with their tasks both in the short and long term. The county administrative boards also have similar problems. The purpose of setting up the Division Committee is to create an appropriate division and efficient organisations that bring lasting benefits, including through better adaptation to demographic, nutrient and environmental conditions. The studies carried out have highlighted the importance of taking these measures before it becomes too difficult for those responsible to deal with different challenges. It is important that Sweden has a well-functioning community organisation that can also provide citizens with a good public service in the longer term.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-775	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Civil Affairs, for your answer. However, the Minister for Civil Affairs does not fully answer my questions, but there is perhaps a lot to clarify during the debate. The Minister of Civil Affairs also points out that the issue of the region has been investigated several times, which is true. Let us also remind ourselves that these investigations have almost ten years on their necks. Sweden is not the same country as it was ten years ago. How can a study prepared ten years ago form the basis for a new regional division? Both Göran Persson and Fredrik Reinfeldt chose to throw these investigations into the trash basket on the grounds that there would be a bottom-up perspective. My question is: why does the Minister of Civil Affairs not share their view on the bottom-up approach? Why is the government forcing large regions? Stunning regions are emerging from below. There are several examples of this: Jämtland, Härjedalen, Gotland, Halland, Jönköping, Örebro and others. Some of these regions were formed as late as 2015 by their own power and with another bearing. In a debate against me in P1 Morgon, the Minister for Civil Affairs has stated that it is Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, SKL, that has been the driving force to get this reform through. On another occasion it was the health care staff who had pushed the regional issue. When did nurses and nurses have the opportunity to express their views on this issue? I would really like the heroes of care to have the opportunity to express their views. Unfortunately, I do not think it has happened, but I am happy to receive material and reports about it, if there are such. The Minister of Civil Affairs also stresses that we must meet the challenges of health care. Yes, healthcare has major challenges, but let us also remind ourselves that we have the world's best healthcare in terms of cost-effectiveness and quality of care. The idea of regionalisation has also passed a prime date. The most costly and complex measures in healthcare are already concentrated in a few hospitals. The largest regions and county councils also need to cooperate across borders. Add a new patient law that increases the patient's power nationally and internationally. A new regional reform is therefore going in the opposite direction. The best care in the country has Jönköping, Halland, Kalmar and Östergötland, and these are not large regions. There is currently no evidence that quality of care, efficiency requirements and patient safety are increasing with large regions. Claims that are quite common from the government on this issue are that it becomes a stronger and more even development force via large regions. The Committee also considered that a region should have about 1 to 2 million inhabitants. If you look at economic development between 2002 and 2012, you will find no correlation whatsoever between regional population and growth rates. I would like the Minister of Civil Affairs to comment on that part.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-786	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer to my interpellation, the Secretary of State! I am now in danger of saying the same things as my colleague, Mrs Quicklund, because we come from neighbouring countries and have intervened on the same subject. I am aware that the Division Committee has not yet provided a response to a new division of counties and county councils. But I expect a proposal to come shortly, and that is why I have written the interpellation. It's a matter of suing the pelvis, as they say. A Great Northern Land has been discussed over the last 20 years. The proposal has not fallen into good soil, not in Norrland. There is no popular anchoring. On the contrary, it is the majority of citizens in Norrbotten and in my home county of Västernorrland who do not want a large region. On the other hand, it is politicians who think it is a good thing to do so. S-branded politicians think it's good, but the Moderates in Västernorrland don't think so. A recent Sifo survey showed that a majority of citizens in the four northernmost counties are against a large region. Such a major reform must have the citizens with it. How else can you get a good democratic foundation? You should have people with you, not against you, if you want to achieve good results. To me, it's an old good truth. We are talking about a region larger than half of Sweden. It represents 54 per cent of Sweden's surface area. There are 880 000 inhabitants, i.e. less than 1 million. There are 44 municipalities, 12 hospitals, 128 health centres and it is about 100 km from north to south. In the region there are four county councils, three of which have a deficit of 1 billion. The fourth county council, Västerbotten, has a very modest surplus of 8 million. But it is therefore incredibly structural changes that need to be made. Does the Government believe that local anchoring is important in terms of reforms as large as a new regional division of the size that we are now talking about, that is, a Greater Northern Land?
i-PkHzsCgjDHprcg8gk2fbQh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lohman and Saila Quicklund, for the posts! For starters, we'll have the right history with us. The Government, Göran Persson, appointed the Responsible Committee but never received the report, but it was left to the first government, Reinfeldt. That government started work on this, but because of political lock-ups it was not possible to get to grips, which also blocked the issue of regional formation in several county councils. That is why the government is now presenting the proposal for the formation of regions in several of our county councils. The latest was Norrbotten County, Västernorrland County, Västmanland County and Uppsala County. There has been pressure there for many years, but because of political stalemate these reforms could not be implemented. The interpellants are concerned with the issue of health care. That question has been discussed for a very long time. There are several government investigations that point to the need for fewer health professionals and the need to have a user base that means that you can work with efficiency improvements. There are enormous challenges in the public sector. There is a very high rate of urbanisation, a demographic development that involves great efforts for the public sector, both from a financial and from an operational perspective, not least if we are to ensure the equality of welfare throughout our country. But there is also another aspect to this, and that is the state division. The regional anchoring of the Swedish state has been considerably weakened following a government reform. Now it is only the county boards that are organised at county level, and it is the county boards that must coordinate the state regionally and ensure that the state speaks with one voice, but that is not possible because the other state authorities do not organise themselves at county level. They all have their own unique regional divisions that do not match each other. It is clear that this creates some coordination difficulties within the state, but also in relations between the state and the local government sector. The government must now address this issue, and then we need to have a regional map corresponding to the regional map of the county councils, in order to facilitate coordination between the different levels. As I said, this process has been going on for many years. There have been at least three four investigations in modern times that have looked at this. It is now important to address this issue, but then the process of change must be conducted in broad dialogue with stakeholders, with county councils, with municipalities, with civil society, with health professionals, with state organisations and with state authorities. That is exactly what is now being done by the negotiators. I'm not going to precede their work. I think it is important that we have a proper debate on this, because it concerns important issues relating to the equivalence of our country. The state has not assumed its responsibilities. There is too large and growing regional divide in our country. Only the concept of Stornorrland testifies to what the Stockholm perspective we have on administrative policy. In fact, the proposal under discussion does not even include the whole of Norrland. But from a Stockholm perspective, it will be a big northern country that is being discussed, and there is nothing wrong with the Stockholm perspective, but Sweden must allow more perspectives if we are to get a development with balanced regions and good economic and social development throughout our country. I look forward to a broad discussion on concrete proposals. It is difficult to discuss this matter without having the proposals on our table. Then we do not know how the county councils concerned will react to future proposals either.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-802	Madam President, I would like My colleague mentioned that it concerns 54% – we also have figures of 58% – of the country's surface area. We have 21 governors who express themselves in the Society of Today, and of them there is only one governor who expresses himself in favour of this region's formation. It is also said that this is an unreasonable proposal. I do not think that we should spend time specifying how and that there should be concrete proposals. It is the process that we are opposed to. We have a county which, on its own initiative, has formed a region, as I mentioned earlier. We have also improved the economy considerably on our own. This has been done through efficiency improvements. The net cost has gone from minus 6% to 0.4% in six months. We have not cut the care floor, but we are talking about other efficiency improvements. The Moderates are now in the majority, and there are several of our proposals that have been effective. Political governance and leadership are by far the most important thing at local level to achieve these results. If this works, a new regional reform is not needed, but the important thing is local governance and management. That is also what the Minister is asking for. So a new regional reform is not needed for this. Furthermore, on behalf of the Moderates, I must stress that it is of great importance that we create reforms and conditions for more jobs and growth instead. That is what also creates incentives and money for health care and long-term care. But here's the difference between our policy and yours. The government invests in a new regional reform and believes in efficiency improvements and better finances for health care instead of investing in jobs and entrepreneurship, which gives welfare more money. This is where we split up. We are also a county that could further develop cooperation with Norway. There are many border villages. The inhabitants of Funäsdalen, for example, have 20 – 25 km to Östersund but 60 km to Røros. These are collaborations that we have looked at and would have to develop further, rather than investing in regional reform. There are many in the county that we are sending today to the southern parts of the country. Approximately 40 per cent go to the southern parts of the country for treatment, and the rest go up to Umeå. The citizens' perspective must not least be in focus – not theoretical arguments about economies of scale, which I understood the discussion was a lot about. How do the changes contribute to better quality, accessibility and service? These are questions to which I would like answers. The conditions are very different in different parts of the country. Any change should be justified by clear arguments in the individual case as to why this major reform should be carried out. Similar regions cannot be a top objective. I have mentioned it in the past but would nevertheless like to take back the question of the democratic perspective and the anchoring of the issue, which I think we lack in the debate. How is popular anchoring ensured? The Minister now points out that there is dialogue in the country and that there is a great, strong support for the reform – which I do not understand at all. We see it in many places. We have the governors. We have protest lists. There is massive pressure on this reform. The Minister is welcome to develop where you have captured the positive.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-812	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commenting on the concept of Stornorrland. Actually it is a smaller area that we are talking about today, because when we talk about Norrland today Gävleborg is included, but it is not in this proposal. But to return to the interpellation: There are many aspects to this. We have the regional presence of the state, which the Division Committee hopes will be strengthened. But I see that there is a risk that it will weaken, because it is such a large region. It is a long way between Karesuando and Sundsvall, which is my hometown, or between Kiruna and Sundsvall. It's 100 miles. It's infrastructure that might not work very well. We should not ignore distances and the importance of distance for the cohesion between localities and people. Geography is a major challenge. The inhabitants of Western Norway do not want a large region. The Sundsvall region has, as an example, an already existing collaboration in the labour market. We have it with Hudiksvall in the south, Härnösand in the north and Ånge in the west. We have joint recruitment. We've made it easier for work commuting. The area comprises approximately 200 000 inhabitants. I believe that it is on the basis of already functioning collaborative models that anchoring should take place, when new regions are to be built. Decisions should be made as close to people as possible – not 100 km away. Does the Government consider that regions of this size are the answer to Sweden's future challenges in terms of labour market, infrastructure and health care?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-818	Madam President, I would like Jobs and growth are the goal of all our policies – jobs and growth across the country – and that requires regionalisation. There are two approaches to public administration. There is a group that has very strong faith in centralization and central power, and an approach based on regionalisation as a driving force for creating even parts in our country and ensuring that all of Sweden has the opportunity to develop. The government joins the latter. We believe in regionalisation. That is also why we have now put forward proposals that mean that we move the responsibility for regional development issues from the state to the regions – precisely to strengthen the regional anchoring of work for jobs and growth throughout the country. But regionalisation requires robust and strong regions that are able to cope with their tasks, which have a sufficient user base. Regionalisation requires balanced regions, so that resources for infrastructure and other investments are not concentrated only in certain parts of the country but spread throughout our country. Unfortunately, however, we do not have the regional structure today. We have a clear asymmetry in the regional division. Västernorrland is a good example. It is a fantastic county and county council with many committed municipal and county politicians working to prioritise jobs and growth across party boundaries. The problem is that Västernorrland County only exists in one state authority as a regional division organisation, and that is the county administrative board. It does not exist in the Employment Service, not in the Social Insurance Agency, not in the police. The County Administrative Board of Västernorrland is the body that we have for coordinating the state in Västernorrland. But how should it be possible for the county administrative board to effectively coordinate and coordinate the state in the long term, ensure the regional anchoring of the state, if its division is not matched by the division that exists in the state authorities to be coordinated? That's where we stand today. It is therefore incredibly important for the state to assume its responsibilities and modernise the state structure and assume that the state must have a strong regional base, if it is to be effective and able to serve the citizens of the whole of our country, if it is to have legitimacy. As far as the forthcoming process is concerned, popular support is important. From what I understand, the negotiators and other interested parties have also met in Jämtland County, met citizens and entrepreneurs, local civil society, had a dialogue and also discussed the alternatives to regional enlargement. It is good that this kind of conversation is being conducted, so that we have a popular basis in the process. The government will, of course, take this aspect into account. But we do not have the right to betray the citizens of our country. Then we must also be prepared to assume our responsibilities in order to contribute to a modern regional structure that meets the needs of today's society. Sweden expanded welfare with the municipalities as a base. As one of the first countries in the Western world, municipal reform was carried out in the early 70s precisely with the aim of creating municipalities that managed to take care of welfare. It turned out to be a good model. Localised, decentralised welfare has served us well. It is important that we also give the regional level the right conditions so that we do not end up regionalising and decentralising welfare tasks but, on the contrary, continue to regionalise our country.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-828	Madam President, I would like The Minister points out that we do not want to let the citizens down. But that's exactly the feeling citizens have out there. They are completely in the absence of dialogue. That is their view. In addition, the regional question shone entirely with its absence during the 2014 elections. It should be a democratic requirement that political parties should also be able to present their positions on the matter during the 2018 elections. Why won't the minister? Such a radical reform with such a great impact on how Sweden is governed and how Swedish democracy works is largely a constitutional issue. In Sweden, we also have a good tradition of a broad consensus across block borders as we change the rules of policy. It is important to consider. In the magazine Dagens Samhälle, we could read an article describing that five out of six regions would have a red-green majority rule if you look back at the 2014 elections. There are many with me who interpret it as perhaps the main reason why the government is now forcing reform at this speed. In my home county, Jämtland County, the tourism industry has called for an in-depth analysis and impact assessment. Industry has questioned the reform. Several thousand people have signed the Facebook group We who want to keep Region Jämtland Härjedalen. Add also frequent letters of submission. If the regional division is to change, it must be based on the benefit of citizens and the strong support of those involved, the people of the country. That is not the case today. That is totally unacceptable.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-834	Madam President and the Government. I would like to conclude by saying that I am aware that there are advantages and disadvantages to everything. As far as the enlargement of the region is concerned, we moderates think that it is only a disadvantage. We are convinced that a Great Northern Land is too big. It is too difficult to handle, above all, geographically. How are we going to get Kalle in Karesuando to get involved in something and help with something that happens, for example, in Stöde in Västernorrland? I can't. It doesn't work that way. Above all, I believe that such a major change must come from below. I, and many with me, believe that the Individual Committee has had a top-down approach that has not been discussed with the citizens. It's important. Such a great change must come from below. There must be a local anchorage. Ma n must have people with you and not against you when you do that. It's a very big change for us up in Norrland.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-837	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for a good discussion. We intend to continue that discussion. Let me remind Members of Parliament that the government has not even received a proposal for a new map. We may have such a proposal on 30 June. The Government is not involved in the boundaries discussed between the county councils concerned and the negotiators. We will only take a position on this issue when we receive a report from the Division Committee. It is also important to have popular anchoring and a bottom-up perspective. In fact, we chose to start the process when we were courted by the Swedish Municipalities and County Council who asked us to start the process. The whole process is based on a dialogue between the negotiators and the county councils concerned. There are different views on this. It's obvious. There are Moderates who are very much in favour of regional reform and who are fighting for this reform to be pushed through. There are Social Democrats who are very critical. We have different solutions to the challenges we have identified in the public sector. But let us not fool ourselves or the citizens and say that structural reforms are not necessary. Tax increases are not the solution to the challenges we face in healthcare. There will be a need for efficiency improvements and structural changes. That is an obligation we have towards taxpayers. The structure we have today in Sweden is not effective enough, based on the challenges ahead. Medical care has enormous challenges. We see only the beginning of the challenges posed by demographic change. That said, it does not mean that everything becomes gold and green forests with regional reform. More reforms will be needed. We will need to reduce the administrative burden for municipalities and county councils and dare to show a greater degree of trust in municipalities and county councils. These processes are under way in the context of the reform of trust. I look forward to a continued dialogue on this.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-843	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me if I intend to work for the government to make proposals to relocate government jobs from Stockholm County to other parts of the country and what measures I intend to take to ensure that more government jobs are located in Västerbotten County. The government states in the 2016 budget bill that it is important that the location of the state authorities can be more widely distributed across the country (prop. 2015/ 16:1 utg.r. 2 section 4.4). As can be seen from the debate article that the Prime Minister and I published in Dagens Nyheter on 3 March 2016, there are a number of ways to ensure and increase the spread of government agencies and government jobs. For example, it may be to develop the government's governance of the authorities' own decisions with a bearing on the location or to carry out certain public authority functions coordinated in the state but outside the metropolitan areas. The starting point is also that new authorities should not be located in Stockholm unless there are specific reasons for doing so. An additional means is the relocation of public authorities. I intend to continue to work to ensure that the state authorities can spread more widely across the country. Here, Statskontoret's report on the location of government agencies ( Statskontoret 2016:8) will form an important basis on how localisation issues can be developed in the governance of the agencies. In the Government's continued work, relocation of state operations from Stockholm County to other counties may also be considered. The conditions differ on a case-by-case basis, in particular with regard to which locations may be considered for moving an activity to. Relocating an authority is an interventional decision that affects both the business and the employees. Therefore, the work should be carried out with the utmost care and seriosity. I cannot comment on individual counties at this time.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-848	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. At the beginning of the year, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi declared that government jobs would be relocated from the country's major cities to smaller towns out in our country. The Minister said he was concerned about the ongoing centralisation process that he saw. Other representatives, including the Prime Minister, have also expressed the same ambitions for this. It's good so far. Madam President, I would like I would like to congratulate the Minister for a lot of good local media attention in Västerbotten, my home country, about precisely the relocation of government jobs. The media picture was so good that I was completely convinced that the government had actually relocated a lot of jobs to Västerbotten. I thought: Finally, the government has done something good! It has to be celebrated one way or another. But I have been looking for how many jobs the government has relocated to Västerbotten, and I have so far found zero. That is not to say that I am right – the government may have relocated some job that I have simply missed. This may be the case, and the Minister will be happy to address it in his reply. Madam President, I would like I really only have two questions for the Minister; I am not going to extend the evening far too much for any of you. How many government jobs has the Minister so far relocated to Västerbotten? That's my first question.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-854	Madam President, I would like We have ten years of an active wave of centralisation behind us. Government agencies have centralised their operations to the larger locations, to Stockholm. The previous government said only in March 2014 that the development of local government services was essentially positive. I do not share that view. This government does not share that view. The centralisation wave must stop. It has come to an end, and this government has initiated important processes. Firstly, we have sent out signals about the closure of government agencies in smaller towns. The clearest example: The Swedish Tax Agency's plans to close nine offices in smaller towns in Sweden were not something that served the Swedish state. The government therefore sent out clear signals, and the Tax Agency put an end to the plans. I was very pleased, Madam President, when I visited the Tax Agency staff in Lycksele. They make amazing efforts every day in the service of the state. Those jobs should remain, because the government benefits from the spread of jobs. Secondly, Madam President, this government has commissioned the State Service Centre to identify which government functions can be coordinated and streamlined by relocation from Stockholm to other locations. Last week the del report came. The central government service centre has identified that, among other things, IT services can be coordinated, modernised, streamlined and at the same time relocated from Stockholm. We are turning the logic around, Madam President. We do not need to gather the state's activities in Stockholm in order for it to be effective. On the contrary, we can move businesses from Stockholm to smaller locations in other parts of the country and thus streamline and develop the state. It is also necessary to strengthen the legitimacy of the state. We have received an investigation that we ordered from Statskontoret, which has looked at how the state location looks like. Which authorities exist in different parts of our country? What is the distribution between the different counties? And how can we come up with guiding principles, guiding principles, so that we can get things in order with regard to localisation decisions in the state? That work is intensifying now. In addition, we have announced that this year we will relocate entire authorities from Stockholm to other parts of the country. These decisions will come during this year. We are serious about this, Madam President, because it is not just about spreading jobs. It is not just a question of contributing to good regional development in different parts of our country. It is about strengthening and preserving the legitimacy of the Swedish state. If they had left places like Lycksele, they would have concentrated even more on Stockholm, they would have continued the policy of eight years when the wave of centralisation was allowed to continue in the Swedish state, then they would have weakened the state. And weakening the state weakens trust in our society, not only between citizens and states, but also between citizens. So we will make decisions. Those decisions will not be popular everywhere. It will be said at the outset that we are doing things that reduce efficiency. But I am convinced that we will be able to reverse the logic. I am convinced that we will show that the measures taken by the State Service Centre are now making the state more effective and strengthening the legitimacy of the state. There will be a great need for decisions to be worked out, well thought out and well prepared in dialogue with all parties. That is why I will not be able to present the decisions today. But the work is continuing.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-865	Madam President, I would like The Minister talks a lot but still manages not to answer the two questions I asked him. I will repeat them at the end, just in case, so that the Minister does not forget them by mistake next time. The Minister is talking about the end of centralization. Then I ask: How many government jobs have ended up in Västerbotten during the minister's time in the government? He's talking about important processes going on. I ask again: how many government jobs have come to Västerbotten in this? When it comes to the state inquiry into the local tax offices, it is great that they were not closed down. I think we are in full agreement on this. When it comes to Lycksele, there is another exciting way that social democrats have used over the years. Lycksele Lasaret is located in Lycksele, and the Social Democrats in Västerbotten County Council have used a little in the same way. They have the local government and come up with a threat of closure of the hospital, where you have to fight for a while. That's how you keep it, and then it's total euphoria. About the same thing happened when the minister was in Lycksele. You got to keep the government jobs you've had in eight years of alliance government, but now it was amazing, because now the government had said they could stay. Threats are created and threats are removed, but how many new government jobs have ended up in Västerbotten during the minister's time in power? I think it is good if the Minister has good ambitions and wants to relocate jobs to Västerbotten. I'm the first one to welcome. But again: How many government jobs have come to Västerbotten, and how many government jobs does the Minister intend to relocate to Västerbotten during this term of office?
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-870	Madam President, I would like I think I was very clear that I will not give any information on which authorities are being moved during this term of office until we have carried out a solid investigation work. That's exactly what we're working on right now. The relocation of public authorities must be well thought out. We will identify which authorities are in a position to relocate and which places are in a position to receive these authorities. But the important thing is that we have reversed the trend. The important thing is that the centralisation wave that was allowed to continue is no longer continuing. The process aimed at closing down Lycksele was launched during the time of the previous government. We put an end to this. We put an end to this, and I am proud of it. I am proud to be part of the government that said no to that kind of centralisation, because the people of Lycksele are doing a fantastic job. They have nothing to be ashamed of. The Swedish state needs them, and they do not need to sit in Umeå or Stockholm to do an effective job. They have shown that they can sit in Lycksele and do an amazing job. If we're going to reverse the trend, if we're really going to make a change, it's going to take us to be self-critical. I believe that Edward Riedl has taken note of the moderate self-criticism here in Parliament about how the wave of centralisation was allowed, how administrative policy was supported by the centralisation of the authorities and was satisfied with the centralisation. To try to muzzle the government's ambit down and paint what happened in the eight bourgeois years, which were disastrous for the legitimacy of the state, is not a way forward. Instead, let us conduct a self-critical discussion and step-by-step decision that strengthens the presence of the state. Let us also combine the work with efficiency improvements in the state and the work of relocating activities. The investigation we received last week is a good start. It's a very good start. The central government service centre has done a solid job and has identified which public authority functions are currently spread across different agencies where the jobs are currently located in Stockholm and how these jobs could be coordinated and relocated to other locations. We need to look at how we can have guiding principles in other location decisions. There's the data from Statskontoret. Let's move on with that base. Then, as I said, there are relocations of entire authorities, and we will deal with that in this year. I believe that, when this term of office is over, we will be able to see that we managed to reverse this trend. It will be good for Sweden as a country, and it will be good for cohesion. However, if we are to achieve good results, we must also carry out the work on the basis of facts and in dialogue with the parties concerned, and then we cannot make ill-considered relocations. It doesn't do any good.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-879	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that I have full respect for the fact that the Minister cannot always tell us what is going on here and now. I have full respect for the fact that this has always been the case and that it will probably always be the case. However, the Minister says that the trend has been reversed, and I ask the Minister: how many new government jobs have been relocated to Västerbotten? I may be very unclear when I ask the question because the Minister has chosen not to answer it. Can the Minister tell us how many government jobs have so far been relocated to Västerbotten? I have full respect for the fact that the Minister does not want to see the future, but he can at least tell us in this House what he has achieved so far? Madam President, I would like I've been looking for information on this. I have followed the local media at home, and I was absolutely convinced that a lot of jobs had ended up in my home county of Västerbotten in the light of how the government described this, but I did not find a single job. Then I must be able to put the question to the Minister in this House: how many government jobs have been relocated to Västerbotten so far? In the absence of an answer, I must assume that I am unclear in my question and in some way try to improve the way I put questions to the Minister so that he feels that he can answer. Otherwise, I would like to thank the Minister for a pleasant debate and wish the Minister, Madam President and her colleagues in the House a continued pleasant evening.
i-51c58c5a3b0816f5-884	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank Edward Riedl for raising this important issue in Parliament. I am pleased when I hear moderate MPs work for the relocation of government jobs. It is not too late, but it is good that self-criticism has also led to policy changes. I'm glad to hear that. I've been very clear that we've been working on these questions from day one. We will come back with details of which authorities are being relocated and whether Västerbotten County is also covered by these relocations. We will have a solid basis with statistics at county level based on the report we received from Statskontoret, which means that we will see what developments have been made regarding the location of the state jobs also in Västerbotten County. This means that we can also monitor the effects of the government's work. We shouldn't be afraid of that. It is only good if we are in a position to make a proper follow-up to localisation policy. This will not be an easy journey. It is about changing a culture, but we are determined to make changes during this term of office. It was good that this trend break began with the Swedish Tax Agency's announcement that the office in Lycksele remains after the government signals. It is a good decision for Västerbotten, for Lycksele and for Sweden.
