i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Jabar Amin has asked me what I and the Swedish Government intend to do to condemn Turkey's invasion of the Syrian city of Jarablus and the Turkish regime's recurrent military attack on Rojava and to prevent further Turkish military attacks on Rojava and other border areas together with other countries. Turkey is a key player in the region and, like Sweden, participates in the global coalition that has been formed to combat Daish and promote long-term stability in Iraq and Syria. Turkey, together with other actors, has taken back the city of Jarablus in Syria from Daish. Turkey's role in the fight against Daish is important but must not lead to conflict with other groupings. I am therefore also concerned about developments in which Turkey's relations with Kurdish groups are in danger of deteriorating. It is important not to lose focus on the fight against Daish and the overall objective, namely a political solution and transition in line with Security Council Resolution 2254. Sweden is pushing bilaterally and within the EU for a ceasefire with the PKK and for a peace process with the Kurds to come about. This could have positive consequences even across the border with Syria and for the region as a whole. Within the EU there is strong support for continuing close dialogue with a balanced approach towards Turkey. High Representative Mogherini has stressed that dialogue with Turkey is particularly important in relation to the Kurdish issue and the conflict in Syria. The EU-Turkey High Level Dialogue on 9 September discussed the situation in Syria. The EU and Turkey agree that Syria's future should be based, inter alia, on territorial integrity, national unity and an inclusive society with the protection of all minorities in a non-sectarian state. Discussions on how the EU and Turkey can work together to contribute to a solution to the conflict in Syria will continue.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-4	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by welcoming Foreign Minister Wallström here to this interpellation debate. Today we are discussing the Turkish Government's war policy. We will discuss the aggression against Kurds and the invasion of Jarablus in northern Syria. By now, most people know the track record of Erdo中an, his politics and government. I was going to give a brief account, a sample of the acts committed by the Turkish Government over the past year. They have threatened, arrested, prosecuted and imprisoned independent journalists. Today, according to the International Freedom of the Press Organisation, there are over 150 journalists in prison. They have stormed media editorials, imposed restrictions on them or closed them completely. They have threatened many academics with charges and banned them from leaving the country. They have staged a wave of arrests across Turkey, with trials against dissidents. Today, according to Turkey itself, there are over 32 000 arrested. They have fired over 100,000 people — over 100,000! They have waged a regular war against the civilian population in many Kurdish cities and have allowed their security forces to shoot up entire districts with artillery and tanks. They have been guilty of collective punishment of civilians, subjected the multinational party HDP to over 400 abuses and deposed 28 elected mayors in the country, including 24 Kurds. They have supported the IS terrorists and supported them with weapons and supplies according to several reports. They have hailed Hitler's rule and described it as an example of a successful government. They've blocked WikiLeaks. They have allowed their military to carry out hundreds of bombing raids on villages in Iraqi Kurdistan, exposed the Syrian part of Kurdistan – Rojava – to attack, blockade and isolation and invaded part of another country, in this case Syria. This, and much more, is on the record of Mr Erdo and his regime, Madam President. But despite this insanity, this insane war policy, I do not find so much condemnation in the interpellation response that I have received. The only thing I see that can be like criticism, softly, is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that she sees development in Turkey with concern. I believe that our foreign policy should be sharper than that. It should not be so toothless, but we need to mark against a regime and a state that is guilty of such gross violations of both international law and several UN conventions. I hope that I can get a clearer and sharper answer from the Foreign Minister.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Jabar Amin, for raising this question! Turkey is a key player in the region, it is an important partner for the EU, and what is happening in Turkey also engages many here in Sweden. We have many people from Turkey who live in Sweden. Developments in Turkey have been very worrying for a number of years, which has also been reinforced following the summer coup attempt. The government has clearly condemned the attempted coup in the EU context. We understand that Turkey's democratic institutions are going through a very difficult period after this attempted coup. At the same time, it is important that the country returns to a normal state as soon as possible. We are, of course, very concerned about the negative direction that the country has taken with regard to the rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms. This applies in particular to freedom of expression and freedom of the press. We have expressed this in many different ways and in many different contexts. I myself have been involved in discussions on this very subject, and our support goes very much to those who defend freedom of expression and of the press in Turkey. We also support anti-terrorism cooperation between the EU and Turkey, with a view to countering radicalisation and terrorism. We welcome the fact that there is Turkish participation in the international coalition against Daish, because Turkey has the right to take limited and proportionate measures to counter any attacks by Daish against targets in Turkey. At the same time, Turkey's role in the fight against Daish must not lead to conflict with other groups in Syria. Once again, we have been clear in our condemnation of the coup. It can be seen that many of the strong feelings in Turkey are that Turkey does not think that Europe and a number of countries responded with sufficient determination and sensitivity to the situation after the coup attempt. But we also express support for the democratic institutions in Turkey and for the Turkish people. Turkey now has a major job ahead of it to clarify what happened during this coup attempt and also to find out exactly who was behind it. However, persons detained must be treated in accordance with laws and rules, and the right to a fair trial must be respected. Nothing else is conceivable. Democratic order must be maintained, and the principles of the rule of law and human rights must be respected. We see that the development of violence in Turkey affects innocent civilians, and the situation in south-east Turkey is also deeply worrying. We condemn the use of violence involving civilians and believe that international humanitarian law must be respected. Now both Turkish forces and the PKK must lay down their weapons to pave the way for a peace process. It is essential for Turkey to continue in a democratic direction. It is also central to the stabilisation of the region. We are still hoping for a renewed peace process between the Kurds and Turkey, but also for joint efforts for peaceful development in Turkey.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-24	Madam President, I would like This debate is about Turkey's invasion of parts of northern Syria. It is about the attacks on Kurdish cities in Rojava in the northern part of Syria, that is, the Syrian part of Kurdistan, and not so much about the coup attempt. Most of the crimes committed by Erdo中an and his regime were committed before the attempted coup. They have been pursuing a war policy for a long time. They've been supporting Isis for a long time. The situation today is that one state has entered and invaded part of another state. Thus, one state attacks military cities in another state. Sweden has been elected to the Security Council, and Sweden has held a position in which war policy has been condemned in many countries. Therefore, I wonder whether Sweden sees this as normal. In the answer it says, " Turkey, together with other actors, has taken back the city of Jarablus in Syria from Daish." But they have invaded a part of another country. Certainly Isis has been there, but Isis would be thrown out shortly because the Kurdish rebels were about to free the city. The whole purpose of this invasion was to prevent Kurdish cities and that Jarablus and areas there should be taken, so that Turkey would continue to have the opportunity to send supplies, weapons and so on to Isis. My questions remain: does Sweden, which has been elected to the Security Council, think that it is okay for a country to violate the UN Charter of Territorial Sovereignty or not? Does Sweden think it is okay to attack and fire cities in another state with artillery? And does the Foreign Minister intend to act in any way, within the EU or within the UN, to ensure that such military attacks on Rojava do not continue? Because it is extremely important. I would also like to know whether Sweden and the Foreign Minister condemn these violations of international law and of several international conventions.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-28	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is important to use this opportunity to say something about the work that Sweden is doing in Syria to improve the conditions for peace. We see that every day civilians are killed indiscriminately. And the parties, not least the Syrian regime, have put in a system to withhold humanitarian aid. There has been a very serious escalation of violence in Syria on the part of Russia and the regime. It has been an attack on a humanitarian convoy outside Aleppo and indiscriminate bombing of civilian areas. It is terrible that in 2016 we will have to witness such a ruthless conflict, where respect for human life is totally lacking. Many assessors are similar to the recent Aleppo bombings with the terrible bombings of Dresden at the end of World War II. I believe that history will judge all those responsible very harshly. It is very difficult to see how the peace process can take shape. But we must continue to work for a peace process. What we must then do is strive for and create the conditions for a peaceful political solution and a transition, that is to say a change and transition in line with Security Council Resolution 2254. Sweden works both through the EU and through the UN for a political solution to the conflict, for a ceasefire and full humanitarian access. We support the efforts of UN envoy Staffan de Mistura, and we also support the Security Council resolutions that have been adopted and the agreements that have been concluded with a view to creating the conditions for political peace and a political solution. We have also contributed, for example, to strengthening the voices and participation of women and civil society actors in the currently paused UN-led peace talks in Geneva. Since 2011, to alleviate suffering and distress in Syria, we have contributed SEK 2.2 billion in humanitarian aid. At the London Donors' Conference, we made another humanitarian pledge of SEK 350 million. Now we are complementing with a new five-year aid strategy for the Syria crisis of SEK 1.7 billion, and we have contributed to the EU fund. Our contribution is aimed at alleviating suffering and distress and improving the lives of people in Syria and refugees from Syria. The war must end, and there are no excuses for what is war crimes or human rights abuses and no excuses for destroying hospitals and shelters. There is also no defence for the use of chemical weapons or biological weapons. Those who suffer most are the civilians who are now trapped in Aleppo and elsewhere. Of course, we must do everything we can to take advantage of the good forces, whether in Sweden or in Turkey, and stand up for human rights and peace. We must also continue to engage with Turkey and ensure that it can play a constructive role in war against IS. We must ensure that we can influence Turkey in a democratic direction after having been the victim of a coup. I believe that we must continue this dialogue in as sensible a way as possible. We have to work on all these tracks at the same time.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-35	Madam President, I would like I share the view of the Foreign Minister regarding support for the peace process in Syria, and I share the view that the aid we provide and all the work that the Swedish Government is doing on the refugees in Syria and the peace process are important. However, that was not the answer to my questions. I asked a couple of questions because the Turkish Government is violating international law and the UN Charter. It enters another country, and it shoots at cities in another country. I want to know whether there is judgment or not. The Foreign Minister has spoken two times, and I had hoped for clarification on this issue. I have not received it so far, but I hope I can get some clarification. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs condemn the violations of international law and the UN conventions that Turkey commits by shooting at cities in another country and invading parts of another state? It is extremely important to know this, because we are a country with a government that has declared that respect for international law is important. Here a country and its government are disregarding international law, and so I ask for the last time: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs condemn the actions of the Turkish Government or not?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-38	Madam President, I would like Of course, we condemn the alleged violations of international law. We believe that the existing conventions, laws and rules, as well as international humanitarian law, must be complied with. Then, of course, there is an extremely chaotic situation in Syria, also with the efforts being made by a number of countries right now, where it is sometimes difficult to see who has done what and with what motives. Here, of course, the fight against IS has sometimes also had to hide the fact that they have had completely different purposes for their efforts. Above all, it is about what we are doing now. How do we engage with Turkey? How do we signal clearly what development we want to see? How do we contribute in the UN context and in the EU context to ensure that we get a solution to the conflict in Syria? Nor should Turkey, in its shadow, be allowed to attack the Kurds as a group. In the shadow of the fight against IS, we should not be allowed to break or prevent the resumption of the peace process that we hoped for a great deal. It is our main interest now: we will make sure that we get involved in such a way as to make it possible. We believe that we do it best in dialogue with Turkey and in a constructive way. It is frustrating for a great many, because after a number of years of moving in the right direction and we saw reform efforts in Turkey, we have seen a decline that is very serious. In particular, it represents a decline in the protection of human rights, democracy and press and freedom of expression. That is what we are working on at the moment – to ensure that we can strengthen those who operate in Turkey and assert these values in the political dialogue with Turkey.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-41	Madam President, I would like Christian Barenfeld has asked me what my position and that of the government is on the issue of sanctions against Belarus and how we work to influence, push and lead this issue. The government continues to view the situation of democracy and human rights in Belarus with concern. According to Odihr's preliminary report from the parliamentary elections of 11 September, it is clear that Belarus has a long way to go to fulfil its democratic commitments. Given the above-mentioned shortcomings, Sweden is in favour of an EU policy linked to Belarusian action. Sweden has also pursued a line in the EU on sanctions against the country as long as Belarus does not meet EU requirements. On this issue, agreement among Member States on the policy to be pursued is crucial. The conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council of 15 February 2016 highlighted several steps taken by Belarus over the last two years to improve relations with the EU, including the release of political prisoners. Most of the sanctions were terminated as an incentive for Belarus to continue the positive developments. The sanctions were linked to concrete requirements which, if met, give Belarus further opportunities to develop relations with the EU. At the same time, the EU can reintroduce sanctions if developments so require and if we can reach agreement on it. Prior to the parliamentary elections in Belarus in 2016, Odihr reported on measures taken in response to their recommendations following the Presidential elections in 2015, such as the accreditation of independent journalists and the registration of an increasing number of opposition candidates. Two opposition candidates then took their place in Parliament. Compliance with the Odihr recommendations is one of the requirements of the conclusions. Much remains to be done to ensure that Belarus is considered a democracy that respects human rights. The death penalty is still in place, and at least one sentence has been executed during the year. Observers reported about electoral fraud in the parliamentary elections, and most of the Odihr recommendations were therefore not taken into account. The EU Member States are continuing a dialogue on foreign and security policy towards Belarus, and here Sweden's bilateral contacts with the country are important. Sweden remains an active and critical voice in this discussion. A strong EU policy requires continuity and unity within the EU.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-46	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his answer to my interpellation. Unfortunately, we have had occasion to discuss this issue earlier, including after the presidential elections held on 11 October last year. That election, too, was surrounded by widespread electoral fraud and repression by oppositionists, just as it has been for the last nearly 22 years since Lukasjenko became President. I myself was not in place this year, but otherwise I have been in all elections in Belarus since 2008, partly as an observer but also in previous elections for other reasons. It is only to be noted that Belarus continues to consolidate its role as what is known as the last dictatorship of Europe. After last year's elections, sanctions were eased, and I was a little critical of the time when they were being discussed. In fact, EU leaders met on the day of the elections, or especially when the press conference was held the day after the elections, and decided to ease sanctions – while it was clear that the elections were at least as corrupt as the previous ones. In fact, no sanctions remain in relation to the elections against Belarus, but in relation to the disappearance of a number of people 16 or 17 years ago. All sanctions linked to elections, based on the country's release of political prisoners, a better media climate and reform of the electoral law, are gone. It also released the political prisoners; unfortunately, it is not an improved situation with regard to the media, and there is definitely no improvement in the electoral law. It is therefore a good thing that it says that compliance with Odhir's recommendations is a requirement for the European Union, and I hope that this has a real meaning in view of the fact that the elections of 11 September 2016 did not in any way comply with Mr Odhir's recommendations. It was a corrupt choice. It was pervasive and in many situations even worse than previous elections. There have been extremely few oppositionists in the local electoral commissions, but from an extremely low number they have managed to bring in even fewer from different sides. So it's just the regime. Two opponents came into Parliament; that is a positive thing. On the other hand, it may not do much for democracy. Parliament does not really have any power in the country, but the President decides most of it, and the role of these oppositionists as 2 out of 110 is unlikely to change the democratic situation. On the other hand, it will be possible for us democratic parliamentarians to have democratic contacts with parliamentarians, and it will be a platform for a couple of people. It is good that Sweden remains a critical voice in the discussion about the EU, but what is Sweden's voice? It would be fun to find out what Sweden is doing more concretely, because Sweden was in any case the driving force in putting the EU agenda, and we were heard and seen on the issue. I have tried to google, and I have looked at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' website as well as on the government's website, but I have not found any comments. It may be that I have missed something, and so it would be good to know what is the line of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government. What do you do in concrete terms? Has Sweden's voice on these important issues of democracy and human rights been silenced?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-55	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! No, Christian Holm Barenfeld, the voice has not stopped, but one can say that the issue is more rarely raised at the meetings of foreign ministers. Much remains to be done to ensure that Belarus is considered a democracy that respects human rights, and we feel the same here. What we mean is that the way forward must be about a united EU act that is linked to Belarusian action. That is the basic principle. At the same time, it seems necessary to explain the policies for which we are pursuing and supported in the European Union and which we believe may eventually be successful. We have heard that the demands that the EU has previously linked to the sanctions, in addition to the release of political prisoners, will remain part of the EU's policy in the future. The signal is, of course, that a closer relationship between the EU and Belarus is possible and desirable, but that there will be a step-by-step development that must be conditional and that the EU should continuously evaluate this development in Belarus. This means that this must come back so that we have the chance to look at and assess whether there is any progress to register and how we can be pushed in the right direction. So I do not think that our vote has weakened. Sweden ensured that the EU Council conclusions were as robust as possible in demanding improvements in human rights and democracy. We will continue to be an active and critical voice in the formulation of new requirements and how to evaluate them, and we also need to focus on our bilateral contacts with Belarus. A supplementary question is whether any improvements in democracy and human rights in Belarus can be seen at all. The Council conclusions of foreign ministers highlighted some steps taken by Belarus over the last two years to improve relations with the EU. This led to the closure of most of the sanctions as an incentive to continue development. It was hard to argue that they would remain. It was clearly the majority of the Member States who thought that they should be closed, especially in the light of the release of the political prisoners. Now, as we have heard, more opposition candidates were registered before the parliamentary elections and independent journalists were accredited. As Christian Barenfeld mentioned, two independent candidates from the regime took place in Parliament. These points correspond to some of Mr Odhir's recommendations and were also part of the requirements of the Council conclusions. On the whole, however, the situation remains very worrying. So, perhaps we should say, Mr Odhir is the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, and most of their recommendations were not taken into account. The death penalty is still there, for example, so Belarus has a long way to go before it can be seen as a democracy that respects human rights.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-62	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the clarifications. If I understood correctly, this item on the agenda is a little less frequent at the EU Foreign Minister's meetings, and I find that unfortunate. It is important to have a common EU act, because it is much more effective if we can get a Europe with more than half a billion inhabitants to put their foot down than if Sweden does so alone. On the other hand, it is good if Sweden individually sets its foot down to get the EU to take clear steps. It is also important that we have an active and critical voice, but in some situations it is also good that it is rather loud and heard also outwardly, because it is an important support, not least for our friends in Belarus who actually like democracy, human rights and freedom. There were therefore more candidates, but at the same time many of the most prominent candidates are not allowed to run either in presidential or parliamentary elections because they are classified as criminals, and that is a good way to escape opposition. We also had more accredited journalists. That's good, too. The problem is that they write so that we can read, but given the total dominance of the state media, where there are no negative images of the dictator and not much about the opposition at all, the Belarusian people have no opportunity to take part in any form of reasonable media reporting. Then it is difficult to point to progress. I still find it unfortunate that all sanctions were removed, given the reason for the sanctions and that there were a number of criteria for what was to be met, although I know that Sweden wanted the sanctions to remain. Belarus meets one of these criteria and all sanctions are removed from the EU. I have read the reports of both the OSCE and Odhir. Of course, as in the presidential elections, it is written that there were more observers who could get there, but it is actually the case that progress consists in more people being able to come and see when the people of Belarus are being robbed of the right to vote and to elect their political leaders. So what was the concrete progress in this election, with the exception of the fact that there are now two opposition parliamentarians? It is almost difficult to understand that they have not done this before to appease the outside world. However, if you look at what it does for human rights and for the freedom and democracy of the Belarusian people, it is basically zero. So we can see that, basically, nothing has changed. Based on the situation in Ukraine, an increasingly aggressive Russia and an increasingly unpredictable Putin, I can see that there are reasonable reasons to be tactical in certain situations, based on the geopolitical situation. But I find it hard to see any progress made in this election. I therefore hope that we will see the Foreign Minister – and preferably the Prime Minister and other ministers – in the debate, in the media and in the European Union loudly, critically and clearly putting the agenda on this issue. It would be good if Sweden continued to drive and put the agenda in the EU so that we can bring the rest of us with us. It would be interesting to know what the government is doing in this regard.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-70	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! When Christian Holm Barenfeld and I discuss these issues, it usually becomes a déjà-vu feeling. We often repeat that, first of all, we have a great, if not a total, consensus on these issues, and in the evaluation of situations we also tend to feel the same as regards what needs to be done. Perhaps we both also wish that Sweden on its own had the opportunity to dictate Belarus' choices. One might also wonder what the EU's decision would have been like if Sweden had been left alone to decide. After all, as you heard, we belonged to those Member States that wished the current arms embargo sanction regime – but otherwise ended sanctions against all previously listed persons, except for four who are responsible for four cases of disappearances – would be extended unchanged and all sanctions against 170 people would remain, combined with an arms embargo. That is what we advocated. But it was quite clear that it was not possible to reach agreement on this, and then we would have stood without a coherent EU policy for Belarus. It was too high a price to pay. We believe that it must be a strong and united European policy that is the basis of our policy towards Belarus, in order for us to be able to influence the situation in that country. Sanctions are one of several tools that we can use, and we must choose very carefully what the overall policy should look like. But we believe that we should set conditions and continue to have tough demands on changes. I also believe that there will soon be an opportunity to discuss this issue again when it is on the FAC agenda. There is an assessment and hope on which we live, that closer relations with the EU are still possible and that we should take advantage of the opportunity to establish it. At the same time, we see that it is a process that is slow and gradual, and the pace depends on Belarus. We carry out ongoing evaluations and will continue to be a driving force in this work. Christian can trust that.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-75	Madam President, I would like Yes, a little déjà vu in the discussions can be because it often becomes the same argument. I am convinced that none of us like the dictatorship in Belarus. We want freedom and human rights. Then we may at some point have different views on exactly how to do it, but I do not think there is much difference there either. I hope that the government will continue to push forward here and that we can read and see more about this, because it is important to be able to take part in it. It is important that we are committed at European level. The former alliance government was, of course, widely praised today by the then Vice-President of the European Commission, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for being the most committed and active government at European level. One of the reasons why Sweden had such a great influence was that we did not dictate, because we cannot and do not want to do so because we believe in democracy. Nevertheless, we were involved in setting the agenda through a very active and diligent work which, in that situation, largely took place with the then Polish Government. It played a role in reality, and that was actually what led to the sanctions being imposed once. Now it's changed. It is difficult to get a united Europe. But if the government works hard, is extremely committed to the issues and has a high tone with well-founded arguments – and it's not very difficult to find in these issues – I think it's possible for Sweden to set the agenda, steer and ensure that we get a somewhat tougher line towards Belarus as well. This also applies to other countries that tend to want to act in a way that violates democracy, human rights and the ability to hold free and democratic elections. Thank you very much for this debate.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-80	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christian, for this debate. I am pleased that we have been ranked as, next to Germany, the country with the most voice and influence in the European context, and we retain our strong and active role in the European Union. That is a huge frustration with regard to Belarus. I think you are right that it is important that we act in such a way that we give support to the oppositionists, those who are pushing in the country. It is important to be visible and clear there. We have the same basis for our actions. We believe that these principles must apply. Sanctions are part of a policy that must also deal with how to develop contacts. But we must have both firmness and a vision for the future, and we will continue along that path. I think it is important that we carry out an ongoing evaluation in the European Union, among the Member States, of what has really happened, what justifies either continuing or resuming sanctions or what tools are the most effective. I will, of course, be active there. I also welcome our discussions in this House in the future.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-85	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me what I intend to do to limit the number of children's marriages in Sweden. Alexandra Anstrell has also asked me what I intend to do to ensure that children in Sweden are helped to get out of marriage that has been entered into against their will. I fully agree with the interpeller that these are important and serious issues. It is my firm belief that child marriage infringes the rights of the child under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Child marriage is a way of controlling girls and women, not least their sexuality. When a girl is married away, she is deprived of her independence and risks being treated like a man's property. Sweden cannot ban child marriage in other countries, but we can work to ensure that other countries prohibit child marriage. For those girls who are in Sweden, we will ensure that they receive the protection and support they need and are entitled to. As for the interpellier's question about what I do to limit the number of child marriages in Sweden, I can say that the government takes the work against child marriage very seriously. In the past, we have mainly encountered the issue of preventing children from getting married when travelling to the country of origin. The Finnish Immigration Service has, however, in the spring of 2016 through the report Are you married? identified that the extent of children, mostly girls, who are already married when they come to Sweden seems to have increased. Governments and authorities have initiated a number of measures to address the current challenges. As a result of the report, the Finnish Immigration Service has identified a number of areas for improvement regarding the internal work with these children, including procedures for reporting concerns and information to municipalities. The Finnish Immigration Service considers married children without guardians in Sweden to be unaccompanied, and these matters are therefore handled according to the procedures applicable to unaccompanied minors. The responsibility for the support and care of unaccompanied children lies with the municipalities' social services. The Social Services shall investigate and assess the needs of the child in accordance with the Social Services Act. The fact that a child is married is often a reason for social services to pay special attention to the child's situation and need for support. When social services decide where it is most appropriate for the child to be placed, an individual assessment must always be made. In the assessment of social services, the best interests of the child must always be taken into account. Child marriage is a problem that not only concerns the asylum and reception system. It can also be about completed or planned child and forced marriages, as well as children and young people who have been abducted abroad or are at risk of being abducted. In 2014, several legislative changes were made that strengthened protection against forced marriages and child marriages in Sweden. Two new crimes were introduced into the penal code, forced marriage and misleading forced marriage. In addition, the possibility for children to obtain an exemption from the county administrative board for marriage was abolished. Foreign children's marriages are now recognised only if there are exceptional reasons. As previously announced by the government, these changes and reforms will be evaluated. The government has taken further steps to strengthen child protection. In February 2016, a bill was decided with proposals to criminalise the conspiracy of marriage. The Swedish Parliament accepted the proposal in May 2016. The amendment, which entered into force on 1 July 2016, will allow law enforcement authorities to intervene even earlier against suspected cases of forced marriages. In conclusion, I would like to say that, for me as Minister for Children and Gender Equality in a feminist government, it is absolutely essential to stand consistently on the side of children and women. My point of departure is that children should not be married. I and the rest of the government will follow developments closely and are prepared to consider further measures if necessary.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-95	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Åsa for the full answer. We seem to agree on the problem picture that we in Sweden in 2016 actually have children who get married away and that there are children to Sweden from other countries that are already married and who can continue to be married here in Sweden. So there are children in Sweden in 2016 who live in marriage. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is clear that every person under the age of 18 is a child. In the Migration Agency's report Are you married? , which is also referred to by the Government, it is shown that 132 children were married when they without guardians sought protection in Sweden. These children came to Sweden after August 2015. How many came to Sweden before August last year we do not know. Nor do we know how many people live in marriage and came here with guardians as a large family. Madam President, I would like We agree on the problem picture, but then what? My question was: What does the Government do to limit the number of children's marriages in Sweden? I find the answer is that the government takes this very seriously. It's great, but it's not enough. This requires action from the Government of Regnér. This issue must be given higher priority than is being done today. Child marriage can have serious consequences. It's not just about children not being allowed to be children. Girls are prevented from training, and early teen - agers are not ready to give birth. Furthermore, abuse is common in child marriage. Many children are victims of so - called honor killings when they refuse to marry or choose a partner other than the one their parents or relatives have appointed. This is happening in Sweden in 2016. Madam President, I would like In July 2014, many new legislative changes decided by the Riksdag entered into force, as the Government also explained. This year, 2016, the amendment to the law came to criminalise preparatory acts, and that's great. But can we be content with that when we continue to see that so many children in Sweden live in marriage? In Sweden 2016, all children must have the right to be a child. They should have the right to their bodies and to a life of freedom. The report are you married? shows that several children already have children of their own and that most of the children are assigned to a municipality where they have a loved one or a relative, that is, usually the spouse. I might as well say girls because 97% of the children that the Migration Board's report deals with are girls. The report shows that in many cases social services have not received a report of concern and that social services have not investigated the marriage further. So you let the child live with your spouse. This clearly shows that there is a lack of competence in these matters at both the Migration Agency and Sweden's social services. Madam President, I would like I agree that this is serious, and I still wonder: what does Minister Regnér do to limit the number of children's marriages in Sweden?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-105	Madam President, I would like It is an incredibly important issue, because it is about children's rights and, not least, about gender equality, because so many of the children are girls. Of course, it is also terrible for boys to be married off. Nevertheless, a few milestones have emerged in recent years, and the government has presented this. It is about the crime of going abroad and marrying your child or a related child. Now it has even been ensured that preparation for this crime is punishable. This is important, because it is difficult for these children once they are abroad. Then they have no one to talk to, they don't know how to get home and so on. Now it becomes easier to prevent. It is important that society sends out a clear signal that this is not acceptable, and we have done so with the tightening up that has taken place recently. Of course, it is important that it is also followed up so that it works in practice. I believe that the reinforcement of resources to the police is important, because it is a matter of investigating these crimes and catching those responsible. It is also important to invest in social services, and the Minister has announced such efforts. It is difficult to recruit social secretaries to work with children and young people, because it is a tough job situation. If you do not meet this challenge, you will not be able to help these children. Much is based on social services seeing when there is danger and being able to intervene as early as possible. A few years ago, it was a case of a 14-year-old girl married to a 21-year-old man. In fact, social services sounded the alarm, so social services are not always the problem. It was a mistake at the Migration Board that made this slip through. But after the social services sounded the alarm, the marriage could be cancelled and the girl transferred from the man. This is the only case with someone under 15 years of age that has been invented in recent years. This is of course serious, because the 15-year limit is sacred. No one under the age of 15 should live with anyone else in a marriage. In the case of children aged between 15 and 18, it is now clear in Swedish law that there are no exceptions. If you marry in Sweden, or if one has a Swedish connection or nationality, we accept no exceptions. There have been some exceptions with refugees. These cases have been handled a little differently. The goal is to be very restrictive. However, as one expert on these issues pointed out, there are some differences. Let us say that one is 18 years old and the other is 16 years old when they marry in their home country. When they come to Sweden they have been 17 years old and 19 years old. It is very possible that in many of these cases the marriage will be rejected. But compared to a 15-year-old girl who marries a 45-year-old man in her home country, there's some difference. It's a bit the same as when you discuss 15-year-olds to have sex in Sweden. It is milder if one is 15 years old and the other is 14 years old than if one is 14 years old and the other is 50 years old. These are difficult balances, but the main rule must be that all marriages are dissolved unless both have reached the age of 18.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-117	Madam President, I would like This is a big and important issue. I am really glad that I have it, because we need to debate it. When I came in here, I thought there were quite a few people here, considering that the question is so big and important. But that is not really the case, because this is an issue that is being debated throughout the world. In particular, the women's movement and children's rights organisations run it, often also in the countries of origin, if we are talking about the migration context in the first place. However, they have met with great resistance. You may not believe that, but that has been the case for the past 10 to 15 years. They are underfunded and have often been met with opposition from governments and other organisations that have not wanted to talk about sexual and reproductive rights, and especially about girls' right to their sexuality and an independent life. This is something that Sweden is driving hard and that we must continue with. Had this been pushed harder at a global level since the 1994-95 UN agreements, more girls would probably have been able to go to school instead, and fewer parents would have felt that this was something they could do. Hopefully, fewer men had married young girls. However, it is not too late. We work a lot on this track, because it's important. What else do I do? I think this is an extremely important issue, and I have been involved in it for many years at both global and national level. In the government we are discussing it a lot, and we have taken a number of measures. It is absolutely true that social services are absolutely central, as Hillevi Larsson mentioned, and we have strengthened them when it comes to staffing. It is the first time ever that it has been done from a national point of view, but it has been necessary because social services and social services for children and young people have been under very strong pressure for a number of years. The National Board of Health and Welfare has a website with questions and answers where relevant actors can search for these questions, and we have a dialogue about updating it. Perhaps even more important is that the National Board of Health and Welfare repeats its guidance in this area when it comes to management recommendations to social services and social welfare boards in the case of unaccompanied minors, for this applies to unaccompanied minors. These issues are now being deepened in the handbook that the National Board of Health and Welfare is about to publish. In the budget bill, the government announced a centre for knowledge of unaccompanied minors, for this applies to unaccompanied minors. The issue will be dealt with in this context. The government has announced that we intend to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law, and that is to strengthen the rights of children, including girls. I will shortly be presenting a strategy on violence against women. Some of it has a strong focus on honor-related issues, including this. The government has already announced in the past that we should review these fairly new legislations, which deal with child marriages, because they have not really had the desired effect and to see what further action can be taken. We will come back to what the directives should contain. We have also provided funds for information to newly arrived young people about sexual and reproductive rights in Sweden. I am part of a UN context in a board where it is about how violence against children should be combated. Unfortunately, many times child marriages are a means of concealing human trafficking and, in addition, there is a lot of violence within their framework. I think we have taken a number of initiatives, but of course we need to do more.
i-3WA9WfGrf9PRLbecyYQjof	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Regnér, for your clarification! The existence of child marriage in other countries and in their legislation is serious. We cannot change that here in our Parliament. On the other hand, we can be tough and stand up for our and others' children with a broad commitment and cooperation in the world. But here in Sweden we can actually do something, both for those who are already here and for those who come to Sweden. The Government of Regnér has as its starting point that children should not be married, and she will follow developments closely. Then I wonder what kind of development we're talking about. From August last year and six months forward, it has emerged that 132 children who are married have come to Sweden. Most of them still are. We don't know how big the number of darkness is, and how many came before, we don't know either. Nor do we know how many Swedish children are married away every year in other countries. We can see in schools that students are missing when it's time to score. Children are dramatically snatched out of their children's lives and deprived of their rights to be married away, in Sweden in 2016. Madam President, I would like I do not see here how the Government believes that these children's rights should be strengthened by the government. Many children are married away in refugee camps for fear of being injured during the flight. Many have been subjected to sexual harassment and violence and then marry the perpetrator in order to avoid stigmatisation. This is going to be tricky, I think, for the perpetrator, because then, as in Syria, for example, you can avoid being punished. Then you come to Sweden and may continue to live in marriage. In many other countries, men are the norm in the family. The report are you married? shows that many children who come here are married women who often interact with the family, that is, the husband, and that few further questions are asked. Women seeking protection do not receive individual examination to the same extent as men. When the woman in the family is also a child, there is an enormous risk that she will not have her rights as a child satisfied here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Therefore, I think it is justified to repeat the question in my interpellation, because I feel that I do not get really good answers. What does Minister Regnér do to ensure that children in Sweden are helped to get out of marriage that has taken place against their will?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-138	Madam President, I would like In the case of girls under the age of 18 – and boys, where this is the case – we need to look carefully today at the circumstances in which they are married – whether they are – how it has happened and how they feel about it. All forms of forced marriage shall be dissolved immediately. In some cases exceptions have been made, such as when the girl is 17 years old and herself states that she has a strong desire to continue living with her husband, for example when they have children in common. You can discuss that. There are certainly many arguments against doing so, but the important thing I still think is to start from the children and talk to them so that they can express their own wishes. Marriage is the most problematic. When it comes to cohabiting relationships, Swedish young people live as cohabiting couples in Sweden, for example, when they are 17 years old. That is not what we are opposed to, but it is against marriage, which is a binding contract that is not really to be concluded before the age of 18. I think that the main objective is clear: we will prevent all forms of child marriage in Sweden, or in other countries if you go there, and we will dissolve the child marriages that are entered into in other countries and then you have come here. Certain derogations have been granted. I believe that many municipalities are calling for guidelines. Some municipalities have had extra cases, and they have been handled a little differently. Guidelines are being called for. I have been given indications that there will be such a thing that the municipalities, which grope quite a lot blindly, will receive guidance.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-143	Madam President, I would like We're discussing child marriage. We have heard the Minister stand here and say that her starting point is that children should not be married. We have been told by Hillevi Larsson from the Social Democrats that the goal is to be restrictive with child marriage and that the main rule should be that children should not be married. I find child marriage totally unacceptable. I have to say that I find it amazing that we do not get the same clarity from the Social Democrats. Ekott had a review a couple of months ago where they found that they found up to 16 cases where the municipality of Malmö, in particular, has placed underage girls together with their adult spouses. In one case, it was a 13-year-old who ended up together with his 33-year-old husband. It's extremely serious. I find it shocking that we are only hearing excuses and a little less statements about how to work to counteract this, when at the same time we are not addressing the really relevant issue. It is no wonder that we have this system, because if you read the law it is very clear: Child marriage is prohibited in Sweden. You can't get married as a minor in Sweden. You can't send your daughter to another country and marry her there, according to Swedish law. But if you come as already married without any previous connection to Sweden, we accept child marriage, according to Swedish law. I think it is a totally unacceptable order, and I have exercised that we should phase it out. The only decent rescue for the almost apologetic attitude of the Social Democrats on the issue of child marriage would be for the Minister to say clearly now: Yes, we will remove this valve. There should be no child marriage in Sweden. A concrete and straightforward question to the Minister is: Is the Minister prepared to take the initiative to remove the valves that now allow children to be systematically placed together with their so-called spouses, as is done in Hillevi Larsson's municipality of Malmö, where the Social Democrats have ruled since democracy was introduced?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-149	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell asked in her first speech what the government is doing. That's when I told you. Then she said she wants to know what the government is doing. Then Fredrik Schulte says that he does not want any statements on how we work on this issue. You have the right to have completely different views on this, but I can once again clarify what the government is doing. Children should not be married in Sweden; that is the government's starting point. The previous government made good changes in this area in 2014. However, they were not good enough because we still have a difficult situation, especially when newly arrived children are married. Therefore, the government will review these fairly new legislations at an early stage to see what further action can be taken. I do not think that children should be married in Sweden, and we will come back with directives. The previous government itself could have taken further steps in its time. Now we are doing so by reviewing the legislation, and we will therefore come back with directives on how it should look. The situation is this: When social services have a child to place, social services should look at this child as a child. It shall be counted as an unaccompanied minor if he or she does not have parents or guardians with him or her. Then you should conduct an investigation according to social services and all the provisions of the Social Services Act that give the child strong protection. You should see this child just like any other child. Unfortunately, according to the UN, child marriages appear to have increased under pressure on migration and war in the immediate region of the EU. When a child who has been married away comes to Sweden, social services have to deal with this child as any girl – as it usually is – at any time and spend a lot of time building trust in her so that she will know that the adults who are now around her want her well. She has the right to an accommodation that is the best for her, the right to freedom and security like any other child placed and opportunities for education and a life of her own. This is the mission of social services. I tried to explain in my previous speech that the National Board of Health and Welfare strengthens recommendations regarding the handling of these issues by making a manual, as Hillevi Larsson requested. We are also strengthening knowledge through a centre for unaccompanied minors where this issue will of course be included. Of course, the fact that the Convention on the Rights of the Child becomes a law also strengthens the rights of girls. I will come back with more proposals in the forthcoming strategy on violence against women in respect of honour-related violence. Today, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland is the centre working on the Government's mission with honor-related issues. There is also a national telephone that you can call as an authority or another actor if you want guidance on the issues. That's right, we're working on this a lot! I can assure you that I don't think children should be married. That is why we will also review the legislation from 2014.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-157	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that social services should work on the issues but that it will not be as you would have expected. That is also why I asked how the Government would ensure that children in Sweden are helped to get out of marriage that has been entered into against their will. It's obvious it's not working. We see this partly through reports, partly through what we can read in the media around Sweden. We can also read that the 132 children included in the report are spread over 80 municipalities, which makes it difficult for municipalities to have the skills needed to ensure that children receive the help and support to which they are entitled. The Swedish Parliament's investigation service has not been able to find a single case during the previous year where a child has been taken care of under the law on the care of young people. The report also shows that the Migration Agency has not reported all children on to social services and that social services have not done much about it after having received a report of concern. Again, the question is: How do you ensure that what you had in mind is done? It is clear that municipalities need guidelines, but it must also be ensured that it will be as planned. I don't think kids should be married either. That's where we agree, and it's nice. But child marriages in Sweden are on the increase, and so the question is: Is the Government prepared to ban child marriage entirely, that is, that even those who come here should not continue to be married?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-162	Madam President, I would like I think that Alexandra Anstrell's closing words are something to which the Minister really must respond. That is why I will repeat Alexandra Anstrell's question: is the Minister prepared to do what is really necessary to ban child marriage, namely to completely remove the possibilities for minors to be married here in Sweden? I think the efforts that the Minister has talked about here in the speaker's chair are excellent. I don't want to belittle them in any way. But what upsets me is that the Minister is standing and holding long statements about what she is doing but does not care to take hold of what she really ought to take hold of, namely to remove the valve that exists in the legislation that allows minors who come here as refugees to continue to be married. The signal you send out to young girls who have been married away in their home countries and who have fled in the hope of a brighter future and freedom here in Sweden is that you welcome them by letting them continue to live in the oppression that they took with them from their home countries. That is totally unacceptable. I have to say that it is amazing that the Minister cannot give a straight answer and makes excuses. She says it's hard when new arrivals are married and we can see what we can do. This should be crystal clear. That should be the easiest question in the world. Just remove the exception in the legislation. We should have done it in the Alliance government. We should have done it when we tightened the law and forbade child marriage. But we did not foresee the problem, because it was not a problem that was mentioned in the Swedish political debate and no problem that occurred. It is something that has come with the huge flows of refugees that have come in recent years. Now we have the concrete problem on the table, and it is amazing that the Minister cannot give a clear answer that she intends to do anything about it.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-167	Madam President, I would like Then I can say that I am pleased that Fredrik Schulte has drawn attention to these issues now. We who have worked with sexual and reproductive rights since 1994 and 1995 and at the major international conferences knew that they existed. That is why I say this: we have a way of working in Sweden. If we want to change legislation, we are investigating the issue and looking at the various consequences of it. We will do so in this context too, and we have already announced that we will review the legislation. I don't want children to be married in Sweden. I think I have said it five times, and I say it because I really think so. The Migration Agency has done the report with a self-critical attitude. They took their own initiative, and they wanted to know how to deal with these issues themselves. I assume that we are dealing with issues such as the need to report concerns at all times when it is to be done, and that these children are really seen as unaccompanied children. I am personally responsible for social services, and within this framework I often have conversations with municipalities and social services and social services for children and young people. I know that they take the issues very seriously and that they really are on the girls' side. They've had a very tough situation. Had the former bourgeois government strengthened the social care of children and young people, as a tremendous amount of reports were requested even during your time, perhaps even better conditions would have been in place to really give every child the individual support to which it is entitled under the Social Services Act. I work hard on these issues, and I will continue to do so. I do not want children in Sweden to be married, and I want equality to cover everyone.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-172	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me which of the two alternative ways to design VAT rates are presented by the European Commission in the VAT Action Plan which I prefer. The European Commission presented a VAT Action Plan in April 2016. The Action Plan provides a summary presentation of the future work of the European Commission in the field of VAT. The Action Plan does not contain any concrete proposals. The intention is for the European Commission to present concrete proposals by the end of 2016 and in 2017. One of the areas mentioned in the Action Plan is tax rates, and the European Commission mentions two options for how tax rates could be designed in the future. One option is to modernise and extend the list of goods and services to which a reduced rate may be applied. The second option is to allow Member States to choose entirely which goods and services can be taxed at a lower rate. We are now waiting for the European Commission to present the proposal on tax rates. It is not currently known what the European Commission will propose. As soon as they present their concrete proposal, the government will take a position on it.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-176	Madam President, I would like The EU has a very complicated framework for VAT. The reason for this is that when one began looking at VAT issues in the EU, it was concluded that one would try to arrange the regulatory framework in such a way that if one product or service is produced in one country but sold in another, one should be paid in the first country. This has since gradually changed because it has created problems with tax competition. A concrete example of this is Apple. They have located their headquarters in Luxembourg because there is low VAT there. In this way, in the past, they have been able to pay low VAT and yet sell their digital products across Europe. For a number of additional reasons, the principle that VAT should be paid in the country where a product or service is sold has been adopted. This means that much of the enormous regulatory burden on the EU's VAT rules is no longer needed. The aim of this framework has been to try to reduce opportunities for tax competition, i.e. that countries compete by having as little VAT as possible to attract businesses to locate their businesses there. Now that this is no longer necessary, the European Commission has developed two different proposals on how to deal with this. One is to simplify the regulatory framework and the other to remove it altogether in principle. Madam President, I would like I think it is quite obvious how we should act at this stage, and that is the complete removal of the regulatory framework and the full exercise of the Member States' right to regulate VAT rates themselves. If there is no longer a need to solve a problem jointly in the EU, it is obvious that the issue should be here in Parliament and be a Member State issue. It is quite difficult to see what would be the argument for not applying that principle. I think it gets a little messy when it comes to how the government relates to these kinds of issues. In the general debate, the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister want to say: we do not want to send more power than necessary to the EU. At the same time, the big question for Stefan Löfven, Prime Minister, is that we should establish a so-called social pillar and send more power down to Brussels for decisions on a number of issues that we are deciding on today at national level. On the question of VAT, the Minister of Finance cannot give a clear indication of where she stands. We are living at a time when there are quite strong criticisms of globalisation and international cooperation. As everyone knows, the Brexit vote was held just before the summer, and we have a growing movement within Europe that questions the value of the European Union. I believe that the European Union is important, but it is also important to ensure that we do not give too much power to Brussels, on the one hand for reasons of principle, because it is wrong, and, on the other hand, because it would fertilise forces that want to completely override international cooperation. I would like a clear message from the Minister for Finance that, now that she has the chance, she is clearly working to bring power back to the Member States. She can now do so on this specific issue.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-184	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Fredrik Schulte, it sounds like he believes that the VAT system is already based on what is called the country of destination principle, i.e. that VAT is paid in the country in which the buyer is located. But that is not the case, and he thinks it is a misconception. That is not the case today, and it is doubtful whether such rules will become reality and when. This makes this issue much more complicated than it appears when Fredrik Schulte bases his reasoning on the fact that the country of destination principle already prevails. Handing over the whole decision-making process to the Member States has a number of complications which Fredrik Schulte does not take into account, given that he assumes that it is a different principle for taxation than it actually applies.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-186	Madam President, I would like This is a rather typical style of debate on the part of the Minister for Finance. She takes a small detail of the reasoning and enlarges and misinterprets it. In this way she avoids answering the real question. I am well aware that we do not have a fully developed system of the country of destination principle, but we are moving in that direction. It is clear that the European Commission wants to go there and that most Member States want to go in that direction. With this in mind, there is also a simple principle that it will be easier to return more decision-making power to the Member States. Now it is not about something that I am just making up here, but now it is about two concrete proposals from the European Commission. Both concrete proposals from the European Commission are feasible. Otherwise, the European Commission had not presented them. They're viable. Some Member States have indicated their preference for one proposal and others have indicated their preference for the other. I think it would be good if Sweden were to take a clear stand on the side of this debate that clearly wants to bring power back to the Member States. But the Minister of Finance wants to argue about historical details instead of really answering the question what she wants. This has become quite symptomatic of how the government relates to EU issues. Stefan Löfven stands in the speaker's seat and says: Now we shall have no Treaty changes; we shall not move any more power to the EU. But then the only question he is actually pushing in Europe is to move more power there with the social pillar. In the election campaign for the European Parliament elections, Magdalena Andersson sat in the debate studio on television and said that she was not in favour of any EU tax. But the Social Democrats' action programme states that they want an EU tax. The Social Democrats have a strange relationship with the European Union. They say one thing. Then they do something else. And when you try to put them against the wall, they're not interested in answering the question. I now ask Magdalena Andersson a very direct question. Now we have the chance to return more power to the Member States, to Sweden, to the Swedish Parliament, from the EU. Are you gonna take that chance or not?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-194	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Andersson and Fredrik Schulte, for the debate so far! The history of VAT obligations and how it has developed in the EU in recent years has become a rather long and arduous sequel for many Swedish companies. It is felt that doing business in an internal market in a developed, digitised world has become extremely complicated. Threats of double taxation and strange, difficult and complicated rules have unfortunately contributed to greatly hampering the business environment and the development of an otherwise rapidly growing industry. It could explode and continue to develop Swedish business. It is also an industry where Sweden happens to be at the forefront and has the opportunity to get a head start internationally. A lot's happened lately. The change in VAT principles has helped to make it easier, for example, for app companies to sell their products and to be taxed reasonably. This makes it understandable and fair and enables Swedish companies to compete with companies in other countries. Sweden can thus be an attractive country to stay and operate in, even though the UK attracts with more attractive tax rules or that Estonia attracts with competent staff, such as coders, programmers and everything else. The question of VAT obligations and the future of this system is very important and should attract quite a lot of interest. Fredrik Schulte has a rather pointed formulation in his question. But now that we have the chance to discuss this in the Chamber, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance how she views this issue in the future. I understand that she wants to make it clear that the European Commission has not landed in any ready-made proposal that can be considered yet. But what direction does she see in the future? What basic principles does the Swedish Government want to see in the future?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-199	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte says that the country of destination principle is a small detail of what we are discussing. That is not the case at all. After all, the intervention is based on the principle that these rules are no longer needed at EU level when the country of destination principle applies. I am still trying to point out that the country of destination principle is not in place and that it is unclear whether and when it will be fully implemented. The basis for the question thus looks somewhat different from what is apparent when listening to Fredrik Schulte. It is also important to point out that the European Commission has not made any concrete proposal on which the governments of the countries should take a position. It will come at the end of 2016 or at the beginning of 2017. The extent to which it is up to countries to decide which goods and services to have reduced VAT on and does not depend largely on how the country of destination principle is implemented. If you do not have a country of destination principle, if you make it free for countries to decide for themselves which goods should have reduced VAT, we risk having tax competition between the countries. Such a scenario is a clear disadvantage. It is also important to recall what Erik Bengtzboe says, namely that VAT is complicated. If countries were free to decide on which goods to have reduced VAT, the VAT system would be even more complicated. It would be good if the Moderates talked together, so that they have the same view on whether to increase or reduce the hassle in the EU.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-204	Madam President, I would like We are very much in agreement in the Moderates. We do not think that more power should be sent to Europe. If there are examples of a return of decision-making power from the EU to the Member States, this should be done when there is no longer a need to take decisions jointly at EU level. We do not hear similar approaches from the Social Democrats. I repeat once again that the European Commission has said that they are open to taking an even greater step than many people had actually expected and saying that it should be entirely up to the Member States themselves to set their VAT rates. It is at that stage, when the European Commission says so and at the same time puts forward that an alternative would be that we loosen the regulatory framework but still have it fundamentally, that Sweden should go in and try to influence. Then we should not sit back and say that we wait and see what final product the European Commission lands in. At that stage, Sweden will go in and pursue a clear line. And that line should be that we should return more decision-making power to the Member States, when there is no longer a need to take joint decisions at European level. When we look at how the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are acting in the EU Council and down in Brussels, it is clear that they are speaking with a split tongue. They say that they protect national self-determination, but they act in many situations in a directly opposite way. This is one such example. The social pillar, through which Stefan Löfven wants to move more power to the EU, is another.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-208	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Magdalena Andersson for her reply. Of course, VAT is complicated. If not, many entrepreneurs can testify to this. This should be a clear signal to the Minister for Finance that there is also a need to review the functioning of these systems at national level. VAT and the rules governing international VAT and how to trade between EU countries are complicated, as is taxation based on where companies choose to place their business ve rsus where they have their employees versus where they sell their products. However, this is no excuse to duck the issue. It's hard to take, but it doesn't mean the government can afford the luxury of not having an opinion. Due to developments over the past year on the VAT issue in the EU, we now have the opportunity to return the VAT issue to the Swedish Parliament. It is clear what line the Moderates want, namely more decision-making in parliament and less decision-making in the EU. We must restore power over these issues to the Member States and minimise EU decision-making to precisely what is cross-border and where necessary. It would be nice and desirable to have a constructive dialogue on this in Sweden. But it requires that the government is willing to participate, that the government is willing to show its cards and to reveal what intentions and what will it has. My question remains. What direction does the Minister for Finance and the Government want? I understand that there is nothing ready on the table to take a stand on. That is all the more reason to get into the debate and point out the direction in which the EU should go, rather than passively waiting for the answers from other countries.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-214	Madam President, I would like When there is a proposal from the Commission, the Swedish Government will come up with a position that we will then anchor in the Swedish Parliament, just as we anchor all our positions. I would particularly like to point out to Fredrik Schulte that the positions that I am putting forward in Brussels are anchored in the European Council. On the EU Board, the government has collaborated with, among others, the Moderates on basically everything that I have put forward in the EU, just as the former moderate-led government cooperated with the Social Democrats. When you listened to Fredrik Schulte it was easy to believe otherwise. Yes, VAT is complicated. The Government has announced an investigation into the Swedish VAT legislation, precisely to review the overall VAT legislation and to simplify the regulatory framework in Sweden. However, it is only possible to say that it would increase the difficulty of the VAT system if we were to go in the direction proposed by Fredrik Schulte and Erik Bengtzboe. If all countries are allowed to decide exactly which goods and services they want reduced VAT rates, the VAT system in the EU will be considerably more complicated. It's a little hard to deal with the Moderates' views. They want simpler VAT systems in the EU while they want to transfer the decision-making rights to the Member States. These positions are not linked. They're not compatible with each other. In terms of whether to have rules at EU or national level, it is important to be clear that there are both the advantages and disadvantages of these two options. To what extent it is possible to have rules at national level at all is based on the extent to which the country of destination principle applies. It is important to take this along with you on the basis of the concrete proposal that the Commission will put forward.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-220	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether I and the government are considering re-imposing the wealth tax and whether we are considering a reduction in interest rebates. The answer is that we do not have such proposals.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-222	Madam President, I would like Now we have just heard the Minister for Finance say: we have no such proposals. This is a very interesting wording. Why? Because it is part of a pattern of how the Minister of Finance usually argues. Before the election, the Minister of Finance said she didn't have any proposals to raise the petrol tax-- no, sorry, she said she wouldn't raise the petrol tax. When she came into government, she said: We have no proposals to increase the tax on petrol. And when it's been another couple of months, she'll raise the gas tax. The surplus case: Before the elections, Minister of Finance Anders Borg criticised the fact that, in her opinion, he did not comply with the surplus target. When she herself became Minister of Finance, she said: No, I have no concrete proposals to phase out the surplus target. Then a few months go by, and she closes the surplus target. RUT and ROT: Before the election, she said: I will not touch RUT and ROT. Then she became Minister of Finance, and she said: I have no proposal to touch RUT and ROT. That's what happens six months, and then there's a suggestion that there'll be a clear nagging of RUT and ROT at the edge. She said before the election that she wouldn't raise taxes for ordinary people who work. Then she became Minister of Finance and it went a few months. So she uses the wording: I have no proposals to raise taxes for ordinary people who work. A few months later, she comes forward with proposals to raise taxes for ordinary people who work. When the Minister of Finance says she has no proposals for anything, you should take it with a large pinch of salt. We note that the Social Democrats find it difficult to pursue a policy that is in line with what they say before the elections. Now we know that the Left Party has been the driving force both for the introduction of wealth tax and for the reduction of interest rebates in the run-up to the budget negotiations. Six months ago, it was a minister of environmentalism who said that the interest rebates should be removed. In the media, data has come to light that Magdalena Andersson himself has tried to take the initiative to wind up interest rebates. When Magdalena Andersson says that she does not have any concrete proposals, it is in all likelihood that we will see concrete proposals to reduce interest rebates or to reintroduce the wealth tax for the 2018 budget. What is also worrying is that this Social Democratic government – unlike previous Social Democratic governments – is not interested in improving the conditions for doing business, running businesses and working here in Sweden. Everyone from Ingvar Carlsson and Göran Persson to Thomas Östros had, in addition to what is at the heart of Social Democratic politics, also proposals to improve the Swedish economy. Göran Persson lowered the tax almost as much as Anders Borg did. He took away the inheritance and gift tax. This Social Democratic government is only interested in raising taxes, only interested in making things more difficult and worse for business and working in this country. The fact that the Minister of Finance is unable to give a reply in which she clearly rejects the removal of interest on the drafts and the reintroduction of the wealth tax is worrying for the future.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-235	Madam President, I would like This is a legitimate question on the grounds that the S-MP government is extremely dependent on the Left Party. The Left Party, as I said, is the old Communists. As far as I know, a left-wing party does not shy away from raising taxes for ordinary people. Everyone knows you want to restore the wealth tax. When the Social Democrats, the Left or the Green Party talk about increased taxes, it sounds like it would not affect ordinary people. If one were to reintroduce the wealth tax with the old rules, a large part of Sweden's population would have to pay wealth tax. In fact, it is believed that wealth tax would be paid by the wealthy and wealthy. But you can draw parallels to the state tax. In my opinion, broad income groups should not pay government taxes. That's what those who make a lot of money are supposed to do, but that's not the case. Today, many broad income groups pay government taxes, such as midwives, high school teachers and miners. I think that the question is justified because the government is seeking support from the Communists who would like to reintroduce this wealth tax which would be so harmful to Sweden. Why would the wealth tax be harmful to Sweden? Well, first of all, those who are rich and wealthy would certainly find a good way to avoid paying wealth tax while ordinary wage earners – who are sitting on a fortune that is stuck in a house or apartment – would have to pay under the old rules some percentage of the amount over 1.5 million. It is clear that it would damage the will to invest in order to create new jobs in Sweden. The question is therefore justified, and this was probably the shortest answer I have ever seen in an interpellation debate. No, it is not expected to introduce wealth tax, but I would like a guarantee from the Minister of Finance that it is not planned to introduce wealth tax. What if the Left Party were to fight hard and say: This issue is so very important to us that we will not support the government's budget unless you reintroduce the wealth tax? It would be interesting to hear how the Minister of Finance would then reason. Would power be more important than this particular issue? I am very concerned about Sweden's future as it looks now. It will be more expensive to work, and it would be the end of the line to introduce wealth tax that would not affect the rich and wealthy but would affect large parts of Sweden's population.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-243	Madam President, I would like The matter of the wealth tax is a rather interesting one. I have worked as a lawyer in the banking sector on tax matters. I know that Magdalena Andersson is well acquainted with the tax area given her previous assignment. She therefore knows as well as I do that the wealth tax – just as Erik Andersson has just touched – did not affect the wealthy, but the affected property owners and ordinary homeowners. Those who had a lot of money and money to buy consulting help, which I myself sold as a banker, had no problem with avoiding wealth tax. In addition, many used illegal methods to hide money in other countries. That is why, among other things, the Alliance put a lot of energy into creating double taxation treaties with other countries, while at the same time removing the wealth tax. I believe that we have reached between 40 and 50 such agreements during the eight years of the Alliance. We got a very good insight. We saw the effect when we removed the wealth tax. The money returned to Sweden and could be invested here instead of being hidden in accounts abroad. I think that was a very good effect for the Swedish business community and the investment climate. I'm just as worried as Fredrik Schulte and Erik Andersson. Before the elections, it was said that the Social Democrats wanted to introduce a tax on wealth. It wouldn't be a fortune tax without a fortune tax. No one really got a grip on what they really meant by a tax on wealth. It was presented in the media and sometimes by social democrats locally as a reintroduction of the wealth tax, but they called it something else to confuse a little bit. I agree with Erik Andersson's question to the Minister for Finance. I, too, would like a description from the Minister for Finance of what she and her party really mean by taxes on wealth. Is it a new wealth tax or is it something else? I would also like a guarantee from the Minister for Finance that under no circumstances will any kind of property tax be introduced during this term of office. If we could have such a guarantee today, that would be excellent.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-250	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Fredrik Schulte in particular, you can get the impression that the government's policy has damaged the Swedish economy. As noted, among other things, I have raised a great deal of taxes. This is because the moderate-led government left behind the biggest deficits since the budgetary adjustment. The current government was then forced to pursue a responsible economic policy to pick up these deficits. We have done so, and it is now increasingly being recognised internationally what a successful economic policy this government has been pursuing. Fredrik Schulte says that we must improve the Swedish economy. Yesterday we received an international study showing that Sweden has jumped up three investments in the ranking of competitive countries. We had jumped up most of all in terms of economic policy, where we got 20 positions further up. And today we received the IMF's statement on the situation in the Swedish economy. They give the government great recognition that it is pursuing a balanced and balanced fiscal policy at this stage. The Moderates say we're dependent on the Left Party. The bourgeois parties were very clear that they demanded budget cooperation with the Left Party in order to let the government's budget through the Riksdag. If you have changed your mind on the matter, that is, of course, a welcome message. I'm looking forward to it. Several of the speakers refer to the fact that the limit for starting to pay government income tax is not set out in the way it did in the past. There is, of course, an automatic tax reduction in the system, and we are slowing down this tax reduction a little. My question to the Moderates will then, of course, be whether they intend to restore the change that we made last year. Are you going to spend money on it in the budget? And is it intended to remove the reduction in the employment tax deduction that we proposed last year? If this comes from the Moderate Budget Movement, it would be good to know about it. That would be clarification in this debate. As regards the interest rebates, several parties presented them in the housing policy talks. It was felt that it would be well-balanced to make a change in the interest rebates, but we did not reach a settlement in the talks and so the issue is not at present relevant. The wealth tax is not something on which the Social Democrats have gone to elections. I also see many negative effects with the wealth tax. I myself think that there is a problem with charging the tax on smaller companies. It is difficult for the Swedish Tax Agency to know whether companies collect private wealth or whether they collect to make an investment, and these are aggravating circumstances for the wealth tax. Jan Ericson also mentions the fact that wealth tax does not always pay the s and that some tried to hide the money in foreign accounts. This is something that the moderate parliamentary group has very deep insight into.
i-Q6fCSK5mEfAC1tvrx8Q31s	An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister Anna Johansson, Minister Gabriel Wikström and Minister Peter Eriksson. The Government of Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-259	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Isabella Lövin. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance have said that the job tax deductions have been ineffective. According to the Council of Finance Ministers, the Institute of Economic Affairs and all the econometric studies that have been carried out on the effects of the job tax credit, this is a reduction of equilibrium unemployment of at least 180 000 people. It was also a reduction in actual joblessness and an increase in employment despite the fact that we had the worst global economic crisis since the Second World War in the form of the financial crisis. I would like an answer from Isabella Lövin if it is the official line of the government that the job tax deduction has not had a positive employment effect. If so, on the basis of what facts does the government make such statements?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-262	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question. We note that, since the government took office, unemployment has fallen below 7%. It nailed itself to 8 percent throughout the eight years of power of the alliance government. We now have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. There are 120 000 more people in work since we took office. All the job tax deductions carried out by the bourgeois government removed 140 billion a year from investments in welfare, from infrastructural investment and, not least, from environmental investment. Since the current government has started investing in the construction of society again, it also shows very clear effects on employment.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-264	Mr President, I would like to Now the Deputy Prime Minister should learn the difference between prosperity and recession. Now we are in a boom and unemployment is falling. For a very long time we had a very prolonged recession in Sweden, and then we also had a worse development. I note that the Government does not answer the question. The question was: The government claims, contrary to all the facts and expertise, that the job tax credit has not had a positive effect. What is the government's support for this claim?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-266	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that there is an ideological difference in the basic view of how to build welfare. This government is investing in massive investments in housing, infrastructure and welfare, not least through the 10 billions of wealth we give to the municipalities. We see that youth unemployment is now lower than it has been in 13 years. There, Sweden is among the best EU countries and better than the US. It is also an effect of the policies pursued.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-268	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to ask Minister Isabella Lövin my question. It's a case she knows well. This applies to the Swedish heart doctor Fikru Maru who was imprisoned in Ethiopia. He's been sitting for three years without getting a sentence. Today, the Telegram of the Newspaper says he has received a judgment. I have not yet been able to find out what it really means. His state of health is such that if he does not receive care within a few days, there is a great risk that his life is beyond salvation. He has ended up in a political vendetta in Ethiopia where various ministers attack each other. He started the Swedish hospital over there for heart patients. Unfortunately, almost all of that business is down now because he's incarcerated.
i-3SyZcb7UKnyckSqDWt9aah	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Pethrus, for the question. This is an issue for which we have a common great concern. This concerns the state of health and the unsustainable situation of the doctor, Mr Fikru Maru, who has been in prison for such a long time in unclear circumstances. The Foreign Minister has personally engaged in the case and has had a very close and frequent contact with the Ethiopian Government on this issue and kept himself informed about the issue. The Swedish Embassy and the Swedish Consulate are at every service to help relatives and provide legal aid and so on to Fikru Maru so that the matter can be made as much easier for him as possible and for the relatives. Of course, we are also helpful in every way to ensure that he receives the medical care he needs.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It may not really calm me or the family, who are very worried in the near future. In any case, the media are talking about a few days in which his health may last. If he doesn't get the right care, he could die. It is a Swedish heart doctor who is well recognized in Sweden who is imprisoned in Ethiopia. Carl Bildt visited the former Swedish journalists. What's the government doing?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-276	Mr President, I would like to The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has been working very intensively on this issue ever since the case was brought up to date. There have been very close contacts from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs both from here in Stockholm and from the Embassy in Addis Abeba. Just as we do in all these matters, we try in every way to make it easier both publicly and under hand for Swedish citizens to be treated in a legally secure and good way.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-279	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. In the government's budget bill, the government says that both a flight tax and a kilometre tax will be introduced. The government is therefore not content with simply raising taxes on ordinary wage earners, but now also wants transport to be taxed. Mr President, I would like to This is the worst of two worlds, the eagerness of the Social Democrats to tax ordinary wage earners and the willingness of the Green Party to take punishment for everything that moves. The government seems to have forgotten that jobs mainly in rural areas depend on cheap and efficient transport. The mileage tax is hitting the country's 63,000 truck drivers. My question to the Minister is therefore: how does the kilometre tax contribute to achieving the government's goal of Sweden having the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-283	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Jessica Rosencrantz! Just before the summer, a united environmental policy preparation with broad support from the right to the left presented its proposals on how to switch Sweden to a fossil-free society. The transport sector is a very important sector. This means, of course, that we need to invest in infrastructure, but we also need other instruments to reduce the long-term emissions of climate gases from the transport sector. The Kilometer tax and the air tax are two examples of how we try to steer people's choices into more sustainable transport options. We are not only working on these issues, but we are also taking many other measures to facilitate, for example, haulage companies in Sweden. We have worked very hard there to create good social conditions and fair competition conditions, which is an equally important issue for road hauliers in Sweden to be competitive and we shall also be able to promote sustainable transport.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-287	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, we agree that there is much that we can and should do to ensure a good environment. However, these measures should aim to make our truck transports more efficient, for example. That is why we have tabled proposals for heavier lorries, for example. But the fact remains that Swedish hauliers live under great pressure. With government policy, 63 000 truck drivers are at risk of being hit hard by increased charges and taxes, and people in rural areas find it more difficult to get to work.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-289	Mr President, I would like to The proposal on which the investigation is concerned has not yet been put forward. It will come at the beginning of December and will then be referred back. It will of course be about designing such a tax in a way that promotes and ensures job growth and opportunities to live and live throughout the country. But we also need to take steps to steer towards more climate-friendly transport choices. It is inevitable that the cost is part of this. I'm really looking forward to suggestions from the Moderates.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-292	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Isabella Lövin. Fiscal policy is based a little on a basic principle: the state finances should go with plus, that is, surplus, when times are good to afford to go with minus when times are worse. In other words, you should go after the classic sticker, the one who saves, he has. In order to evaluate economic policy, we have independent expertise to review the government's budget. One who has done this is President of the Council of Finance Ministers, Harry Flam. He notes that the government is pursuing an unbalanced fiscal policy. Despite the boom, the government must now stand with its cap in hand and borrow SEK 16 billion to raise its budget. Even if the cost of migration is excluded, financial savings are deteriorating by all measures. My question to the Government is: Does the government have any limit on how much you are willing to debt the Swedes of future generations?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-295	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. When this government took office, the budget deficit was 70 billion, and we also saw huge deficits in investment in both welfare and infrastructure. Railway maintenance has been behind for at least eight years, and we have seen very great investment needs here. It is also about school staff, care for the elderly and all the services our citizens expect. Furthermore, while we have now managed to invest, we have reduced the budget deficit, and it will actually be wiped out before this term of office is over. It is a fiscal policy that is now being praised by the International Monetary Fund, which yesterday produced a report in which Sweden is rising in the index of competitiveness and responsible economic policy worldwide. That is something we are very proud of.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-297	Mr President, I would like to The Council of Finance Ministers believes that the government's forecasts for the next four years are mere joy calculations. In the same budget, Mr President, the government is in favour of aid efforts as well. But if you look closely, you can see that 8.1 billion of international aid does not even leave Sweden but is spent on receiving refugees at home. Why? Are there not people outside our borders who are in greater need of that aid? I am thinking mainly of women and children in and around Syria.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-299	Mr President, I would like to I am particularly pleased that it is a Swedish democrat who raises this issue because, unlike other parties in this Parliament, the Swedish Democrats do not allocate 1% of gross national income to aid that leaves the country, but only 0.7%. You have significantly lower aid to help people on the ground than we have, even though some of the money allocated to aid goes to help refugees who have come to our country. This is something that the Swedish people should understand.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-300	Mr President, I would like to My questions are addressed to the Minister for Housing and Digitalization. 1 million homes were built in Sweden between 1965 and 1974. Then, too, the lack of housing that existed because many people were able to move into new, modern homes could be overcome. Today, however, 40-50 years later, part of the million-programme construction is falling due to a lack of rehabilitation measures. The government announced at an early stage that climate-smart investments must be made in millions of programme areas in order, among other things, to create opportunities for increased satisfaction and security. The goal must be to continuously maintain the high and uniform Swedish housing standard.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-303	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We are taking general measures to contribute to increased housing construction and clear housing issues in Sweden right now. However, we are also committed to renovating and renovating existing homes, especially in the millions of programme areas. If we allow these areas to decay, they will not be able to remain as part of the housing stock in the long term. We need to make them more attractive and rebuild so that the people who live there can feel proud of their areas. The government's budget is SEK 1 billion each year for the renovation and reconstruction of the areas, and also money to ensure that the land around can be made more attractive and pleasant.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-305	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Another aspect of this is security issues, which have become the focus. Many residents experience anxiety and fear of living and staying in certain residential areas. One of the reasons for this is the increasingly obvious crime. Can the Minister mention some important measures taken or planned from the point of view of housing to address this problem?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-306	Mr President, I would like to The fact that some of the money we spend in the budget goes to make areas nicer, more beautiful and more attractive to be and enjoy for the residents is, of course, an important part of that policy. Then I do not agree that we generally have a trend towards more crime and more problems. It can be perceived as such, but I think it is partly a perversion.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-307	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin. The Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics today show two things: that the Alliance's school reforms are now starting to have an effect, but to get newly arrived students on to high school. This is a worrying development, to which the government has so far turned a blind eye. It worries us Moderates. We have put forward several proposals to improve teachers' skills in second language learning and to monitor more closely the knowledge development of newly arrived students. My question is therefore: with these statistics on the table, will the government put forward any new reforms to increase the chances of new arrivals succeeding in primary school?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-310	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Alexandra Anstrell, for the question. It is a very good news that came today, namely that upper secondary school qualifications are increasing among those who now finish primary school; at last this trend is reversed. This has not happened in a vacuum but has been about us investing in much more staff at school, 13 000 more educators, increased teacher salaries and more. It is now finally effective. What can be seen in the statistics is that the newly arrived young people who do not yet have a personal identity number are of course very bad. In contrast to the Moderates, the government continues to invest very large sums of money in the municipalities, so that they can employ more people, as well as on the professional adult and on the kind of compux that can especially support the new arrivals.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-313	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I note that we are both happy that the grades have turned around in terms of many students. But for those who are farthest away and have the hardest to pass school, things are going really badly. It feels as if the Government is not taking this seriously. That is why I wonder: What is the government really doing to ensure that more new arrivals make it to high school?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-314	Mr President, I would like to The government is investing a lot in fast track for new arrivals. Of course, for all the young people who have come and who have not passed the Swedish comprehensive school, we must have extra efforts. There, perhaps a professional adult or some other type of education that is part of the great leap in knowledge that the government has invested in will produce results. I note that the Moderates' budget exercise in the field of school is considerably less.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-317	Mr President, I would like to My question also goes to Minister for Development Isabella Lövin. On Monday last week, what was to be a cease-fire between the Syrian regime and parts of the armed opposition began. The relief convoys were ready to bring food, water and other supplies to particularly vulnerable areas and cities in Syria, where people are surrounded and isolated. It is quite clear that humanitarian law does not apply and that emergency broadcasts have been targeted in this war. The worst attack was on a convoy with emergency aid for over 78,000 people. My question is: how does this development affect Sweden's aid to Syria?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-321	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lawen Redar, for the question! We are shocked and strongly distance ourselves from the terrible violations of humanitarian law that are taking place more and more in the world. What has now happened to relief convoys with aid workers and humanitarian workers is absolutely detestable. Sweden is one of the largest donors to the UN's humanitarian system. We also give to the Red Cross and other organisations, where people with their own lives as a contribution give to those who are most vulnerable. We are working within the UN and also using diplomatic means to strengthen humanitarian law. We note that there are an increasing number of non-state actors involved in conflicts, such as ISIL, who do not respect humanitarian law, but also states.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-324	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. What is necessary now is also to ensure that Swedish aid does not fall into the hands of the wrong parties – the parties who commit these violations and war crimes in Syria. How can Sweden ensure that our assistance ends up in the right hands?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-325	Mr President, I would like to Sweden works through channels where there are monitoring mechanisms, so that it can never end up in the wrong hands. But of course the logic of war is terrible. We can never guarantee 100% that a relief convoy will not be hijacked or seized by any warring party. This has happened several times in history, and it will continue to happen, but it cannot stop us from helping people.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-327	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. The waiting times in healthcare are now growing and are extremely long. They have increased dramatically over the last two years. Every third patient has waited longer than the 90 days of the guarantee to receive their surgery or treatment. Today, the goal of the healthcare guarantee is about 65 per cent of all diagnoses, but for many – also vital – it is down to 50 per cent. Let me give you a few examples. The median waiting time for men affected by aggressive prostate cancer is from diagnosis to treatment almost six months. This means that almost half of the patients have to wait even longer. A week ago, we were able to witness an extremely tragic event in which a young person chose to take his own life. He had then waited a year and a half to come to psychiatry. I would say that the growing waiting times are a total disaster, first and foremost for the patients in question, but also for confidence in Swedish healthcare. My question is: what steps will the Government take to reverse this disastrous development?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-332	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that I fully share Per Ramhorn's view that this is very worrying for Swedish health care. In addition to general increases in funding for municipalities and county councils and targeted initiatives for county councils in the form of professional billions and investments in women's health, the government also provides measures directly aimed at the sickest patients to reduce queues, not least in cancer care. We are currently working together with Sweden's municipalities and county councils to develop a system of standardised care processes that will significantly reduce the number of patients from the time they have been suspected of a cancer tumor until they are treated. The system has already been tested in Denmark and Norway with good results. For this investment, we will contribute EUR 2 billion during the term of office.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-334	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Many of your efforts, I think, are good, but I do not think that the measures will go far enough. Several other countries have shorter care queues, including Denmark, as you mentioned. There is the vente guarantee, as it says, in most cases. Their waiting guarantee is in one month even for less serious diseases. 70 weeks of waiting for a hip joint, as it is here in Sweden, is completely unthinkable in Denmark. There are two to three weeks on average.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-336	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I believe that this problem must be tackled at the same time from many quarters. I believe that two underlying reasons are the lack of some key personnel, including specialist nurses, and that one needs to update one's routines and organisation. I visited Lindesberg's hospital last Monday in Örebro County, which has managed very well to shorten waiting times and also doubled the number of operations per year. That's very interesting.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-339	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Minister Lövin a question. It is just over a week since the Red-Green Government presented its budget. Personally, I was very pleased with it, and it was gratifyingly big investments in the climate and the environment. But there has also been quite a lot of criticism and writing that most of the investments are beyond the 2018 elections. My question to the Government is whether this is correct.
i-5q9ipK76FsYPjkzKdqW3c5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Nohrén, for the question! The Red Green Government is extremely proud that the increase in the 2017 environmental and climate budget is 73%, and we are talking about the increase from 2014 until now. So it is not a future effort that this increase is all about, but the increase we see if we compare with the average of alliance policies in the field of environment and climate change and the budget of the Minister for the Environment. It's 73% bigger today. In total, the government will invest EUR 25 billion in environmental and climate action during this term of office. When we then make budget presentations, we also make presentations of what we think about later on. There are therefore also initiatives up to 2020 that are very important.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-343	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister Lövin! I wonder: how will people notice these efforts in their everyday lives? What's the effect on all of us out here?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-344	Mr President, I would like to Two of the initiatives, Climate change and the urban environment agreements, are those that have a direct impact on municipalities and regions throughout the country. Wherever I go – I was in Gävle yesterday – money from the Climate Centre has made it possible to invest in charging poles for electric cars and biogas plants, so that we can switch to a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Falun has also invested in the world's first climate-smart data center.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-345	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. We have discussed the transport sector and its environmental impact in the past. There is a huge environmental and societal benefit to make use of by enabling transport with heavier, longer and more transport efficient vehicles on the Swedish road and rail network. While using spare capacity – optimally exploited – climate gas emissions are dramatically reduced. Competitiveness and the ability to pay for good social conditions are also growing with increased transport efficiency. A number of studies show that this is a low-hanging fruit if one has the ambition to increase transport efficiency and get better social conditions and a better environment on the goods side. I have a question for Minister Johansson. In principle, legislation is in place in the case of heavy goods vehicles, 74 tonnes. What prevents Minister Johansson from presenting a bill or regulation so that this becomes a reality immediately?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-347	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for the question! Yes, this is a part of how we should overall redesign the transport sector in order to make it more sustainable for the future. There we need to work on a wide range of measures. We need to expand the infrastructure. We need to maintain the infrastructure we have. We will need instruments that make it more beneficial to choose more climate-smart alternatives. However, we also need to focus on improving the efficiency of transport operations. In its background report to the Government, the Finnish Transport Agency states very clearly that there is a need to further strengthen the four-step principle in the planning work. It is about first of all seeing whether the need can be met in a different way, and then it goes all the way to building new infrastructure, so to speak. Making these efficiency improvements in existing transport is a very good way to reduce transport work without reducing transport as such. We have already taken measures for longer trains.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-350	Mr President, I would like to I choose to interpret the Minister positively until I have been proven otherwise. I think that is a good principle. There are also great gains to be made with longer vehicle combinations. At the moment there is only one attempt – it is in northern Sweden, in the Piteå area – with a 30-metre combination. They are currently awaiting permission from the government to proceed. Otherwise, the experiment ends at the turn of the year. It would be deeply tragic for Swedish industry, the Swedish automotive industry and those industries and entrepreneurs who have invested a lot of money in developing modern and smart technology. When's the permit coming?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-352	Mr President, I would like to We have already taken steps to enable longer and heavier trains to operate on the Swedish rail network. This is important not least for the link with the rest of Europe. But, of course, we are also looking at how we can make truck traffic more efficient. In large parts of the country it is not possible to drive goods either by train or by sea, even if we like to see a transfer. We shall, however, ensure that the measures we take do not mean a transfer from shipping and trains to road. Therefore, we need to be a little careful when making changes.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-354	Mr President, I would like to I also have a question for Minister of Infrastructure and Minister of Transport Anna Johansson. Of course, we fully agree that we need to focus on the maintenance of existing infrastructure, not least rail. It was also – we can see it a little bit historically – a very big focus for the Liberals and the Alliance during the period 2006– 2014. In fact, if we are to be historically correct, the maintenance to rail during that time doubled, from just under 4 billion to just over 8 billion. We can see the fruit of that today. Those of us who ride trains notice that there is a lot of work to be done. This may be perceived as a short-term obstacle, but of course it is positive in a different sense. But now there is a lot of effort in the budget – it was mentioned earlier. But they're very far ahead. The emphasis is on 2019 and 2020. Then you can think: It is another term of office, and hopefully it is another government. What are the lines of thinking about the fact that it is so far ahead?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-356	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Tysklind, for the question! The government has not waited to make great efforts for the next term of office. On the contrary, we already added EUR 1.24 billion more to rail maintenance in our first budget. Now it was unfortunate that that budget did not go through, but we managed to scrape up half of it. The years after that we have added SEK 1.34 billion per year to railway maintenance. That's a lot of money, and they're doing a lot of good out there in our railroad system. Then I think Lars Tysklind knows that infrastructure is planned every four years in the form of a new framework for the next planning period. This means, of course, that when we look forward, we are building on an assumption of how we envisage the framework for the next planning period. It is difficult for us to influence this period. However, in the budgets we have put forward over these years, we have provided funds for railway maintenance, and we continue to do so.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-358	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that clarification. However, the general discussion still talks about these efforts. I went up here today because I feel that there was a wrong history when it was just said in the debate that there had been no railway maintenance for eight years. The fact remains: the Alliance government and the Liberals doubled railway maintenance between 2006 and 2014.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-359	Mr President, I would like to Yes, and it was good that you finally woke up from the Sleeping Beauty, where the Minister of Finance claimed that we had overinvested in rail, and that you finally realised that action was needed. We're happy about that. We continue along this path and increase the level of ambition further, because it needs Swedish rail.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-360	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. Next week, the EU and Afghanistan will hold a joint summit in Brussels. It is an important meeting, because the security situation in Afghanistan is deteriorating. It is becoming increasingly difficult for aid organisations to operate, and we see that many of the progress achieved through civil aid efforts are now under threat. Yesterday, The Guardian published a leaked so-called non-paper from the Commission, which showed that the EU wants to use its aid to Afghanistan to blackmail the government in Kabul in receiving deported refugees. Unless Kabul receives 80 000 deported Afghan refugees from the EU, the EU threatens to withdraw aid to one of the poorest countries in the world.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-363	Mr President, I would like to Here I want to be very clear. Sweden does not make aid conditional in this way. Afghanistan is the largest aid country with which Sweden cooperates – development cooperation. We have already made a commitment that is the longest any donor country has made in Afghanistan: until 2025. It is important, we see, to build a stable society. Unfortunately, we now see that the security situation is worse since the troops withdrew. And not least, the economy has gone very much worse when the large foreign troops have withdrawn. Unemployment is growing. We need to remain here in order to prevent people from being forced to flee in the long term because of war or perhaps for economic reasons, that they cannot actually survive in their own country. Sweden has been very committed to Afghanistan for a long time, and civil society is active. And we will continue to be.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-366	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its very clear answer. I hope that the Government is now prepared to act at EU level so that the EU does not make its aid to Afghanistan conditional. Both I and Isabella Lövin have visited Afghanistan. After my visit to the country, I cannot see how the government in Kabul should have the ability or the capacity to provide security and a humane existence for deported refugees. Does Isabella Lövin share my picture, or does Lövin believe that the Afghan Government has the capacity and ability to receive 80 000 deported refugees from the EU?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-368	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is true that I have been to Afghanistan talking to civil society organisations, the government and the authorities at various levels. It is a country with huge challenges, not least security challenges now that Taliban troops are actually advancing. It's hard. At the same time, it is clear that the right of asylum should apply. Each country has a responsibility for its citizens, but to deport...
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-370	Mr President, I would like to Here we change the subject quickly. My question goes to Minister of Health Gabriel Wikström. The Alliance government invested a great deal in inter-departmental interaction. I usually work with cultural issues, but during the alliance period, the Minister of Health collaborated very effectively with the Minister of Culture. Successful examples are Creative School and also Sports Lift. The Minister for Health has been very active in the debate about children's movement and that it is important to move around. My question to the Government concerns culture and health. What initiatives does the government intend to develop for culture and health? We can use culture very much for increased health in the population.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-373	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Cecilia Magnusson! I fully agree that culture is extremely important to health. In particular, we know from recent years of research that people's status in society – how to view themselves and the environment and influence both the local environment and society at large – is crucial to health status. This is particularly true in terms of life expectancy. The government is making a number of investments in the cultural sector. One of the most debated has been free admission to state museums – a fantastic reform offering not least children and young people from less well-off homes the opportunity to enjoy our rich, fantastic cultural heritage. We also make investments in school and at the cultural school and have a broad funding for the culture to benefit as many people as possible and among other things contribute to better health.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister, even if I did not receive an answer to the question! Free admission to museums is of course beneficial for Stockholmers and travelling but not for other people in our country. But culture and health were the question, such as culture for the elderly. We in the Alliance government set aside considerable sums of money to allow older people to retain their abilities by means of culture. We also had culture on prescriptions. Are you going to do something?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-378	Mr President, I would like to I think, Cecilia Magnusson, that I have answered the question! It is clear that the cultural initiatives taken by the government have many different aims. One of these aims is to improve people's well-being and thus also to improve health. I think that we need to look at the wide-ranging work on health in exactly that way. How can we coordinate what we do in different sectors in order to contribute to better health in the population? That is the government's objective.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-381	Mr President, I would like to Much is happening in digitalization, not least in the areas for which Minister Gabriel Wikström is responsible. It is of great importance for efficiency – and also for the future financing of welfare – that we make the best use of new technologies and that public activities work as smartly as possible. It is therefore with some disappointment that I note that the government in its budget proposal does not seem to have any concrete proposals to ensure that Sweden has not only a vision, but that there is also a realistic possibility of implementing it. Cooperation with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils is important, but at the same time a national action plan is needed so that what needs to be coordinated and addressed nationally is also handled in this way. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: have I missed anything in the budget? If not – how does Gabriel Wikström believe that we can use the opportunities of digitalisation to promote good quality and improved efficiency in health care as well as in health care?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-385	Mr President, I would like to The answer to Anette Åkesson's first question is: Yes, she has missed something in the budget! Among other things, we set aside money for a professional billion. One of three priority areas is e-Health. I totally agree with Anette Åkesson. If we can improve e‐health in Swedish healthcare, we not only have a great efficiency gain to make, but we can also safeguard patient safety and harness resources – including human resources – in a much better way. The government is currently developing, together with SKL, a new governance model for e‐health. We are also developing a new action plan that will specifically specify the steps to be taken to meet the vision that 2025 will be the country that best exploits the opportunities of digitalisation in healthcare. We are also making concrete legislative changes. I hope that later this autumn we will be able to present a change of law that means that we will have a common list of medicines, something that has been requested for a long time in Swedish healthcare.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-389	Mr President, I would like to I found these and some other fine words, but in the budget document the word digitization only gave four hits. Nor does it change the fact that things must also happen in a practical way. If social democrats and environmentalists do not even intend to develop a national action plan, how will the work be done and coordinated? In addition, many relevant projects are successfully implemented in the country, but the implementation is not continued nationally. How does the Government intend to ensure that this happens?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-391	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that one can base one's criticism of the government on a text search in a document, but one must actually look at what we have produced. What we have done is – in addition to the number of agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council where we have added money – that we have announced that there will be a concrete action plan in the near future. From what I understand, this is exactly what Anette Åkesson is asking for, so I understand that we agree on both the possibilities of digitalisation and the need to act quickly.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-393	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Development Isabella Lövin. We all know that the situation in the world is appalling in many ways. Many people are on the run and, above all, many children are suffering. In the autumn budget there is an important effort to help children escape in the coming years, which makes me very proud. But can the Minister for Development tell us a little more about what specific initiatives are planned?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-396	Mr President, I would like to The need for humanitarian aid has increased apace over the last five years. The appeals of the United Nations have only been answered by barely half. In the government's autumn change budget that we have now submitted, we were able to allocate EUR 2 1⁄2 billion in particular to humanitarian purposes, of which half a billion specifically to UNICEF. UNICEF is the organisation that contributes to schooling in refugee camps and to refugee children. Half of the world's refugees are children, while one third of the world's population are children, so proportionally the proportion of children in the refugee population is larger than in the population as a whole. It is particularly important that we ensure that we do not lose these generations of children.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-398	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I also wonder if there are any particular ideas on how to help children on the run to go to school. We have seen, at least in my municipality of residence Norberg, how incredibly important it is for children who have been torn out of their everyday lives to get into some kind of normality and to continue their teaching. Does the government have such efforts?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-399	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. As the humanitarian appeals are so underfunded – and here Sweden is one of the ten countries in the world that accounts for 90% of humanitarian funding – you start with tents, shelters, blankets and food. Education and social work come further down the list. That is why we have specifically given money to UNICEF. It is the organisation that provides training in refugee situations. In Syria, however, it is difficult.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-401	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. At the beginning of this month the Småland Post wrote that the Minister does not want to see mandatory TB tests on asylum seekers. This statement was made in connection with the detection of tuberculosis in a home for unaccompanied refugee children. It turned out that most of those tested positive had not undergone a health check or other tests on arrival in Sweden. The placement of vectors with healthy residents is hardly appropriate from a disease-protection point of view. Therefore, my question is to the Government: what measures does the Government intend to take to increase the proportion of people undergoing health examinations so that we can catch potential vectors at an early stage?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-404	Mr President, I would like to Since last autumn, when a very large number of asylum seekers came to Sweden, the government has taken a wide range of measures to increase the number of health checks and improve the flow through. It has been about everything from introducing coordination numbers to make healthcare easier to keep track of patients, to simplifying those types of controls at the stages where it is possible to simplify. We have also discovered that the operations in many county councils have been substandard for a number of years, but it has now begun to become more efficient when we have seen that the needs have increased. This has also led to an increase in throughput. Of course, the Public Health Agency has looked closely at the risk of TB proliferation, and it is noted that it continues to be low. It is precisely targeted health surveillance and targeted actions that are the effective way to prevent the spread of TB.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-407	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I think it's the right idea. Nevertheless, it is important that health examinations are carried out at an early stage after arrival. In the present case, sick children have been placed with healthy children. As a result, some have been infected. Every infected child is a failure.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-409	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with the latter. A wide range of measures have been taken by county councils and by the state to improve access to health surveillance. There is a noticeable improvement. The most important thing now is to follow the recommendations of the Public Health Agency and the infectious disease doctors around the country, namely not to run away and demand mandatory controls – which is also a constitutional violation.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-412	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister Gabriel Wikström. Today, the government has decided to present the bill Increased availability of syringe exchange operations in Sweden. But this opportunity has existed for many years in Sweden. Nevertheless, only seven receptions have been introduced in four county councils. How will the proposal allow syringe exchange activities to reach those who really need it? It is both humanitarian and disease-protection-efficient.
i-Fc5Ecqq6XUB6bo8iRjzJXN	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Dahlqvist, for the question! It is true that the possibility of offering syringe exchange activities has existed for a very long time, but there has been a requirement that county councils must agree with the municipality where the syringe exchange operations are to be located. It has obviously meant that the business has not got started in many places. What the government is doing now is putting responsibility entirely on the side of the county councils. It is entirely in accordance with other responsibilities for disease protection, which is entirely on the county councils' side. The positive thing is that a rounding that Swedish Radio has done has shown that virtually all county councils are planning or discussing to introduce spray exchange activities. I hope that with the bill we can see a sharp increase in syringe exchange operations across the country.
i-DM2zvRaRBJc8C7BfmWy5Wi	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gabriel Wikström, for answering the question! My supplementary question, of course, is: how can we ensure that the municipalities continue to engage in this issue, and how do we take advantage of their opportunities?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-418	Mr President, I would like to There will continue to be a requirement that county councils consult the municipalities in their areas before starting syringe exchange activities. There are already requirements for county councils and municipalities to sign coordination agreements for the care and treatment of people who are in abuse and addiction. Through the agreements, municipalities are given every opportunity to continue to have an influence on the parts related to the care and treatment of addicts.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-419	Mr President, I would like to The question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. Information in the media has shown that aid funds have been used for Sweden's campaign for a place in the UN Security Council. Conferences whose purpose has been to be part of the campaign have been paid with funds that have not been reported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. How has the Minister of Aid further contributed from his spending area to the campaign? Should not the costs I have referred to be accounted for as campaign costs? Can the Government guarantee that no other foundations or funds have been used in the campaign as reported in the media?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-422	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question – although I am a little surprised that it is coming now because the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I have accounted for the costs of the campaign for the Committee on Foreign Affairs. All costs are fully transparent. What has been reported in newspapers earlier this year has been about things that fall within the scope of aid activities. There has been nothing out of the ordinary for aid money, such as conferences and inviting participants from developing countries. The alliance government also held major conferences in Stockholm, for example on SRHR issues. It's nothing strange. We are proud that Sweden will now be represented in the UN Security Council from 1 January and thus have the opportunity to influence.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-425	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The most important thing is that the Government now guarantees that no other foundations or funds were used in the campaign in the way reported in the media. I and the others take note of this, and I thank you for your answer.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-427	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to add that we, on behalf of Sweden, should be extremely proud of the confidence shown by the rest of the world when Sweden was voted into the Security Council in the first round of the UN General Assembly. 134 countries voted for Sweden in front of the Netherlands and Italy. We have run a fair campaign, as we have shown with our genuine solidarity on issues of aid and foreign policy.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-428	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. This week, SL, the head of public transport in Stockholm, presented its interim report. It shows, fortunately, that the subway has good punctuality – even if the travellers are like packed herrings. The book also showed that there are major problems with the punctuality of buses. In an article in the big morning newspapers, the Transport Council, also moderate, seems to be mainly blaming many different actors, including the government.
i-V3G7K4Re2yDJPbPZB96N27	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Teres Lindberg, for the question. The tendency shown in the article referred to, to set different senders against each other, is extremely unfortunate. It is important that we, who have political positions of trust, also look at the need for the whole of our country to live and contribute to the common welfare and development of Sweden. Track maintenance is an important part of the accessibility of commuter trains in particular. That's where the state is responsible. This is why the government has contributed large amounts of money to railway maintenance – SEK 1.34 billion per year in 2016, 2017 and 2018 as well as additional funds in the next planning period. Most people involved in transport policy know that a national plan is decided every four years. Last time it was 2014. These are the means on which transport policy is based.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-435	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The article focuses on the lack of accessibility for buses. As the Minister says, it may not be the government's primary responsibility. In concrete terms, the county council in Stockholm has withdrawn 100 bus lines, which does not benefit the accessibility of the Stockholms. I note that it is a matter of concern that the principals responsible put aside questions that are their own.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-438	Mr President, I would like to Many of the major maintenance and construction projects under way, including Citybanan, Årstatunneln and a lot more, are based around the Stockholm area – because there are large traffic volumes here. The municipal, regional and state road network needs to be maintained. But I dare say that when it comes to bus accessibility, perhaps the state is not the first one to turn to. For example, the state co-finances the extension of the subway.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-442	Mr President, I would like to The housing shortage has developed in recent years into a housing crisis that not only prevents young people from leaving home, students to find student housing and asylum seekers to start a new life. It also affects women who seek their way away from their abusive husbands. I visit many women's shelters around the country and did so last Monday together with Elsa and Elin from Knut Hahn High School in Ronneby who practice at my place this week. Even then, the problem and the desire to stay on the ground when it comes to creating housing came to light. It is not only a lack of shelter – you have to say no to two out of three applicants – but also problems with locking up.
i-3LzSJ3qCgbmioo7cZdqecb	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Annicka Engblom! The housing shortage has not happened in the last two three years, but has developed over 20 years. For a long time we have been building at a much lower rate than population growth. Today we are facing a huge problem, and this gradual development must be addressed. The good thing about the situation is that today we are building considerably more than before and have twice as many new apartments as a couple of years ago when we had another government. My picture is that it is primarily because there is a greater political commitment in the municipalities that there is now much more being built.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-447	Mr President, I would like to I'm surprised at the answer. That's not the picture I get from the women's shelters. The Alliance invested a lot in finding at least temporary accommodation – it takes time to build – by enabling second-hand rental. The government has mentioned subletting in its budget but has not changed a single regulatory framework. Is the Minister of Housing prepared to do so shortly so that these women do not have to return home to their abusive husbands?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-450	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we will put forward proposals that will enable us to use the existing housing stock more effectively. What concerns me is that, for example, the Moderates have rather a policy in which they want to withdraw and reduce efforts. Today, we have taken decisions by the government on regulations regarding investment aid in new rental housing, which may be important, on reasonable terms for, for example, vulnerable women. But the Moderates want to take that away.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-453	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister Gabriel Wikström. One area of care where there are clear problems, not least in Stockholm, is maternity care. During the summer several prospective parents have been referred to other counties. There is still a shortage of midwives, a high workload and a lack of support after home from BB in areas such as breast-feeding and women's mental and physical health. The situation is still strained. Not being able to follow guidelines, to have so much to do that the care is not patient-proof and not being able to give good guidance to students is becoming normal.
i-8CWCdS851hepzZAwvmBYLr	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Vikström, for the question! Anna Vikström says that there are major problems in maternity care in different parts of the country. The biggest problems are perhaps here in Stockholm County Council, where bourgeois government has for a long time been playing experimental workshop with, among other things, maternity care in the form of introducing market solutions that have proved to be ineffective. From the government's side, we take the situation very seriously and are therefore making a historic commitment to women's health and, in particular, to maternity care. This year we are talking about half a billion going to, among other things, increased skills provision in maternity care but also to resources that can be used for better dissemination of knowledge. One big issue that many women are worried about is birth defects. Here we know that if the recent knowledge could be used to a greater extent in the business, these damages could be avoided.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-460	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister of Housing. Today, after a year and a half, the government has presented its proposal for investment aid, which is criticised by both industry and research. Yet you have persisted. However, I was very surprised to hear that one of the criteria for the retroactive support is to ensure that high-income people do not live in these apartments for 15 years. I ask my question on that basis. So you have to bypass queues. Should people be forced to move when they get higher income? Is this a way of abandoning general housing policy? My question to the Minister is this: what are the reasons why you have come to this conclusion?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-464	Mr President, I would like to That is not quite true, as Mrs Ewa Thalén says. The decision that we in the government have taken today concerns two regulations. One applies from 1 January onwards, an investment aid, and one applies retroactively from the time when the promise to set up aid for newly built rental housing was issued, which was in March 2015. The retroactive aid is different from the forward-looking aid. It is the latter that Ewa Thalén Finné refers to. This support means that there will be a mixed group of people in the homes being built, but it requires that those in the gender with the greatest need also have a greater opportunity to access these homes.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-466	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Development. "Maybe I will be murdered," said Ethiopian Olympic runner Feyisa Lilesa when he raised and crossed his arms. He did so as an act of solidarity and a gesture in support of those killed or imprisoned following protests against the Ethiopian regime. He thus stood in the ranks of people who are risking their own lives to pay attention to what is happening in Ethiopia right now. What, then, is happening in Ethiopia? There is currently an open uprising in the country. Civil protests meet with artillery fire. Sweden gives 300 million SEK in aid to Ethiopia, certainly not directly to the regime but nonetheless. I therefore ask the Minister for Development how she views the violent developments in Ethiopia and whether she sees any possibility of using part of the aid to build up a democratic opposition in the country.
i-BsBVXUZdhGaswE4NbpMWmo	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Österberg, for the question! The Government absolutely shares the concerns expressed by Anders Österberg regarding developments in Ethiopia and the violence that has taken place in some parts of the country. More than 400 have been killed in protests against land reform. Ethiopia is one of the countries that has been receiving our assistance for the longest time. We work a lot to strengthen civil society and democratic forces. That is part of our aid. The second part is about helping people, especially women, to find economic employment. This is also to be seen in the light of El Niño and the famine that has struck the country over the past year due to the terrible drought. We are engaged in a continuous dialogue with the Government of Ethiopia on this. We have also very strongly emphasised our concern for this development and we are engaged in dialogue on these issues.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-473	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin. The Division Committee has proposed that Sweden be divided into six different regions. It's a process that's gone pretty fast. The proposal came before the summer and landed somewhere at Midsummer on the table in all our municipalities and county councils. They want referrals on the proposal in mid-October. The work is in full swing in our regions and municipalities to come up with answers to the proposal. They will, of course, look at the impact this will have on their municipalities, county councils and regions. My question to the Government is: how will the increased centralisation that we will see in our regions create jobs and growth throughout the country? Has the perspective of the whole country been looked at, what the proposal actually means? We are already one of the world's most urbanised societies.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-477	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Olsson for the question. I believe that all of us in the Swedish parliament and in the government are fully united in our concern for the whole of Sweden to be able to live and that you can live everywhere in Sweden and have access to the social services that everyone has a right to. What we are looking at now is to ensure that all citizens have access to the standard and high levels of public service that they need. Then, of course, we will listen to the consultation bodies and to the concerns raised, so that it will be as good as possible. Ultimately, it is about streamlining and ensuring that you can have a good life throughout Sweden and get access to good public services.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-479	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. During the spring and especially the summer there was a rather lively media debate about parking permits for disabled people. Many of us are also municipal representatives and are aware of the problems encountered in many municipalities in dealing with this. Then I am thinking of the possibility of preventing abuse. I know the government has been working on this issue for a long time. The former alliance government also worked on it. Unfortunately, it didn't come out much of it then. But I know that things have now happened. My question to the Minister for Infrastructure is: how will it be easier for municipalities to curb the abuse of parking permits by people who do not really need them?
i-DVhCBNb44c3bp1j85FduWD	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Andersson, for the question! It is a major and growing problem, at least as described by disability organisations. It's about trade – selling your proper parking license to people who don't need it – and foreign fake permits and so on. There is a flora of strangeness where, although you are fully healthy and have the opportunity to park in a regular parking lot and pay for it, you take advantage of this possibility. Today, the government has taken two decisions that will help municipalities to curb this. The first is that we increase the maximum fine for parking with unauthorised permission from 1 000 to 1 300 SEK. It is, of course, aimed at making it more dissuasive. The second, which is perhaps even more deterrent, is that the municipality is now given the right to move cars with false parking permits at the expense of the car owner.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-486	Then I would like to thank the participating ministers and Members for an active and rap Question Time. That concludes Question Time.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-487	Mr President, I would like to We debated wealth tax and interest rebates before we paused for Question Time. Just before we did, we heard the Minister of Finance give a tribute speech to the Swedish economy. I can only agree. The Swedish economy is doing very well. What is strange is that we heard a Minister of Finance who, just a few years ago, when she was in the opposition, described the Swedish economy as almost free-fall. But now, after she has got her budget through and let it work for just under six months, she wants to put the picture that it is thanks to her and her government that Sweden is doing so well. Sweden is doing well because we had a responsible alliance government and also because we had a responsible Social Democratic government with Göran Persson as Prime Minister, who implemented important structural reforms that improved the nutrient climate in Sweden, made it more profitable to work and so on. If you look, however, at this Social Democratic government – which seems to have more of the idea of going back to the Social Democratic approach of the 1980s and 1970s to politics – you can see that it's only about raising taxes and raising subsidies. There is nothing in the government's policy that is actually about structurally improving the Swedish economy. On the contrary, there is strong criticism from the Council of Finance Ministers and the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs, both of which believe that we are talking about at least 20 000 fewer jobs structurally with government policy, i.e. when you take out the effect of both economic boom and recession. The only thing we can say is that Magdalena Andersson has not crashed the Swedish economy during her short time as Minister of Finance. That is a good thing, although, as I have said, there is much criticism of the policies that have been pursued. This applies not least to the fact that we are not saving in good times to meet bad times. But what this debate was specifically about was precisely the wealth tax and the interest rebates. We know that if the wealth tax were to be reintroduced – which Magdalena Andersson's coalition partner The Left Party is pushing strongly – it will mean that money will flee the country. Money that could have been invested in different types of operations here in Sweden would leave the country and be useful in some other part of the world. The interest rebates would hit ordinary households heavily. Families with children, in particular, would be affected. According to media data, the Minister of Finance has attempted to reduce interest rates. We have had environmental ministers who have said that it would be good if we could remove the interest deduction. Above all, it is the Left Party that is pressing in the budget talks on these issues. It would hit the Swedish economy hard. It would hit consumption, and it would further reinforce the negative economic effects that this government has contributed to. We should remember that Sweden is doing well now because we have a previously well-run economy and have a boom. But the boom will not last forever. Then we need to be equipped. So far, everything that this government has done is to worsen Sweden's conditions to face a forthcoming recession. When we hear from the Minister for Finance that she has no proposals on property tax and interest rebates, then we know that it usually comes a year afterwards, because that is how it has worked. When she said she wasn't going to introduce gas taxes, nag RUT and ROT at the edge and raise taxes for ordinary people, it happened a few years later.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-498	Mr President, I would like to I am a little fascinated both by the Minister for Finance's last speech and by the Deputy Prime Minister's speech during Question Time. It boasts of all the successes that Sweden has had in the past year – that unemployment is falling and that employment is increasing. Even the percentage of qualified in upper secondary school has increased, the Deputy Prime Minister explained that the government has made such a big effort. It is absolutely amazing that the results for a person who has been in school for nine years in just six months are turned into something completely different, without the government's policy even coming into force. Yet you take credit for this. It's absolutely fascinating, I think. Your budget has been in force for nine months. The Alliance's budget has been in force for nine years. There's quite a difference. We should be happy, just as Fredrik Schulte described here, that we had such a wise government that conducted such a good policy. You can live on that for maybe another year. Then we'll see what happens. Magdalena Andersson spoke in the election movement about the empty barns. I would like to ask her if she thinks they have become more well-filled today. Today, in a boom, we have deficits in public finances. We also have a negative interest rate. What are we going to do if we get a new driver in the world economy, as Magdalena Andersson warned today in the Committee on Finance? What's the government gonna do? There are no margins at all. Also: What about the guarantee? Can we get an explicit promise from Magdalena Andersson that there will be no new wealth tax during this term of office? It's easy to say: No, it won't. I promise you. Can we have this message now?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-504	Mr President, I would like to In this House, questions of wealth tax and interest rebates may sometimes be felt far away. But the truth is, that is not the reality of many voters. For a great many people in this elongated country, housing is the largest asset. The greatest risk and cost also apply to the dwelling. For voters with small margins there is a great deal of uncertainty, and an enormous amount of stress is created in everyday life when they do not know what applies from a political point of view. The Minister of Finance has so far not clearly wanted to declare how it views the wealth tax and interest rebates in the future. It's problematic. When the Finance Minister's own government base in the Left Party goes out loud and clearly declaring and demanding both the reintroduction of the wealth tax and the abolition of the interest rebates, it naturally creates enormous concern among the many people who realise that this would hit them extremely hard. They would have an increased cost for their accommodation, and there is also a great potential risk that this accommodation will count as a fortune. They would have to take both blows of such a change. It doesn't really matter if they get to take both hits. It's enough for them to take one blow to ruin the family's finances. Of course, it creates a tremendous amount of stress and pressure. All the families and people who, due to a dysfunctional housing market, have been forced to pay high prices for their homes, in order to be in areas where it is possible to find a job at all, have done so under the assumption that the state is living up to the commitments made by the state. Right now, people can't know what that promise is really worth. In fact, they deserve an answer. Can they receive a guarantee valid until the 2018 elections that a Social Democratic government does not mean a reintroduction of the wealth tax and does not mean a reintroduction of the interest rebates? It would also be nice if they could get a promise for the future after 2018, so that they can make their decision for the 2018 elections with this information if they can imagine that it is reasonable to ever in the future allow the Social Democrats to hold government power.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-510	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates want me to provide information and guarantees for many mandates ahead. But then perhaps someone will be able to answer my question about what will be in the Moderate Budget Movement next week that you will propose to restore the escalation of the job tax deduction that we have proposed and which the Moderates here in the speaker's chair have often said does not give any money and would have terrible effects. Someone may also be able to answer if the Moderates in their budget motion will also suggest that the indexed breakpoint, which we did not fully write up at the turn of the year, will be taken back. Fredrik Schulte says that we only raise taxes and do nothing structural to improve the Swedish economy. If you have the view – as Moderates often have – that the only structurally correct measures are to reduce tax, it is perhaps less of such measures in this budget than in moderate budgets, where you usually borrow for large unfunded tax cuts. It's not like we're just raising taxes. We're cutting taxes, too. This applies, among other things, when you get your first job. We also extend the ROT deduction. There are two examples of tax cuts in this budget. In addition, we lower the tax on repairing things to get away from the slit-and-slip economy and instead stimulate a circular economy. We are also making other important structural changes to improve the Swedish economy. We improve matching in the labour market by training the unemployed so that they can take the jobs that are now emerging. In particular, vocational training is central, as there is a shortage of nurses, child-careers, electricians, construction workers and many others because the Moderate Government did not provide for the equipping of the unemployed during the recession. That is why we are seeing a shortage of labour at an early stage in this economic upturn. We also invest heavily in infrastructure, broadband and in research and development. Fredrik Schulte warns that the Green Party and the Left Party want to do something about the interest rebates. But Fredrik Schulte may then also warn about himself, since he has written a motion in the Riksdag that the interest rebates should be changed. I would also like to remind you that perhaps we should warn the Liberals, who have proposed today that the interest rebates should be changed and who would like to settle with the government on this issue. As far as interest rebates are concerned, it is important to say that the government has been clear. We don't have any suggestions. We now want to see that we have the effect of the amortisation requirements that have just been introduced and that so far seem to have been dampening in the housing market. We have also taken many other measures to speed up housing construction so that price increases in the housing market, partly driven by housing shortages, can be mitigated. Among other things, we have made the biggest investment of 20 years in housing construction. We also have a 22-point program that affects renting and access to building clear land and accelerates processing times and enables series production of houses. We have also taken a number of other measures. It is sad that the Moderates want to lower the ambitions of this housing policy initiative. It would, of course, risk aggravating household indebtedness and reducing housing construction. But we are taking important steps to overcome this. But here you have to follow developments. If house prices and household indebtedness go off in a way that is not sustainable, one as a responsible government must be prepared to take further action. We are clear that we are prepared to do so. At this stage, we will see what measures are being taken. We have not gone to elections on any proposals on the wealth tax, which we could get the impression of in previous speeches. These are not proposals that we have put forward from the government.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-517	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by saying that I shall not speak for the Liberals, but I can speak for myself. The difficult entry values were that we are open to removing the interest rebates if you lower the tax for ordinary people. You cannot just remove them and invest in subsidies, as the Social Democrats would like, but it is precisely about compensating for this tax increase with a tax reduction. The Moderates are actually proposing a series of tax increases. In the past week, it has been announced that we are proposing, for example, an increase in VAT. Our motto is that we are open to tax increases. But it should be tax increases that do not harm the economy. When we raise these taxes, we will use them to reduce taxes that actually harm the economy. The Minister of Finance uses the reverse logic: she raises taxes that harm the economy. She increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship so that people work less and start fewer companies. Then she lowers taxes on things that do not affect the economy. This is a strange logic. The interesting thing about this debate is that it is a government of betrayal that we have. It is a government that promised that it would not touch the RUT and the ROT, which promised that it would not increase the petrol tax, that it would not touch the surplus target and that promised not to increase the tax for ordinary people. But as soon as Magdalena Andersson became Minister of Finance, she changed from being against these things to saying that she has no proposals. When you hear the Minister for Finance say that she has no proposals, you should be very afraid that these proposals will come because that is what then happened. What was not any proposals then became a petrol tax increase, there was then a nagging at the edge of ROT and RUT, there was then a tax increase for ordinary people working and there was then a liquidation of the previous surplus target. The fact that we have a situation with an unreliable Minister of Finance who is dishonest and unable to give straight answers is very worrying.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-521	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister of Finance very much for the answer, although there was not really a lot of answers, but only a lot more questions. It is certainly the case that the Minister of Finance is cordially welcome to the Parliament to ask questions to Members, but it would be nice if the Minister of Finance started by actually answering the questions she has been called to answer. Both the wealth tax and, above all, the interest rebates have a tremendous impact on people's everyday economy. People deserve to know what actually applies to the future. The voters who have bought a villa for about 5 million – to be honest, it is quite modest in this part of the country; you get all the more at my home in Nyköping, but it is still not enough directly to a large mansion – and have a loan rate of 80 per cent, with abolished interest rebates, would have increased costs directly. With today's low interest rate, it would be 60 000 SEK a year. It is a fairly significant cost that would hit people's economies hard. People deserve to be allowed to say what they can expect so that they can actually plan for the future and make their own decisions according to the rules of the game. This does not mean that today's interest rebates should be cut in stone forever, but voters deserve to know what applies during the current term of office, and during the next term of office when they go to elections, so that they know what they should adapt to. Andersson now says that there are no proposals at the moment. The security of it becomes quite empty when the Left Party simultaneously demands changes and we know that the government has previously been willing to betray the promises it has made. It would therefore be nice if Mr Andersson could give a clear and direct answer to the Swedish people. Can they expect a change in wealth tax and a change in interest deduction – yes or no? It's in Andersson's power to decide.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-526	Mr President, I would like to To come up with calculation examples where interest rebates are completely abolished without any compensation being made up for households is to scare people up unnecessarily. I do not believe that any government in Sweden would ever do such a thing, and that is certainly not in the cards for this government. However, the situation in the Swedish housing market is not such that it is possible to exclude that we must take action if household indebtedness continues in the way it does. If we see that prices continue in the way they do, a responsible government must be prepared to take action. If the Moderates rule out the possibility of taking measures to address household indebtedness if it slips away, you just show that you are not government-worthy – that you are not able to take responsibility. The government has made it clear that we now want to see the effects of amortisation requirements. They seem to have had a calming effect on the housing market. If it is running away, we may need to take further action, but what measures are appropriate then we need to come back to then. The discussion about a reduction in interest rebates has not been about stepping them off without compensating households. In that case, this is a cautious step-by-step approach, which also provides compensation for households. Just doing this through tax cuts, as the Liberals have proposed, risks hitting the wrong distribution policy. There are families with children who are sitting on loans and who, with the Liberals' proposal, would be very in trouble. I'm told I haven't answered the questions. The thing is, I answered the questions in my initial answer. The debate has continued a little after that. If you are worried about the interest rebates, you should be concerned not only about the Left Party and the Green Party, but also about Fredrik Schulte and the Liberals.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-532	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte has asked me why the government borrows to raise the contributions when Sweden is in need of saving to meet worse times. When the previous government took office in 2006, public finances showed a surplus equivalent to 2.2 per cent of GDP, and public debt decreased. When the current government took office, we were faced with a deficit of 1.6 percent of GDP, and the government had to borrow more than SEK 70 billion. It was therefore under the previous government that public savings deteriorated sharply and the state began borrowing. When the government took office, financial savings in the general government sector deviated clearly from the level of the surplus target. Between 2009 and 2014, structural savings deteriorated by more than 3.5 per cent of GDP. This is partly explained by the prolonged recession, but above all by the unfunded measures – including several tax cuts – taken by the previous government despite the improvement of the economic situation. The current government has been pursuing a tight fiscal policy which has led to a sharp decline in the general government deficit since 2014. Despite the large deficit inherited by the previous government and the short-term implications for public finances of recent years' asylum migration, the government intends to pursue a fiscal policy that will achieve the surplus target by 2020. The return to savings in line with the surplus target will then take place at a well-balanced pace. In conclusion, it is also not correct for the government to borrow. Both the Swedish National Debt Office and the Government believe that we will amortise the national debt this year.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-537	Mr President, I would like to It's a boom, and in a boom you should save. You should save in prosperity so that you can then face a recession. The Minister of Finance does not. What she does instead is spend a lot of money, above all by increasing the contributions for those who do not work. So we have a Minister of Finance lending for premium increases. When she tries to explain this away, she tries to paint a picture of the Alliance government borrowing for tax cuts. She says that we had a deficit of 70 billion in 2014 and that that deficit has now been reduced. I would first like to say one thing, and that is that the deficit would have been much greater if the Social Democratic budget had gone through for 2015. The second thing I want to say is that we had a prolonged recession during the last and the previous term of office, which meant that we had to increase the state's borrowing in order to stimulate the economy. The interesting thing about this is that if there were 70 billion in deficit in 2014, Magdalena Andersson was with 64 of those billions. So her argument is completely hollow. It is almost that one begins to wonder whether the Minister of Finance even knows the difference between prosperity and recession. Is she aware that there are other conditions when there is a recession than when there is a boom? Another interesting thing is that the Minister of Finance is trying to paint a picture that she should be able to take credit for the fact that economic development is so positive. The Minister of Finance has thus had his budget in force for a few months. The Social Democrats did not get their budget for 2015, but it was the alliance budget that went through. The reason why Sweden has done well is that the Alliance conducted a responsible economic policy and that structural reforms were carried out to improve the economy. What we see from this government is entirely agreed by the experts. The Economic Institute and the Council of Finance Policy – all independent experts – say the same thing, namely that the government's policy will increase structural unemployment. Then, when there is a recession, unemployment will be higher than it would have been if the Social Democrats had not enforced their policies. We also hear very clear criticism from the Council of Finance Ministers that it is not saving enough. The new President, Mr Flam, said very clearly in a press release just a few weeks ago that the government is creating serious imbalances in public savings. We must save now that there are good times to be able to face the recession once it comes, and especially in view of the fact that the interest rate is now so low that we cannot count on the Riksbank to help and stimulate a recovery. In this situation, the Minister of Finance instead chooses to invest in a policy in which she increases the tax on labour in order to be able, in essence, to finance investment in increased benefits so that it pays less to work. It is very clear, both rational and logical, but also clearly rooted in science, that this will lead to higher unemployment. This is what the Minister of Finance is lending – to increase the subsidies.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-545	Mr President, I would like to What is going on here, when you listen to the Minister of Finance, is nothing more than historical revisionism. To compare individual years and talk about what it looked like last year with Göran Persson's government and last year with the alliance government is completely irrelevant when you look at the total. The interesting thing is what happened during the eight years that the Alliance ruled Sweden. At that time, public debt decreased, despite the fact that we went through the deepest global recession since the 1930s. Nevertheless, we reduced our public debt. I think that Magdalena Andersson should pay tribute to Anders Borg and the alliance government instead of pretending that the last figure on the last line in December 2014 is the important one. We could compare individual months or something else if we think it's fun, but the interesting thing is actually to see what happens over time. As Fredrik Schulte pointed out here, the S-budget was actually significantly weaker in 2014 than the Alliance's budget was. Magdalena Andersson was an economic-political spokesperson for the Social Democrats and produced that budget. Yet she has the nerve to complain about the Alliance's deficit, although she herself wanted an even bigger one. It is a little strange that you complain about the Alliance's figures when you yourself had an even bigger deficit in your budget. Why can Magdalena Andersson not admit that the Social Democrats' budget was even weaker in 2014? I'll tell you again, nine months are to be compared to nine years. The current government has conducted a tight fiscal policy that has led to a sharp decline in the public sector since 2014, says Magdalena Andersson in her reply. It is also, in fact, a falsification of history. You've been running your budget for nine months. For the rest of the nine years that have passed, it has been the Alliance's budget. After all, it is we who have pursued a policy and laid the foundations for the deficit in the state economy to be reduced. You're not the ones who did it. At the end, it says: and finally, it is not correct for the government to borrow. This is very strange. If a budget is in deficit, it must be financed with loans. Is it perhaps the municipalities that are the banks today? The central government owes municipalities SEK 20 billion for migration costs. Is that how Magdalena Andersson is financing the deficit today?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-550	Mr President, I would like to When Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson presented the budget last week, if I remember correctly, she boasted that the government has conducted a tight fiscal policy since Rosenbad was taken over. It was also insinuated that it also continued to see the need for, is interested in and wants to pursue a tight fiscal policy. At the same time, once we look at the budget and also listen to the independent experts who have spoken, including the Institute of Economic Development, we can see that much more remains to be done to pursue a tight fiscal policy, something that the Minister of Finance seems to want to achieve. I am assuming that this is more than just political rhetoric, in fact something that one wishes and wants to reflect the content. Mr President, I would like to It would be perfectly possible to achieve a balanced budget, despite the fact that we have undergone both political and financial crises in recent years. Sometimes when you listen to the representatives of different political parties, you get the impression that it is more or less impossible for the Swedish parliament to achieve a budget in balance during this year or future year, but it is something you like to postpone – preferably into the next parliamentary term. But it's actually quite possible. The truth is that, today, deficits are not driven by the burden of old costs, but by the expansion of benefit systems, something that it would be perfectly possible for today's government to say no to. The Social Democrats could abstain and say that they cannot afford it at the moment. In fact, a tight fiscal policy could be pursued and not simply refer to the desire to pursue a tight fiscal policy. The truth is also that what Sweden needs is not an extended grant at all. What Sweden needs and what, among other things, the Konjunkturinstitutet points to are significant reforms to get more people into work. That is what Sweden needs right now. Sweden currently has the highest level of employment in the EU. The Minister of Finance has been proud of this in the past, and that is correct. Sweden already had in 2014 what was classified by the EU as the best job market in the EU with an extremely high level of employment, but we are not quite able to ensure that enough people are involved and contribute. Above all, we are not able to keep the cost of grants down, but it is something that accelerates and occupies a far too large part of the Swedish state budget. Significant reforms are needed in order for more people to want to work more and thus contribute more. However, significant reforms are also needed to ensure that those furthest from the labour market are actually given a chance to enter the labour market and can contribute. Firstly, this means that we need further reductions in taxes on labour. Low-income earners pay almost nowhere else in the world higher taxes than they do in Sweden. It is a great and active restraint on the will to work. Secondly, few other places in the world have such significant marginal effects when you go from subsidies to work that it is a deterrent for many. You have to achieve very high wages to even make money by going to work. The truth is also that no other country in the EU has as low a share of simple jobs as Sweden has, and this represents a significant threshold for young people and newcomers to enter the labour market. All these things have certainly improved in recent years but are far from good. Reforms are needed, but the government chooses to do nothing. Instead, subsidies are being increased. There is another way that is possible. It is possible to conduct a tight fiscal policy in real terms.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-562	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates think I should pay tribute to Anders Borg. I've done that many times, too. I think that the policy pursued during the financial crisis itself was well balanced. I would have liked to see another mix of measures, but I do not think it was wrong then to use the large surpluses that were inherited to counteract the effects of the financial crisis. I have never criticised that – quite the opposite. I have said that I think it is a balanced policy on the scale. On the other hand, my criticism is directed at the substantial tax cuts that continued to be implemented in 2013 and 2014, despite the fact that the economic cycle had then turned around, and which caused us to have large deficits that were not due to the economic cycle. The structural deficit that we took over in 2014 was 0.9 per cent of GDP, which means that it ended up about 75 – 80 billion from the surplus target that one should have. So we took over in a situation where we were about 80 billion from the surplus target, due to the fact that the tax was reduced in a way for which there was no room in public finances. We put tighter budgets than the government in opposition from the time I took over, which meant tighter budget movements both in 2013 and 2014. In 2015, we presented a very tight budget. The framework of the Alliance Movement was based on my budget and was also tight. I would like to pay tribute to that. The Alliance put a much tighter budget motion in opposition than it has ever done in a government position, and the conclusion I draw from it is that the alliance parties fit best in opposition. It's best for the Swedish economy. It is also important to say that we tabled an amending budget in the spring. If we had had a policy that was so bad and that had ruined public finances for 2015, we would have been able to do so in the spring so that it would have affected public finances. However, we did not, but we put forward a very responsible and fully funded budget motion at the time. I also think you should perhaps be a little careful on the part of the Moderates when you say that it was moderate politics throughout 2015, because we did a massive roof increase in the unemployment fund last autumn that I may not think the Moderates want to take the credit of. Talking about independent experts may not be the best thing to do these very days, when, two days in a row, independent international experts have clearly demonstrated that the government is pursuing a balanced and responsible economic policy. Today, the IMF has come up with its study of Sweden, where they clearly say that they think the government is pursuing a good and balanced policy – a very clear recognition that the government's fiscal policy is more balanced than it sometimes sounds when listening to the opposition. Yesterday the World Economic Forum also came with its competition power measurement where we step up 20 positions in terms of economic policy – a substantial leap upwards thanks to the policy being conducted here. At the same time, it is important to say that we received more asylum seekers in Sweden last autumn than any OECD country has received in modern times. If you do not believe that it would in any way affect public finances in the near future, I think you may not quite understand the scale of the challenge. Here we see that the government's policy, as we have changed, has had an effect and that fewer people are seeking asylum. This means that the costs are highest in 2016 and 2017. That is also why we see deficits in those years, but it is clear that we are then moving towards balance and surplus. This is partly because the costs are reduced and partly because the government has conducted and continues to conduct a very responsible policy. We have reduced the cost there by 100 billion since last spring.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-570	Mr President, I would like to We are therefore debating the fact that the government is borrowing for increases in subsidies. Despite the fact that we have a boom and should save, we are borrowing money to be able to finance large investments in order not to pay better to work. The Social Democrats want to give the impression that they are a party that defends welfare, but in the end it is the contributions that they really invest in. That was also the case in opposition. Magdalena Andersson tries to give the picture that they were responsible in 2013 and 2014 and that the then bourgeois government borrowed money to finance tax cuts. We have had this debate so many times, and I never get a sensible answer – or at least a confession from the Minister for Finance that she proposed almost exactly the same amount of effort as the Alliance Government did. If Magdalena Andersson had been Minister of Finance in 2014, the deficit would have been EUR 64 billion instead of EUR 70 billion. Basically, we agreed that we should stimulate the economy then. The difference was that we wanted to borrow the state in 2013 and 2014 in order to stimulate the economy through tax cuts, while Magdalena Andersson wanted to do so in the way she always wants to do, namely through grant increases. When Magdalena Andersson will be able to read the Moderates' budget in a week's time, she will be able to see that – she already knows that there has already been a press release about it – that we are proposing 16 billion more in savings over the next two years. This means that, after the 2017 budget, there is no doubt whatsoever that the squandering party in this drama is the Social Democrats. What is particularly amazing is that it is a fantastic boom and a high demand. It is right now that Sweden should save, but it is right now that the Minister of Finance is squandering through, above all, increases in subsidies. This is not just a serious matter because it jeopardises public finances. Speaking of the IMF's report, what is interesting about it and what makes the IMF different from Swedish independent assessors, such as the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance Policy, is that the IMF has a longer perspective. When the IMF looks at how Sweden has managed its public finances, they go further back in time, that is to the years when the Alliance ruled, while the Council of Finance Policy and the Institute of Economics are looking at here and now. As President of the Financial Policy Council Harry Flam says for the government an unbalanced policy. It is not only serious that the Minister of Finance is endangering public finances. It is at least as serious that she is pursuing a policy of increasing subsidies, because what happens then is that it will not pay off to work. In the scarce year in which the Minister for Finance has been able to influence politics, incentives, incentives, for work for ordinary people have fallen sharply. This means that you are unemployed longer; there the research is very clear. You're looking for fewer jobs. You get more picky when choosing a job. Above all, people get stuck because being excluded is hard. If you also feel that taking a job doesn't pay off, many people get caught up in depression and don't have the energy to get back into the labour market. These are the effects of Magdalena Andersson's policy, and we now see them clearly. There will be more exclusions, and the costs of subsidies will increase.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-580	Mr President, I would like to I would like to go back to 2008 again and the crisis that we had then. The alliance had very large surpluses in the budget, and we worked them up gradually. In 2008, the economy was very strong. We remember what it was like in the spring of 2008. Everything looked great and all the numbers pointed in the right direction, but only six months later we were in a really deep crisis. But then there were muscles. We had large surpluses in the budget, and the interest rate was normal. We could then invest money to get out of the crisis and, above all, keep the welfare of the municipalities under arms so that it would not collapse when the tax revenue fell. Today we have a deficit in the state budget, and we have a negative interest rate. We don't have any muscles at all. In this situation, the government is lending to increase various grants and compensations. What's the government doing? What does Magdalena Andersson intend to do if there is a new global economic unrest? There's no shortage of threats. The Finance Minister himself reported to the Finance Committee as late as today that there are great risks and great threats. But there's no alert. We Moderates see the risk, and we are putting a budget in balance this year. Nevertheless, we give more money to the welfare than the government does. We give 60 billion to the welfare, the government gives 40 billion. You're borrowing for a grant. We'll spend the money on welfare. One of the things we save on is the construction subsidies. Magdalena Andersson said just now that if we pull them in, it will stop building, that it will hit the building. Peter Eriksson stated at Question Time today that we almost have a new record in construction today – without subsidies, because they have not entered into force and started to operate yet. Nevertheless, we have a record building. There is no risk at all of removing construction subsidies. It will be built on as usual. As I said: Magdalena Andersson plays roulette with the Swedish economy by not being prepared. I would like a comment on that.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-588	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and the other speakers. During the last speech by the Minister for Finance, it sounded somewhat like Anders Borg himself was a good guy but that more or less everything the Alliance had done during its years was wrong in terms of labour market policy and economic policy. She then praised the results of the alliance budgets. We can divide if it's nine or eight and a half years of alliance budgets; yet it's almost a decade of alliance politics. I can't really get it together. Does she think that the efforts made were good or bad? If they were so bad, such as the job tax deduction, does she have an intention to abolish them? Sometimes it sounds like that. However, this type of effort remains in the government budget and is even described as something positive that contributes to increased employment, which is not always the picture you get when you listen to the Minister for Finance. Mr President, I would like to Of course, you should be proud that Sweden is doing well. There is every reason for the Minister of Finance to be proud and happy that we in Sweden have a strong economy, that we have strong and good competitiveness, but that is something that rests on what we have done in the past. It says very little about where we're going. If we look ahead instead, we can read in the government's own budget that we are forecasting for more people in exclusion. The Economic Institute confirms that labour force participation is expected to decline in the future due to the lack of significant reforms to bring more people to work. The Financial Policy Council, Konjunkturinstitutet – we can line up a wide range of bodies that are worried about the future even if Sweden has done well in the past. The employment tax deduction had a significant impact, while total revenues to the public sector rose by 91 billion over the alliance years. There is every reason to continue implementing reforms.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-596	Mr President, I would like to Let me point out that when the Moderates talk about 60 billion more to welfare, they talk about the money they give but are silent about the money they take. If you count on the money the Alliance takes from the municipalities, it ends in a negative amount. For example, the Municipal Bonus of 7.5 billion needs to be excluded. Even a series of ups and downs for the municipalities are the result of Moderate politics, which puts it on the negative side. Not least, it would be a disaster for municipalities next year when we halve our welfare billions. The municipalities received 10 billion for this year, which the Moderates now want to halve. Thousands of people around the country are in danger of having to resign if the policy of the Moderates becomes a reality. It is fortunate for all children in school and preschool and for our elderly who depend on welfare that it will not be. The Moderates say we're borrowing for grants. Let me point out that the state budget goes with plus. Then it is perhaps a little difficult to say that we are borrowing for the reforms. Fredrik Schulte says that we raise taxes, which increases exclusion and makes people depressed. The income tax increase the government makes is the escalation of the job tax deduction for people who earn over 50 000. I am not entirely convinced that this tax change increases exclusion. I asked a question in the last interpellation debate to which I have still not been given an answer. The Moderates have often debated and expressed how terrible this increase is. Does this mean that in their budget motion they will propose that the escalation be removed and thus lower my tax by 26 000 SEK?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-601	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister of Finance is curious about the Moderates' budget. But she'll have ice in her stomach, because it'll be here in a week. Then she'll get answers to all her questions. The debate is about the fact that we have a Minister of Finance lending for premium increases, although she is trying to make it look like something else. The state goes with deficits, and we should save and collect in the barns so that we can face the next recession. But the government chooses to spend more money than it should, and you get criticism from almost all independent experts. What you do for this borrowed money above all is to invest in higher grants so that it does not pay to work. Two years ago, a nurse received 6 000 – 7 000 SEK extra from working versus going to unemployment insurance. It has fallen to about $5,000. We've got a situation where an unemployed lawyer can get more money in order not to work than the 19-year-old waitress gets paid to get up in the morning and work and work 40 hours a week. This builds a society that will create an enormous dependency on subsidies. You give birth to a culture of dependency and a feeling that you don't have to contribute. It will have serious consequences, especially in view of the fact that we have a huge integration challenge with people who have come as refugees to Sweden and, as we know, it will be tough to assert themselves on the Swedish labour market. Now we have to make sure that it pays better to work, and we have to save until the day of recession. Magdalena Andersson does exactly the opposite. She borrows more money than she should, and she invests it in increasing the benefits so that it pays less to work. This is exactly the wrong way for Sweden.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-607	Madam President, I would like No, Fredrik Schulte, the state does not go with deficit. Fredrik Schulte can do some reading. The government is going in surplus. No, not all external experts criticise the government. On the contrary, today we have received a great deal of recognition from the IMF, not for the policies that have been pursued in the past, but for the very policies that are being pursued here and now. The IMF believes that this is a balanced policy and that the way in which the government handles the costs of the large asylum immigration that we had last autumn is quite right. If the asylum situation does not affect public finances or employment rates in the coming years, it seems that there is no real link and no understanding of what has happened. More people per capita have applied for asylum in Sweden than in any other country in the EU. This has been dealt with by the government, and we will of course continue to deal with this situation. But of course it affects government finances in the near future. The government is handling it in a way that is widely recognised by the IMF today. Of course, we have a different policy from the Moderates. The Moderates are a party that wants to lower taxes for those who earn the most. Fredrik Schulte cannot answer if he wants to give me a tax cut of 26 000 or not. However, since he has said so many times in this House that he thinks it is bad that we have increased the tax for me by 26 000, I assume that he now wants to reduce my tax by 26 000. Here we have different entrances. Should people like me who have good income be involved in contributing more to welfare, to a good school and preschool, a functioning health care and a safe elderly care? And not least, should we be involved in helping our young people who are waiting to get a job, to start studying and to be able to leave home get that opportunity? I am happy to contribute more to this, and I know that it is a better policy to build Sweden strong than to reduce my tax by 26 000.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-614	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me what support I have for raising marginal taxes has something other than negative effects on the national economy and why I choose to increase the taxes that are absolutely most harmful to the economy. Fredrik Schulte has also asked me whether I believe that the job tax credit has been ineffective, the circumstances and facts on which I base this claim and whether I am considering reducing employment tax deductions. After the previous government's terms of office, we saw a situation of large government deficits, unemployment that has been sustained at high levels and declining performance in primary school. In order to implement urgent efforts which, among other things, contribute to increasing employment and reducing unemployment, the tax must be increased. For example, in the case of the job tax deduction, people with a million income received more than SEK 26 000 per year in job tax deductions. The government believes that there are better ways to use that money. Higher taxes for those with relatively high incomes provide both the necessary tax revenues and a good distribution profile. Furthermore, it is not only taxes that affect the number of hours worked and the national economy. Sweden now has the highest employment rate in the EU. Access to childcare and care for the elderly is an important prerequisite for this. Continued investment in welfare is necessary for both women and men to have the opportunity to work full-time, which increases economic equality. Better care for the elderly and higher quality childcare facilities are not only a matter of safe old age and childhood, but can also reduce the number of people who stop working or go down working hours to care for their loved ones. Investments in, for example, increased housing construction and infrastructure also contribute to increased employment. The Government currently has no further proposals in the field of income tax than those presented in connection with the 2017 budget bill.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-621	Madam President, I would like The alliance reduced the tax for ordinary people who work with almost 2,000 kroner a month. The purpose of this was to make it pay better to work. There should be a difference between going to work and working and working and living on benefits. This is clearly anchored in research. The Economic Institute and the Financial Policy Council agreed that the job tax deductions carried out by the previous government would provide approximately 180,000 more jobs when the effects of economic boom and recession are removed. It is also strongly rooted in scientific studies that the lower the tax you have on your job, the greater the drive you have to work rather than go on benefits, reducing unemployment and increasing employment. Contrary to what experts say, the Minister for Finance says that this policy has had no effect at all. Her argument is: Look, there was so much unemployment when the Alliance ruled. It is as if the Minister of Finance does not know the difference between prosperity and recession. We had one of the worst global crises since the Second World War during almost the whole of the last parliamentary term and parts of the previous parliamentary term. It was one of the worst global crises in modern history. It is clear that unemployment was higher then. What is interesting is what you call equilibrium unemployment, i.e. when you remove the effect of economic boom and recession. The Finance Minister's own budget notes that equilibrium unemployment decreased during the time of the Alliance. In spite of the crisis, both unemployment and structural unemployment were reduced, i.e. when the effect of economic boom and recession was removed. Yet the Minister of Finance repeatedly says that this policy did not have any effect. I think the Minister of Finance has even said that the job tax deduction was money in the lake. Then I have a simple little question: What does she support in that statement? All the experts speak against her. All the research is against her. I understand that the Minister of Finance does not want to reduce tax. I have respect for the fact that she has a socialist ideological starting point and would rather raise taxes, but she cannot come and claim that the effects of politics were anything other than what they actually were and as the expertise stated. It's unserious. That is why I think we should have a clear answer from Magdalena Andersson. Does she stand by the statements she has made time and again in debates here in Parliament and in television debates and where she said that the job tax deduction is ineffective? Does she stand by it, or does she reject it? If she stands by it, what support does she have for this claim? Present it, Magdalena Andersson! You might even get the Nobel Prize in Economics if you do.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-631	Madam President, I would like I can't remind myself that I've said that the job tax deduction is money in the lake. Fredrik Schulte may want to be friendly and give correct quotes. It is difficult to respond to things that I do not perceive as having said. I can't remember saying there's money in the lake. I'd love to have the quote.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-632	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson knows very well that she has said that the job tax deduction is ineffective. I think she said it as late as in the budget debate with Moderates' spokesperson Ulf Kristersson. She criticised the fact that the Moderates are proposing further tax reductions for those with the lowest income so that it would pay better to work and pointed out that the job tax deductions are completely ineffective. We can debate here what you have said and have not said, Magdalena Andersson, but if you claim that you have not claimed it, can you go up the speaker's seat and clearly distance yourself from the idea that the job tax deductions are ineffective? Can the Minister of Finance go up and agree with the Institute of Economic Affairs, the Council of Finance and all serious, independent economic assessors that the job tax credit has created a so-called 180,000 more jobs? If she can do so, we shall not have this debate any more, but we shall be pleased and happy with her reply. The problem is that she repeatedly makes false statements that give an unprofessional impression and are simply not true. Let us not discuss what the Minister of Finance has said or not said. Now the Minister for Finance has the chance to go up and see that the job tax deductions had a positive employment effect. If she can't do it, let's assume she actually thinks they were ineffective. Give me a clear answer, please!
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-637	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would just like to make a small point of order to the Minister for Finance. Now she claims that the state budget goes with plus, but in previous posts she said that the budget will be in balance in 2018. Both can't be true at the same time. The truth is that the overall state budget will be in deficit next year in the Social Democrats' and Government's budget. That is why we want to show an alternative to it and that we achieve balance directly in 2017. With regard to the tax burden on high and low wage earners, when we took office in 2006, we in the Alliance were able to note that, above all, low and middle wage earners in Sweden paid by far the world's highest taxes. So did the high-income earners, but it was a major problem that such a large proportion of the working-age population paid the world's highest taxes. That is why we introduced the job tax deduction, and it actually brought the Swedish low and middle income earners down a bit. It became a little more reasonable in relation to our surrounding world and other countries when it comes to low- and middle-income earners. On the other hand, the Swedish high income earners continued to pay the world's highest taxes even during the Alliance. The land tax was still in place, and the state tax was still in place. In addition, there was a ceiling on how much you could get in job tax deductions. The truth is that the Alliance reduced the relative tax burden on those who had low and normal incomes in relation to the outside world, while the high-income earners continued to pay the world's highest taxes. There is a limit to how much tax you can levy on people with higher incomes before they see no point in either training or taking risks, working hard and taking responsible jobs. Then there is a great risk that they will instead apply for these jobs in other countries and that competence will disappear from Sweden. The Minister for Finance, with his background in tax administration and the like, should also realise that it is not working. It is pure populism that as soon as you are going to do something raise the tax a little for those who have high incomes and say: They can well contribute to the welfare. The truth is that high income earners in Sweden contribute extremely much to Swedish welfare already today. There is a limit when it starts to damage the entire functioning of the Swedish labour market and the willingness to take risks, exert themselves and educate themselves. We're very close to that line now. Magdalena Andersson spoke a bit of a fuss about her own high tax of 26 000. It is easy to rummage about such sums when you have the income that Magdalena Andersson has as Minister of Finance. It may not be as easy to sort it out when you have a more normal income of SEK 30 000 – 35 000 and get increased tax. One may have adapted one's standard of living and living and so on, perhaps in Greater Stockholm, to a certain level of taxation. If you then get a little increased and get increased marginal tax, it may not be as easy to ralli over it as Magdalena Andersson does. I have to say one more thing. Magdalena Andersson said that the asylum situation naturally affects public finances. Yes, of course it does, just as the recession affected unemployment during the time of the Alliance. But Magdalena Andersson does not want to pretend about that at all when she talks about unemployment rising during the time of the Alliance. There is no recognition whatsoever that a global deep recession, perhaps the worst since the 1930s, affected unemployment in Sweden at all. Actually, I think it's a little low-level combat technique. If the asylum situation affects public finances, as we obviously know it does, the recession also affected unemployment. Again: It is very easy to take credit for things, and now Magdalena Andersson does it again. It is now a question of migration policy, that it is the government that takes responsibility and has presented reforms. It was an agreement between the government and the Alliance. Don't forget that! It was we who took responsibility for the migration crisis.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-646	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson said that it is not easy for someone who has 30 000 - 35 000 to get a tax increase of 26 000. Nor have we increased the tax rate for someone who has 30 000 – 35 000, but it is for people who have income above 50 000 that we are stepping up the job tax deduction. To get a tax increase of 26,000, you have to have a million-dollar income. We have not increased the income tax for anyone by 30 000 – 35 000. Jan Ericson! It is quite correct that the financial crisis has obviously affected both public financial savings and unemployment during the alliance period. I've never tried to claim anything else. My criticism is, above all, that I do not think that it should have continued to borrow for tax cuts when the business cycle was recovering. I would also have liked a different mix of measures. Instead, we should have invested more in combating unemployment than we did so that unemployment would have been lower than it was. It is quite correct that we have received support from the Moderates for the rescheduling of migration policy. That is good, and it shows the strength of Swedish politics. However, it does not show the strength of Swedish politics when Fredrik Schulte claims that I have said that the job tax deduction is ineffective. I cannot recall having said that, and before Fredrik Schulte repeats this, I propose that he quote correctly. It is very difficult to stand in the speaker's chair and respond to statements about what has been said that I think is without foundation. I usually say that the job tax deductions have not had the effects that were hoped for. I really hope that the job tax deductions have some job effects, given how expensive they are. On the other hand, job tax deductions are a very expensive and inefficient way of trying to raise employment. We want to work with more effective measures. That is why we are not proposing any job tax deductions. Instead, we propose other measures to raise employment and reduce unemployment. We invest not least in education but also in special efforts for people who are far removed from the labour market. Cost-effectiveness is something that drives this government. Finally, I will say something about the difference between the state and the public. The state goes with the plus. The municipalities, however, go with negative. The state's budget already goes with plus. In contrast, municipalities and the old-age pension system reduce public financial savings. It is therefore the entire public financial saving that reaches balance in 2018. On the other hand, the state is already joining the plus.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-652	Madam President, I would like It is no other than that I shall have to come back with precise quotes to the Minister for Finance in another interpellation debate. But at least we can be very sure of one thing: The comment that the job tax deductions are ineffective has been made many times by the Prime Minister. He said it as recently as in the party leader debate last, just a week ago, here in Parliament. If the Minister for Finance says one thing and her Prime Minister says another, I think the government has a very big problem. Then you cannot even agree on any of the basic principles of how the Swedish economy works. Magdalena Andersson says she wants to see more effective measures. It is interesting that all independent economic assessors agree that the job tax credit has led to a positive reduction of equilibrium unemployment by around 180 000. Then they also happen to conclude that the government's policy has so far resulted, and will result, in an increase in balanced unemployment of around 20 000 more unemployed than would otherwise be the case. It is easy for the Minister of Finance to stand and say that she wants more effective measures. You can use it as an argument for just about anything. The only way to really determine whether a policy is effective or not is to count on it. Curiously, the Minister of Finance does not want to count on the employment effects of his own policy. She claims it can't be done. The Alliance government did it all the time. Independent economic and political assessors do so. But the Minister of Finance won't. Strangely enough, it is the word that stands against words here. Experts say that government policy is ineffective and leads to unemployment. The Minister of Finance does not present any concrete evidence for anything else.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-657	Madam President, I would like I have to say that the Minister of Finance tried to mix up the cards a little with the overall budget of the state. We all know that there are several different parameters in the budget. But the conclusion and the total figure show a deficit in the government's overall budget, and it is not in the total budgets of the Moderates. We are presenting balance, and as I said, we are doing so because we want to be better prepared when we enter the next recession. And it'll come sooner or later. We have a stronger budget than the government, and yet we invest more in welfare than the government does. Magdalena Andersson rallies a bit, and I might have been a little sloppy when I said 30 000 – 35 000. The limit actually runs at 36,000. That's where you get a marginal tax increase next year. It affects 1.3 million employees. So many get increased marginal tax. Magdalena Andersson usually calls the tax increase a tax reduction to mix the cards away. It's a little weird considering it's giving revenue to the state. It is difficult to see that a tax reduction would give revenue to the State. I think that Magdalena Andersson mixes away the cards too in this regard. 33 per cent of electrical fitters in Sweden will receive increased marginal tax. 37 percent of midwives will also receive it, as will 43 percent of the police and 70 percent of the engineers. They get increased marginal tax in Magdalena Andersson's budget. As I said, it is easy for Magdalena Andersson to laugh it off and say that 26 000 here or there does not matter much to her. I know these people don't get any 26,000. This is about much less money. But it is still a marginal tax increase, and that is not what we need in Sweden if we are to reward education and get people to move forward. Since the crisis years around 2008, we had a fall in unemployment in 2009, and after that unemployment has fallen steadily. The employment rate has increased. Now the figures show that this will turn around in a few years' time. What kind of muscle does the Minister of Finance have to do something about it? None at all.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-661	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson claims we're raising the marginal tax. Actually, that's not true. Margin tax is the same. On the other hand, there is an automatic tax reduction in the system, and we slow down a little. If we raise the tax – is it that Jan Ericson gets higher tax after the turn of the year than he had before? Does he have higher tax or lower tax in January 2017 than he had in December 2016? The answer is that Jan Ericson has a lower tax. It is this tax reduction that he calls a marginal tax increase – about mixing the cards away.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-663	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether I intend to reduce the tax on pensioners during his term of office. As I have already replied to Fredrik Schultes's party colleagues several times earlier this year, the government believes that the unfair difference between the taxation of labour income and the taxation of pensions introduced by the moderate-led alliance government should be abolished. In a first step, the government has strengthened the increased basic deduction for older people so that pensioners over 65 years of age are not taxed higher than employees under 65 years of age on income up to SEK 120 000 per year. The increased basic deduction was also reinforced for those with pensions up to SEK 240 000 per year. The government's reform means that with the lowest pensions they pay lower taxes this year than they would if the government did not make the change. The Government's ambition is to take further steps to reduce tax differentials between labour income and pension.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-666	Madam President, I would like For eight years it was a very high tone from the Social Democrats. It was said that the Alliance had introduced a pensioner's tax. What the Alliance did was we cut taxes for ordinary people who work with job tax deductions. It is a policy that has had a great positive impact on employment, more people at work and strengthened the Swedish economy. This tax cut – the job tax deduction – went just to those who worked. There was then a feeling in many pensioners of being wronged. This wrongly described the Social Democracy as a pensioner's tax. In fact, it was a tax cut for those who worked and no special tax on those who did not work. The alliance was clear anyway. We want to reduce taxes for everyone – including pensioners – and so did we. Five times during our time in power, we reduced the tax on pensioners to a total of nearly SEK 17 billion. The old-age pensioners have received nearly SEK 1 000 more a month in disposable income thanks to the tax cuts carried out by the Alliance. Yet it was a very high tone from the Social Democracy. The so - called pensioner tax was constantly returned to injustice, and it was promised that this tax gap would be removed. Magdalena Andersson has now been Minister of Finance for two years, and so far she has reduced the tax gap by just under SEK 1.9 billion. The Alliance reduced the tax nearly nine times more for pensioners than this government has done. Nor is there any sign that Magdalena Andersson is interested in further lowering the tax on pensioners, but this is about the fact that opposition was opportunist and attacked the then alliance government in a way that was politically and rhetorically viable, but there was no interest whatsoever in really doing anything about it once you came to power. This has become a bit of Magdalena Andersson's signature. It's not the first waltz she stands for. She promised not to touch RUT and ROT. She promised not to touch the surplus target. She promised not to raise taxes for ordinary people who work – in the last debate we heard Jan Ericson say that we get tax increases for 1.3 million employees. She promised not to raise the gas tax. She's done all this anyway. This is a government of betrayal. It's a government that doesn't stand by its word. You cannot trust this government, you cannot trust the Social Democrats and, above all, you cannot trust Magdalena Andersson, who sits on the TV sofa and promises that she will do one thing and then do the opposite. The issue of reducing taxes on pensioners is perhaps one of the clearest examples of this. A slight adjustment was made to the margin of its first budget, and then there have been no signals that further reforms will be made in order for pensioners to have more in their wallets. The lesson we can learn from this is that if pensioners want reduced taxes, they should vote for the Moderates.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-675	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte summed up what I would say very well in the last thing he said. If you want tax cuts for pensioners, you should vote for the Moderates or any other alliance party. There is no Swedish government in modern times that has reduced taxes as much for pensioners as the Alliance did. As I said, we spent EUR 16 1⁄2 billion on reducing taxes on pensioners. It was a fairly significant sum, and it should be set in relation to the government's 1.9 billion. The rhetorical approach of naming an unchanged tax into a pensioner's tax is not very honest, I think. I also think that most pensioners think that it is quite important how the whole of their own economy looks. We also increased the housing allowances for pensioners and introduced RUT deductions which allowed you to receive extended home care for a reasonable amount and so on. We are carrying out the many reforms for pensioners during our eight years. It is a pity that it is overshadowed by the zeal that the Social Democrats have spread about the fact that we have introduced a pensioner's tax, which we do not have. In addition, if you continue to work, you received double job tax deductions as a pensioner. It is also often forgotten. We reduced self-contributions for pensioners who were hired – something that the government has changed – and so on. I will take this opportunity to answer the question from the last round of the previous interpellation debate, because it is related to this. Magdalena Andersson asked me if I could get a higher or lower tax at next year's turn. My answer to that question is that in January 2017 I will get a higher tax than if the government did not increase the tax. I think that's a pretty good summary. We had a principle once in the big tax reform in Sweden. That's when I worked in a bank. It was a pretty good deal in a way, even though the Moderates at that time stood by the side of it. There was a good part in it, and it was that we decided that a limited proportion of Swedish employees would pay government income tax. All parties agreed on that. But during their reigns, both before the Alliance and now, the Social Democrats have undermined that principle quite dramatically by constantly bringing in more and more wage earners in the part that is to pay government income tax. That's exactly what you'll do next year's change. A number of people who just slip across the state income tax line – they have normal income and normal jobs – are then forced to start paying government income tax. That's not what was meant when you did the tax reform. I think that Magdalena Andersson should live up to the agreement that was made once and actually accept that there should be a limited number of people who pay government income tax and not constantly undermine this by pushing more and more into this system.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-683	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson answered the question. He thus receives a lower tax in January than in December but, of course, calls it a higher tax than if he had received even more in reduced tax. Jan Ericson refers to the agreement in the previous tax reform. Let me just point out that the Moderates were not in that agreement. But above all, the major deviations from that agreement occurred during the alliance years because the job tax deductions did not exist in it. It has completely redesigned the map of tax policy in Sweden and, above all, undermined the financing of welfare. That is also why the alliance government left a large deficit behind. The fact that the alliance government reduced the tax a great deal also left very large deficits behind. One big difference between this government and the former is that we are pursuing a prudent and responsible economic policy and not implementing large, expensive and unfunded tax cuts, but taking responsibility for public finances. It also means that the collection of pensioner's tax is something that we will implement in a way that also takes responsibility for public finances. The Moderates were actively involved in halting the first reduction in pensioner tax that we would have liked to have entered into force on 1 January 2015. We managed to get it through until January 1, 2016. It's very good, and it's the first step. Of course, we want to come up with further steps to reduce the pensioner's tax rate in order to abolish it in the long term. On the other hand, it has not been an election promise to abolish it during this parliamentary term, but of course I want us to be able to take further steps to reduce pensioner's tax. At the same time, I will always take responsibility for public finances in the same way as I have since I became Minister of Finance.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-688	Madam President, I would like It was not a first step taken about a year ago to reduce taxes on pensioners. It was a sixth step. The Alliance took five steps before this government took office. As I said earlier, we reduced the tax rate by nearly 17 billion for pensioners. In our motion in connection with our bill, we also bought the government's pensioner tax reduction. The description that the Minister for Finance is trying to make, that it is she who is responsible for tax cuts for pensioners while the Alliance is doing the opposite, is simply not correct. We have reduced the tax on pensioners nine times more than the Finance Minister has done. Looking at the priorities of this government, it is quite obvious and clear that tax cuts for pensioners are not on the wish list of the Minister for Finance. It is clear that it was empty words that were powerful in opposition politics and that the Minister for Finance could populistly use in the debates, but she had no interest whatsoever in actually implementing the promises. Instead, she chooses to prioritise increased unemployment so that it pays less to work and we have a situation where the 19-year-old waitress who has received his first job receives less after tax than the lawyer who becomes unemployed receives in benefits. It seemed to the Minister of Finance that priority should be given to reducing taxes on pensioners. It is not the only increase in the contribution that the Minister of Finance has made. A large part of the Social Democrats' efforts has been precisely to increase subsidies and to increase funds for inefficient labour market policies, or for that matter inefficient building subsidies. There is no support whatsoever for these to lead to increased construction. The conclusion is as follows: this Finance Minister cannot be trusted. She says one thing before the election campaign. When she comes to power, she does exactly the opposite. We see examples of this when it comes to RUT and ROT. We see examples of this when it comes to raising taxes for ordinary people who work. We see examples of this in the case of the petrol tax. We see examples of this with regard to the surplus target. And we see examples of this in terms of reduced tax rates for pensioners. There is little interest in the government to do anything about it. It has become clear in this budgetary process that priority is given to other things. Since we do not get any concrete promises from the Minister of Finance about when the next step will come, it is clear that this was just a lip service.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-694	Madam President, I would like I am a little upset when the Minister of Finance continues to repeat that we reduced the tax and that it made it less money for the welfare. It's untruthful. I amused myself with reading a little in Sweden's Municipalities and County Council's big economic report this summer. It was quite interesting. It showed that the results for the local government sector were weak during the S-governments 2000-2004. Between 2007 and 2014 and 2015, the results in the local government sector increased. It can also be seen that with the S-government in 2002 – 2006 the costs in municipalities were significantly higher than the tax base. But during the alliance years there was a balance between costs and tax bases. Of course, this is of great importance, not least for the elderly. A large part of a municipality's budget goes to care for the elderly. When the Minister of Finance tells us that we reduced the tax on employees and that it went out on welfare, she is wrong. In conclusion, since we received more resources for the local government sector, pensioners not only reduced taxes during the alliance years, but also gained more stable welfare in the municipalities. We did that, even though we went through the deep, global crisis during the years of the alliance. Magdalena Andersson's reality description is not correct. In addition, we are now seeing the imbalances in the municipal economy increasing again. What does Magdalena Andersson do? Yeah, she keeps borrowing. And she spends that money on completely different things than strengthening the local government sector. It's serious.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-698	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind Jan Ericson that the number of employees per 1 000 inhabitants fell during the time of the alliance government in power. Now the number is increasing again – speaking of how things are in welfare. It is quite correct that it is extremely important for pensioners that the municipalities have money to ensure a good home service. Therefore, it is sad that the Moderates want to halve the government's investment in welfare next year. Many people in the municipal care of the elderly would risk being laid off, which would give the elderly a more precarious everyday life. I have said several times here in the speaker's chair that we have taken a first step towards removing the pensioner's tax. We will take new steps, of course, at a pace that also means that we take responsibility for public finances. Yet Fredrik Schulte says that the government has no ambitions in this area. He is conducting the debate at such a low level that it is not even worth responding to.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-702	Madam President, I would like What is such a low level that it is not worth responding to was the high tone of the Social Democrats before the elections. The pensioner's tax was described as a deep injustice. When they came to power they made a ninth of what the Alliance had done, a ninth. You have not reduced the tax on pensioners in any broad sense, Magdalena Andersson. We gave them almost a thousand more a month in disposable income. They've got a little bit of a hundred from you. In addition, you have increased the tax for many pensioners by not raising the cut-off point for government income tax. Many pensioners have paid for it. In particular, you increased the special employer's contribution for older people. The bottom line is that many pensioners have had less money left in their wallets as a result of government policy. That is the dishonest thing about how the Minister of Finance deals with politics. She is in opposition and describes a deep injustice. Then she comes to power and makes a ninth of what the Alliance had already done. That is the low level of this debate. Another low level in the debate is that the Finance Minister is trying to create a picture that the Alliance would make major cuts in welfare. In a week's time, the Minister of Finance will be able to read the moderate opposition budget. Then she will see that we invest more in welfare than she does. We choose to prioritise other parts of welfare. Above all, we want to invest in schools and ensure that there is no school that is so bad that it is unable to carry out its basic task. It's supposed to be zero tolerance to bad schools. Surely we invest in welfare, more than the government does.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-709	Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the other bourgeois parties introduced the tax gap, which means that pensioners pay higher taxes than wage earners with the same income. We have made it clear that we have felt that it has been wrong all the way. We've argued against it. The first thing we did when we came into government was to take a first step to remove that gap. There is a difference in politics here. We do not think that a pensioner with the same income as an employee should pay higher taxes. The Moderates think so. They also have proposals to widen the gap by introducing additional job tax deductions. We want to remove the gap. We've taken a first step. We will take further steps to remove this gap until we have reached all the way. This is a clear policy from this government, although Fredrik Schulte is reluctant to listen to that ear. We're going to clear the gap. We will take further steps, but, unlike the alliance government, we are doing so at such a pace that we are also safeguarding public finances. This government strengthens public finances, unlike the alliance government that weakened them, not only during the financial crisis but above all in the years that followed. They left behind much larger deficits than they had during the financial crisis itself, the biggest deficits since the budgetary adjustment. According to what the Moderates presented yesterday, the government's efforts on welfare are halved. Half as much to the municipalities, 5 billion instead of 10 billion, means that thousands of people are in danger of being dismissed in the home service around the country. It wouldn't be good for our elders. I think many people are grateful that it is not the policy that becomes reality.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-715	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me, on the one hand, how high the kilometre tax will be, and, on the other hand, whether I am going to take any initiative in view of the criticism that is being made about how the proposal will hit rural, haulage and industry. An investigation is working on producing a proposal for road wear tax and will submit its report by 9 December 2016. The structure of the tax is part of the study's mission to analyse, as well as the impact of the proposed tax on different sectors and regions. Once the report has been submitted, it will be prepared in the usual order.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-717	Madam President, I would like So the government wants to introduce a so-called mileage tax. It's a very unhappy idea from the government. In my opinion, when introducing new taxes, the starting point should be that it should have as little impact on the economy and employment as possible. If this tax does not have a significant impact on the economy, it should be geared towards improving the environment, for example. This is a treasure that has neither. No matter how we do it is impossible to eliminate transport, if we are to maintain a modern society. The milk must be transported to the grocery stores. There is probably no part of the retail trade that is not dependent on transport. This tax will not have a positive environmental impact by shifting from environmentally harmful behaviour to less environmentally harmful behaviour. This tax is aimed at transport as such. These transports are impossible to remove, given that we want to maintain a modern society. What will happen instead is that there will be a direct tax charge on the haulage industry – an industry that employs about 100 000 people, an industry that has fierce competition from foreign operators who quite often, unfortunately, cheat with taxes and have unfair wage conditions for their employees. The industry contributes 100 billion to net exports. This tax strikes directly at an activity that is competitive, which employs many people and is in danger of being destroyed. It is therefore a tax that will have only negative effects. The Kilometer tax is also hitting the manufacturing industry, as it is dependent on transport. Trees for the forest industry can be found in northernmost Norrland, but they are processed to a large extent in Dalarna, for example. Somehow the cut-down trees must be transported from Norrbotten to Dalarna and then exported on the global wood market. These shipments will thus be subject to a tax which also hits the Swedish manufacturing industry directly. Not least, this tax will hit consumers. As I said: somehow the milk packages have to be shipped from the farm to the Ica store or the Coop store. Originally it was SEK 14 per kilometre, but now it is SEK 26, according to media data. This is going to hit consumers. Milk prices will be higher and costs to consumers will be higher. That's how it works. There are no large, wealthy companies that can only absorb the costs, but they will hit consumers. It is common people who have to pay, ordinary people in the haulage industry who become unemployed because it becomes out of competition by foreign operators, and ordinary people who work in the manufacturing industry or ordinary people who consume.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-722	Madam President, I would like A high tax, a kilometre tax, strikes jobs, against rural areas and against an entire industry, namely the transport industry. In addition, it leads to a high cost level plus an increased price level for consumers. Again, there is doubt that this is a harmful tax. According to media reports, when the planned SEK 14 per kilometre can be listed up to SEK 26, I am really worried. But the Minister of Finance does not touch these media data in one word. At least she could deny this information in this House. There is a huge difference between $14 and $25. A few months ago I visited an entrepreneur in my area, Eksjö. We were talking, and he was very concerned about how the mileage tax would hit for the 35 employees. The company does not belong to the transport industry, but you often use transport to manage your business. We also know that the transport industry's margins are so thin that they can be more or less likened to a very thin paper that can easily be disturbed by blowing on the t. Margins aren't huge in that business. It is an industry that is also exposed to foreign competition, which is usually not the best. What such a tax can do is to hit the profitability calculations for the forest industry, the haulage industry, agriculture and others. I would like to hear whether the Minister of Finance can give some advice to those entrepreneurs who, when planning their activities, are threatened by the fall in profitability that may eventually threaten the company's existence and thus threaten a great deal of jobs. For my part, I can say, with a background in economics and banking, that it really strikes very hard when such a tax is to be introduced. The Minister of Finance's ambition is to secure the state's finances compared to the cost of several thousand jobs being lost, businesses being shut down and rural areas becoming empty of activities.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-729	Madam President, I would like I do not know if those present here looked at the news story a few days ago about the difference in rural policy between Sweden and Norway. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht was asked afterwards about the importance of a good rural policy. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht pointed out that the 10 billion to go to the municipalities should be used for rural development. These 10 billion are supposed to be just enough for everything. At the same time, the government plans to present a proposal to punish transport in Sweden. It's pretty startling. It can be said that since such taxes exist in other countries, Sweden may also have them. The fact that Switzerland, which is a small country in the middle of Europe with a great deal of transit traffic, is charging a tax on passing lorries to finance its tunnels may not cause much harm to the Swiss economy. But it is not possible to compare Switzerland with Sweden at all. We are a very large country to the surface, and much of our basic industry is far away from railways and ports. Then you are completely dependent on truck transport. There is nothing in our country that works without truck transport. The warehouses of the industry are on trucks that are constantly being driven around, and they arrive when it is time to continue producing. All transports to us in rural areas are carried by lorries. There are no railways there. As far as the forestry sector is concerned, there are no railway tracks in the forest. You have to drive the timber on a truck. We are therefore completely dependent on truck transport in Sweden. Punishing transport not only strikes industry and forestry, but it hits society as a whole. Above all, it will hit consumers. All goods in the stores are shipped by truck. They will, of course, be more expensive, just as my colleagues have mentioned here before. Magdalena Andersson's pensioners, who received the reduced tax, will instead have to pay a little more for all the things they buy for this money because of the truck tax. This is extremely ill thought out. I get a little worried when the government is constantly trying to find new ways to sack the Swedish citizens. At all costs, we want to find new taxes and new tax bases, all the time. Everything that moves should be taxed. Everything that people do should be taxed. Everything that people have should be taxed. Such a society will not be good in the long run.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-735	Madam President, I would like In international organisations, the Nordic welfare model is increasingly being promoted, Jan Ericson. It is a model with a slightly higher tax charge but also a good welfare. Many international organisations now state that models deliver not only good equality but also high growth. Let's get back to the road wear tax. The investigation is still working, so it is not possible to comment on the exact levels it will propose or what the government will then possibly propose. But we can talk about it in general. Fredrik Schulte argues that a road wear tax has no environmental impact whatsoever. However, a road user tax which improves the conditions of competition for rail compared to the lorry is something that could transfer some goods that currently go on lorries to rail. This is particularly true if the government's investment in railway maintenance goes through and makes the Swedish rail network work better than it does today. Another possibility to increase environmental management is if environmentally adapted trucks are taxed according to the environmental class of the truck. Another point with a road wear tax is that it is something that even foreign hauliers could contribute to. Traffic analysis estimates that approximately 23 per cent of the total traffic work in Sweden is carried out by foreign trucks. With a road wear tax, Polish and Norwegian trucks will contribute to financing the infrastructure in Sweden. I think there is a certain point to that. With a road wear tax – depending on how it is designed – you could also have better control and compliance with foreign road hauliers. The unfair competition that Swedish road haulage sometimes faces in the case of foreign road hauliers engaged in illegal cabotage activities could be better followed up and better controlled. This would provide a better follow-up to cabotage rules. My question to Jan Ericson and Fredrik Schulte is of course: Why is it wrong that Polish, Norwegian and other foreign trucks are involved in contributing to the financing of the Swedish infrastructure?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-742	Madam President, I would like One might wonder what the Swedish haulage industry thinks about this. They're the ones who work with these questions every day. What do they think of this proposal? If it is as Magdalena Andersson says, that there will be more fair competition if the Polish, Norwegian and Danish haulage companies will be involved in paying on equal terms, the Swedish haulage industry should think that this is a great proposal. But now they don't really. They may not describe it as the blow of death, but rather a blow to the industry, which, as I have said, employs 100 000 people today and represents a large part of net exports, 100 billion. They believe that this is a disastrous proposal that will severely affect their competitive environment. According to them, there is no indication that a kilometre tax would be more accurate or work better and less subject to cheating than the current system. In particular, this will involve the imposition of more taxes on the haulage industry. This strikes the manufacturing industry and consumers, because in the end someone has to pay. It will affect Swedish competitiveness when it becomes more expensive for the manufacturing industry to export. It will be more expensive for consumers when the price of goods to be transported from where they are produced to shops will need to be increased to cover the costs of the new tax. If it were so amazing, it is strange that those who are working on this think exactly the opposite of what the Minister for Finance thinks. I would also like to say something about the Nordic welfare model. The Minister for Finance and the Social Democrats would like to have a conflict about the Nordic welfare model despite the fact that all parties in the Swedish parliament agree that we should strengthen the Swedish and Nordic welfare model. We're going to have more welfare. When Magdalena Andersson puts her teeth in the Moderate opposition budget, which will be in a week's time, she will be able to see that we invest more in welfare than the Social Democrats do. We prioritise the school over other welfare areas, but we are equally dedicated to strengthening Swedish welfare. What is, however, a threat to Swedish welfare is that people do not work and that taxes are too high so that it does not pay to go to work. The big threat is also that taxes are too high so that it does not pay to run companies or that taxes are too high to hit the Swedish manufacturing industry, which will be the effect of the kilometer tax. It hits consumption when the mileage tax has a full effect on the price of daily consumer goods. High taxes and dependency on benefits are the threat to Swedish welfare.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-749	Madam President, I would like I waited for the Minister of Finance to refer to the media data that the mileage tax is planned to cost not SEK 14 but 26. There wasn't a word. I quoted her when she told me about the ongoing injustice and rather ugly competition between foreign and Swedish hauliers. Sometimes this happens to them, she said. Sometimes. I have spoken to a lot of skiers, Madam President, and everyone attests unison that it is not sometimes, but it is always and constantly. The Minister for Finance then pointed out the wishes which are, of course, in theory. We can control traffic better, and we can do this or that, and she claims that foreign carriers can contribute to this. I am sorry to say that it will be difficult for the Minister for Finance to prove with facts that the foreign haulage companies operating in Sweden can contribute to Swedish welfare. On the other hand, she has not thought that this tax is, as it were, the reason why the slave contracts are increasing with regard to the owners of foreign haulage companies. In addition, those who spend hours without resting on Swedish roads will increase radically. I care above all about how the Swedish countryside is going, because I come from there. I care about Swedish jobs, about forestry and agriculture.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-754	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Finance says that it is good if Polish and Norwegian trucks also pay when they drive in Sweden. The only problem is that even a Polish or a Norwegian truck must somehow get the money that the kilometre tax costs. It is clear that foreign hauliers will also charge this in the form of higher prices for the transport they do. And then it hits Swedish companies and Swedish consumers. It is not the foreign hauliers who have to pay for the violins, of course, but they spend it as higher prices. And in what way does competition between Swedish and foreign hauliers improve just because everyone gets an equal tax increase? I cannot see how this would have a positive impact on competition at all. Furthermore, it is, of course, the case that the levying of mileage tax opens up new opportunities for cheating for the rogue foreign hauliers. Just look at what the congestion tax system looks like. Swedish road users can be automatically charged congestion tax, while foreign users get away because it is not possible to get it into the registers. That is exactly how it will be with the truck tax – the foreign people do not have to pay because it is not possible to collect the tax, and then it still hits the Swedish haulage companies harder and makes their competitiveness even more difficult. This welfare model thing is a little interesting. I do not believe that raising taxes is the only way to ensure welfare. In fact, we proved by the Alliance that it is possible to create more resources for welfare without raising taxes. We got more people to work, and that meant more people paying taxes, but each paid a little less. Overall, we received more tax, even though everyone got a little reduced tax per person. We've shown it's working. But the path that Magdalena Andersson is on now, to constantly raise taxes, leads the wrong way. Finally, we can rejoice with the new Government that the Moderates invest considerably more in school than the current government does.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-758	Madam President, I would like I would remind Jan Ericson that he spends 5 billion less on welfare next year than the government does. Of course, it would affect the school and risk having teachers laid off throughout the country. The Moderates have to decide what point of attack to have. First they say that the entire tax will be loaded onto households and Swedish companies and that they will get it more expensive. It is also said that it will affect the transport industry, so that they will have to lay off thousands of people. The two approaches are not quite compatible. Either you continue with the same amount of transport as before, and then it is households that have to pay, or the transport industry has problems with keeping the number of employees. It's a little hard to argue both things at the same time. The media assignments are difficult for me to comment on. It's not the government that's running the investigation. It's an independent investigation. We will, of course, wait until we receive the report. It is difficult to debate a proposal that does not yet exist. I hope, of course, that a system will be proposed in which foreign hauliers will have to pay. Our starting point when we wrote the directives was, of course, that there would be a system in which foreign hauliers would be involved in paying and thus also financing the Swedish infrastructure. It can improve the competitiveness of Swedish hauliers if we get a system where you can have better control than you have today. Some of the transponder systems on the continent offer a better opportunity to monitor rest periods and, in particular, cabotage rules. Such a system can strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. Then it is clear that the road wear tax can steer from truck to rail but also steer towards cleaner trucks. It is important that we do more to contribute to climate change. We need to reduce emissions. It seems that 2016 will be the hottest year ever. Then we need a good climate policy, and there the Moderates are unfortunately very empty.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-764	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson has increased the tax on petrol. She's increased the tax credit for ROT and RUT. She's raised taxes for ordinary people who work. She's raised taxes on hiring older people. She is now, together with her colleague Alice Bah Kuhnke, about to increase the tax on cinema visits, so that there is higher tax on cinema visits than on visits to, for example, the Dramatic Theatre. The government has raised a lot of taxes for thirty billion dollars. And now they are going to introduce another tax, namely the kilometre tax. In the world of Social Democrats, it is like these tax increases do not affect anyone. They just hang on, and then the money comes in to the state, with no negative effect. But in fact there is a negative effect with them. Somewhere, someone's gonna pay these taxes. It will hit jobs, and it will ultimately hit welfare. The very tax we have now discussed, the kilometre tax, is going to hit the haulage industry. According to the haulage industry itself, this will significantly impair their competitive potential. The Minister of Finance is here talking about transponder systems that will make it easy to tax foreign operators. To be somewhat sarcastic: No, it is completely unthinkable that the foreign players who cheat today will cheat with these transponder systems! There is an enormous naivety on the part of the Minister for Finance. This is a tax that will hit the manufacturing industry, which will transport its products to the railways or to ferry traffic and then export them. It will hit consumers and thus against consumption. This will adversely affect the Swedish economy. It will affect rural areas in particular, and it has very little climate effect. This is a really bad proposal.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-768	Madam President, I would like We have heard it before, and we hear it again: how the government's tax policy will destroy the country. One of the points of such a tax is precisely that we want to see more transfer of transport from truck to rail. At the same time, we strongly strengthen the maintenance of our railways; it is important for us to meet the climate challenge. But the Moderates are very empty when it comes to proposals to meet the climate challenge. It will also be interesting to see if the Moderates, who now sound very critical of our petrol tax increase, will propose in their budget motion that the petrol tax be reduced. Even with regard to other things that the Moderates have opposed, we will see if they propose reductions. We're all waiting with excitement. We've heard very harsh words. We have heard Fredrik Schulte stand here and say that thousands of young people are at risk of being laid off when the government removes the halving of employers' contributions for young people. What was the result, Fredrik Schulte? Well, youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. Fredrik Schulte has stood and said here that when we step off the job tax deduction and do not raise the cut-off point in the way that has been done before, people will not want to work anymore. However, the employment rate is the highest ever measured in an EU country. Now we hear Fredrik Schulte say that a lorry tax would be devastating for the Swedish economy. If this is as good a prediction as Fredrik Schultes's previous tax statements, this will lead to a very good development for the Swedish economy.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-772	Madam President, I would like Cecilia Magnusson has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen a lasting influence on the film industry's actors and how I intend to respond to Parliament's announcement to investigate the future role and organisation of the Swedish Film Institute. In the bill More film for more – a coherent film policy( 2015/ 16:132), the government emphasises the importance of close collaboration with the film industry. As in most other European countries, the film industry in Sweden relies on public support to operate and develop. Conversely, film policy depends on a viable industry. The film agreement has for a long time meant that a few actors in the film industry had a great influence on the design of film policy. At the same time, other operators have been excluded. With the transformation of film policy, more of the industry's players are given transparency and opportunity to influence. Collaboration will take place at different levels, both between the industry and political representatives, and between the industry and the Film Institute. On 22 June, with a view to developing the new forms of cooperation, the Board of Directors of the Film Institute issued a proposal for the composition, form and function of the Industry Councils. It is gratifying that many stakeholders have chosen to comment on the submitted proposal. I actively follow the ongoing work and have full confidence that the Film Institute will handle the views received and appoint industry councils that are representative and legitimate in the film industry. As Cecilia Magnusson states in her interpellation, the Film Institute plays a central role in the implementation of film policy. This has been the case since the 1960s, and this will also be the case after the change in film policy. The new film policy model has great similarities with how the state governs other cultural policy areas. The fact that sectoral authorities appoint members of their advisory bodies and develop indicators to meet the objectives set by the Government and the Riksdag is the rule rather than the exception. With the new film policy, the government's governance of the Film Institute becomes more similar to the governance of the cultural authorities. At the same time, the film industry's players have the opportunity to have more influence than those involved in other cultural policy areas. In 2013, Statskontoret made a review of the Film Institute's activities in the report Scener from a Film Institute(2013:8). During the term of office, the Government intends to launch a follow-up study which also includes an analysis of the Film Institute's organisational form in relation to the new film policy model.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-778	Madam President, I would like Eva Lohman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that rural study associations are not disadvantaged by the new allocation rules for grants to study associations. Folkbildning in the form of study associations and folk high schools has been a part of building and developing Sweden in many different ways and for a long time. Every year, education and training make very valuable contributions to providing people with opportunities for study and education. Study associations and folk high schools are also very important in our joint work on the establishment of newcomers in society and working life, as well as in strengthening and developing democracy. Folkbildningen is also Sweden's largest cultural arena. A key principle that has long been guiding is that peoples' education should be free and voluntary. This means, on the one hand, that people's education should in principle be free from political and commercial interference, and, on the other hand, that people's participation in the activities is based on voluntary activity. The state makes significant resources available to peoples' education every year. Municipalities and county councils also provide financial support. Since 1991 responsibilities have been shared so that the State sets out, by means of a regulation, the objectives of the state's contribution to the formation of the population. Associations of students and folk high schools then organise educational, educational and cultural activities that are to respond in different ways to the aims of the state. In guidelines to the Swedish Folkbildningsrådet, the Government requires accounting to enable the Government to monitor how well the activities organised correspond to the purposes of the financial support for public education that the State has set up. How resources are allocated between study associations and folk high schools and at each individual study association and folk high school is, however, a matter for folkbildning itself. The administration and distribution of the state grant is managed by the Council of Folkbildningsrådet on the basis of the regulation(2015:218) on state grants for the formation of people. The current principle of the division of responsibilities between the state and the formation of people, as well as the principle of free and voluntary formation, has broad political support and is also protected by the formation of peoples themselves. I intend to follow, through continued dialogue and business visits, the important work of public education in offering participants opportunities to study and improve, to grow and strengthen as people, to strengthen their position in the labour market, to improve opportunities for self-sufficiency and to channel different interests, such as aesthetic activities. I also intend to continue to work to ensure that the current division of responsibilities between the state and peoples' education is maintained, but also that peoples' education is given good opportunities to operate in different forms throughout the country.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-786	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming the Prime Minister to the House. I do not know whether this is the first debate, but it is the first debate that we have. It's not the last one, I promise. Welcome! I would also like to thank you for your answer. I share the Government's view that student associations and folk high schools are and have been very important actors in the construction of society. I also appreciate that education is free and that it is voluntary, as opposed to the youth school. Over the years, many people have increased their skills and been able to change their life situation thanks to study associations and folk high schools. Just as the Government says, public education has been an important part of building and developing Sweden. I myself have been in study circles, and I have acted as a circle leader. I know that the study associations have a very big role to play. I am thinking, for example, of lifelong learning and how new arrivals have been received, particularly in the past year. There are many who go into study circles in their free time. There were 275 000 study circles in 2014, I think it was, for about 1.7 million people. That's a lot. There were 20 million participants in various cultural programmes. The cultural component is also very important in the activities of study associations. That's good. It's even very good. Now comes a new model from 1 January 2017 where Folkbildningsrådet has a new distribution system. When I have spoken to various representatives of the study associations, they have expressed great concern. There will be a big change in the model. Some people think it's good, but others are worried. They are concerned about the possible consequences. There's a fear that you're not literally but figuratively supposed to kill each other. It's about the big ones killing the smaller, figuratively speaking. How should you relate to each other? Should you continue to be colleagues, or do you become competitors? All of us agree that it is important that the study associations exist in all parts of the country. So do they. They want to be in all municipalities and in sparsely populated and urban areas. This applies to both large and small. We have ten study associations in Sweden that operate more or less throughout the country. The study associations also want to be an actor to meet the new needs of society. This applies, for example, to what they have done excellently in the meeting with new arrivals, where they have made a great contribution. My question to the Government was whether the Government intends to take any measures to ensure that rural student associations are not disadvantaged. There is a great deal of concern here. In my county of Västernorrland and Sundsvall we have sparsely populated areas. Here there are concerns about the new distribution system. I think it is also found in other parts of the country in inland and sparsely populated areas. This applies to small towns with a low population. It may involve 5 000, 10 000 or 15 000 people and ten study associations.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-797	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Eva Lohman, for the welcome. This is my first interpellation debate in the Parliament's pulpit. Of course, it's a very big day for me. I have previously attended the parliamentary stenographer programme. I have then stenographed many interpellation debates and written a lot, Madam President. But I've never said that so far. Thank you for that opportunity. We seem to fully agree on the importance of education and on how important it is that it is managed from a bottom-up perspective. It is, of course, a question of peoples' movements in the true sense of the word, and I think it is very important that, in my role as Minister of State, I fully respect the fact that people's education should be managed by those who actually represent the business. There are many of them all over the country. I intend to make a real effort to ensure that the conditions for this are as good as possible. I would also like to point out that I think it is a good thing that the concrete decisions on how the participants and the democratically elected representatives are taken as closely as possible are taken. I do not intend to make any changes to the current model of responsibility, namely that the Council for Education and the various study associations take many of the decisions. I am also prepared that, in order to be able to function properly, people's education needs good resources. It will be fun to see how well the new resources in this year's budget can be used in the context of public education. I am thinking in particular of the important investment in Swedish from day one, which so far has reached a lot of new arrivals who have come to Sweden. I hear many statements myself about how well it has been received. Not least, I have heard from several SFI teachers how fun it is to welcome newly arrived students who have joined Swedish from day one and have already taken a big step in their language development. I therefore look forward with great interest to how Eva Lohman and the Moderates will strengthen the education of the people in the coming budgets of the Moderates, as Eva Lohman speaks so well of the need for the education of the people throughout the country.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-803	Madam President, I would like I'm gonna try to keep time a little better. I stayed in the middle of it. With the new allocation system, a certain volume is required to receive operating grants: 2 000 study hours and 100 unique participants. In sparsely populated areas, the distance is long – 10, 20, 300 km. It costs money, and the money is not enough if all ten study associations are to try to be in as many places as possible. The small study associations fear that they will not be able to do this. They will not be able to have 2 000 study hours and 100 unique participants if they are going to compete. In addition, it is the local presence that is rewarded in the distribution system, and the small study associations do not exist in these small towns. Today there is asylum money, but it must not be included in regular activities. After all, there are many new arrivals who participate in circles, and asylum money is a temporary contribution that will be cut from year to year. So it is not something that counts in normal activity. In the answer from the Government, I can read in the last paragraph that she will continue to work to ensure that the current division of responsibilities between the state and the education of the people is maintained. But it also says that peoples' education should be given good opportunities to operate in different forms throughout the country. That sounds soothing. Does this mean that the Government will take steps to ensure that all ten student associations have the opportunity to operate throughout the country so that all of Sweden can live?
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-807	Madam President, I would like As I have indicated in my response to the interpellation, I have great respect for the fact that the decisive decisions on how to make as close a decision as possible to the study associations and the Folkbildningsrådet. At the same time, the conditions for the operation are to a certain extent determined by the division of responsibilities we now have in the form of various government decisions. Of course, just as I have answers a t, I will follow these developments. But I would also like to stress that in this year's budget proposal, the government has proposed increased funds for public education, especially in relation to the investment in Swedish from day one. I think that's a very nice bet, and I get very much positive feedback from those who work with it. We also see the figures that this investment has reached a very large proportion of the new arrivals who have come to Sweden recently. The question is whether I will ensure that peoples' education can exist throughout the country, and my assessment is that the regulations we have and the missions that lie in really make it possible. I will, of course, follow this, but I also have the greatest respect for the Folkbildningsrådet and for the decisions taken within the framework of the system that exists. I have worked all my life in various forms of peoples' movements and know how important it is that a free, non-profit organization really can make decisions itself without too much pointers. I am also convinced that it is very positive for peoples' education that the study associations have taken on a great responsibility and work for peoples' education in Sweden. As I have written in the answer, I will follow this question, and I do not feel very concerned that we will see the disarmament of peoples. I also look forward to what I can read between the lines of the interpellation, namely an increased effort on the part of the Moderates for the funding of budgetary resources. All that the interpellier is asking for is a strong state funding of peoples' education.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-812	Madam President, I would like That sounds reassuring. I very much hope that the Government will follow this so that it will not be the case that the small study associations leave sparsely populated areas because they do not have the opportunity to get together the hours and volume required for the operating grants that allow them to exist: 2 000 hours and 100 unique participants. It's a lot in a small town. This applies above all to cultural activities, which the study associations are also good at. What I have said about the volume and the concerns of the small study associations is also mentioned in Statskontoret's first report on public education. There you look at the new allocation of funds from the Folkbildningsrådet. It can be seen that many express concern about what will happen in the future. Will the small unions be able to remain in sparsely populated areas, or will they be knocked out by the big ones? Local presence is also a prize. I know that, for example, a study association like NBV in Västernorrland, or Mittsverige as it is now called, has a lot of rural activities. They also use many new arrivals in their operations; 34 per cent of new arrivals work as circular leaders, for example. The cut is 8%, so it's very good. But they and other smaller study associations are concerned that they will not be able to meet the volume: 2 000 hours and 100 unique participants. But it feels safe to hear that the Government will follow this and make it work for everyone.
i-15dfe12e083e9e7a-816	Madam President, I would like I'm glad Eva Lohman feels a sense of security. Maybe I don't feel as much security. I have now offered Eva Lohman the opportunity, in two successive lines, to describe the budgetary initiatives that the Moderates will make on the education of the people. I have not yet received any response to that opportunity to describe the policy of the Moderates. However, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to respond to this interpellation. For me, it's very funny that my first interpellation response was about the important and crucial education of the people. It gave me an opportunity to describe how important I think it is that decisions in peoples' education are made as close to the study associations and activities as possible and also how important it is that we make sure that we invest in peoples' education, not least for the sake of the many new arrivals. Thank you for the opportunity to respond to this interpellation in my first interpellation debate!
