i-AaonNtB2GyJah8CxrJnwAN	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve has asked me why a Member of Parliament cannot take part in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' internal review of Sweden's Western Sahara policy, as well as about the guidelines for the mission and the selection of actors that the investigator has met enabling a correct analysis and assessment of the Western Sahara issue. Lotta Johansson Fornarve has also asked me whether Sweden in the UN will work actively to ensure that the referendum decided in 1991 will take place as soon as possible and to extend the mandate of MINURSO to include monitoring of human rights. The document requested by Lotta Johnsson Fornarve contains information classified under Chapter 15. Section 1 Publicity and Confidentiality Act. The Government decided on 18 February 2016 that the document could not be disclosed in its entirety. According to the Act on Publicity and Confidentiality, confidentiality does not prevent documents from being submitted to the Riksdag, but individual members of parliament have no right to access confidential information. The overall purpose of the screening – an analysis of Sweden's Western Sahara policy and recommendations for how this policy can be developed – set the framework for the implementation of the study. The guidelines for the mission were broad, and the list of conditions to be studied was not exhaustive. Nor is the list of operators consulted in the framework of the review mentioned in the summary exhaustive. The holding of a referendum is part of Minurso's mandate, on which the UN Security Council decided in 1991. In the light of the parties' irreconcilable positions on the conditions, inter alia, of a referendum, the Security Council decided in 2007 to call on the parties to enter into direct political negotiations. Sweden supports the Security Council's decision as well as the renewed efforts of the UN Secretary-General and the Secretary-General's Special Envoy for Western Sahara, Christopher Ross, to find a fair, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution to the right of the Western Sahara to self-determination. At the same time, I would like to point out that a heavy responsibility rests with the parties to the conflict to contribute to a negotiated solution. Sweden prioritises human rights work in our relations with both Morocco and Polisario and is also a driving force within the EU in this area. As is well known, no MR component is included in Minurso's mandate. An initiative to extend the mandate in this direction was last taken by the US in 2013; however, support for the initiative was lacking in the UN Security Council.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-3	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer to my interpellation on Sweden's Western Sahara policy! When Sweden got a new government in 2014, I was filled with hope that it would take the Western Sahara issue seriously and implement the 2012 parliamentary decision to recognise Western Sahara. I recently visited the Sahrawi refugee camps in the Sahara desert in southern Algeria, where people have lived under very difficult conditions for over 40 years. All I met, from the woman in the tent to the Västsaharian Foreign Minister, expressed the hope that Sweden as the first western country would take the lead and recognise Western Sahara. Increased recognition would have given the refined Sahrawi people an increased faith in the future and fortify peace and security in the region. Now, instead, the Swedish Government has betrayed the Sahrawi people. What is the reason for this turnaround is difficult to grasp, because much of the investigation of Fredrik Florén, which forms the basis of the decision, is secret a. I still find it remarkable that, as a Member of Parliament, I have not had access to the complete file. I understand now that I can request the documents through the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, which I will do as soon as possible. However, the summary shows that the investigator has not visited the occupied Western Sahara. Western Saharas living in the occupied part of the country are subjected to systematic and well-documented violations of human rights, as confirmed by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. How can the reporter get a correct picture of the situation in the occupied Western Sahara without visiting the area? Right now, there is a hunger strike on the part of 13 Sahrawi political prisoners who, after torture, have been sentenced in a military court to between 20 years' imprisonment and life for demanding social rights and for the the theft of Western Sahara's natural resources to end. These prisoners are a clear example of the abuses that are constantly taking place right before our eyes in today's Morocco. It is also remarkable that the report does not make a clear condemnation of Morocco's occupation and of the systematic violations of human rights against the Sahrawi people. Nor has Fredrik Florén met representatives of the African Union. After all, Western Sahara, or the Saharian Arab Democratic Republic, SADR, is a member of the African Union, which is a very important political player for regional cooperation in Africa. This, too, seems to me to be a shortcoming of the report. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has admittedly said that the decision not to recognise Western Sahara was taken on the basis of a comprehensive political assessment. At the same time, the assertion that criteria of international law are lacking for recognition has played a central role. Only in November, three of the world's top experts in international law and international law wrote at DN Debate that international law does not prevent recognition of Western Sahara. On the contrary, the legal conditions are similar to those that existed when we have recognised Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Palestine. It is remarkable, then, that a single investigator comes to the contrary. In her reply, Margot Wallström says that Sweden supports the Security Council's decision and the renewed efforts now being made to find a fair, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that meets the right of the Western Saharas to self-determination. This is good. However, it is not enough just to support the Security Council, but Sweden must also make clear demands and work actively at the UN to bring about a solution, where the demand for a referendum as soon as possible is central. It is also high time that the UN and Sweden made clear demands on Morocco, which is the party that systematically complicated and sabotaged the UN's work.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-14	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve! I would like to take this opportunity to tell you a little bit about how we are now working on the Western Sahara issue. When we had taken office as a new government, we immediately devoted time to Western Sahara, unlike the previous government. A review of the Swedish Western Sahara policy was initiated, and as Lotta knows, it was handed over to me in mid-January. What we are doing now is stepping up support for the UN process in order to find a fair, mutual and accepted solution to the conflict. The support is both political and humanitarian, and it can be summarised in five points. Firstly, we want to strengthen the UN's efforts to facilitate a negotiated solution. Secondly, we want continued commitment to compliance with international law. Thirdly, increased humanitarian aid is being considered. Fourthly, there is a commitment to high-level contacts with the parties. I met Polisario myself the other week and look forward to further contacts. Fifthly, we want a commitment to promote dialogue between the parties. I have spoken with Morocco in various contexts. A few weeks ago I also accepted Polisario at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a longer meeting. It was a constructive meeting. Sweden continues to support the right of the Western Saharas to self-determination. We have had good relations with Polisario for several years. We will also continue to support the Sahrawi people and engage in dialogue with Polisario on how Sweden can best contribute. I would also like to emphasise that the position of the government is, of course, that international law must be respected and respected. Let me also say that, of course, it matters how the African Union stands and how the European Union stands. We also know that France and South Africa have important roles right now. As far as the criteria of international law are concerned, an overall assessment must also be made politically. What's the way forward? For recognition, international law imposes three requirements: the existence of a territory and a population and the effective control of the territory by a State. The government's assessment, as the investigator has said, is that the Saharian Arab Democratic Republic does not exercise effective control over the majority of the territory and the population living there. In the case of Western Sahara, the territory in question is largely controlled by Morocco. One can also argue about the differences in Palestine. There are major differences in terms of Palestine, which has been considered, as it were, to be considered state-owned by a number of different bodies. It is important to be clear about international law, but the overall assessment must be a political assessment that takes into account all these different factors.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-22	Mr President, I would like to I find it rather remarkable that these experts on international law and international law have a different view and make the assessment that the grounds of international law for recognition are there anyway. We know that recognition would mean a great deal to advance the position of Western Sahara. It is good that Sweden wants to intensify its work at the UN. It is good that there is constant contact with both parties, and it is good that we want to strengthen humanitarian aid. That's a good thing. Nevertheless, I think it is very important to see that it is Morocco that is the difficult party here. Morocco is not interested in finding a solution to the Western Sahara issue. Instead, everything is being done to sabotage and complicate the work of the United Nations. Morocco has blocked the UN Special Envoy for Western Sahara, Christopher Ross, from visiting the area for a long time. They did their best to prevent visits by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon. A number of international observers have also been stopped from visiting Western Sahara, including a broad Swedish delegation that I myself joined last spring, under the leadership of the Christian Peace Movement. It is important that Sweden is very clear that Morocco has no right whatsoever to the occupied Western Sahara. The area is designated as a non-self-governing territory by the UN, and Morocco cannot claim to this area under international law. The Moroccan occupation is contrary to decisions of the UN and the International Court of Justice in The Hague. No country in the world has recognised Morocco's right to the country either. A clear example of Morocco's unwillingness to find a solution is the treatment to which UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon was subjected when he recently visited the region. Ban Ki Moon was not allowed to visit the occupied Western Sahara and was also met by a demonstration in Morocco that was clearly organised from the highest point. Ban Ki Moon was extremely upset and felt that Morocco's actions were disrespectful both to him as a person and to the entire UN. Now Morocco has also decided to withdraw its support for the UN peacekeeping force Minurso, which must be described as a desperate provocation. It is an act that is totally unacceptable. For 25 years, the UN Security Council has been trying to implement its decolonisation plan for Western Sahara, which was accepted by both Polisario and Morocco in 1991. Since then, however, Morocco has prevented the referendum and has been refusing to accept an independent Western Sahara since 2004. Time is running out, and there is a risk that the ceasefire that exists since 1991 will be broken. It is therefore high time that the UN acted forcefully and began to speak clearly against Morocco. If Morocco does not want to negotiate, the Security Council must now take matters into its own hands and start preparing for a referendum. Mrs Wallström says that we should step up work at the UN. I hope that it will indeed be done so that this referendum can be held as soon as possible. The UN Force MINURSO is the only peacekeeping force without a mandate to monitor and prevent human rights violations. This means that the Sahrawi population in occupied territory is completely unprotected. A Sahrawi nomad was shot dead as late as last week without the UN force acting. It is of the utmost importance that Sweden should act to extend the mandate of Mr Minurso to include human rights and that demands should be made for Morocco not to withdraw its support to Mr Minurso. It is also central that Sweden defends Western Sahara's right to its natural resources. Against this background, it is incomprehensible that Sweden has acceded to the EU Member States' appeal against the Court of Justice's decision to suspend all trade agreements with Morocco which include products from the part of Western Sahara occupied by Morocco.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-32	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with a great deal, as Lotta Fornarve says. Nevertheless, it has been good to see that it has been moving in the UN lately. Recently Ban Ki Moon came home from a trip to Western Sahara. It was 18 years since the UN Secretary General was there the last time his name was Kofi Annan. It was 1998. For 18 years, a lot of things can happen. A newborn baby has time to be of age. On the Western Sahara issue, little has happened. It is true that it can eventually become dangerous, because one feels a great desperation. It is therefore essential that we engage constructively and try to find a way forward. The Secretary-General gave several reasons for the trip. He said he wanted to make his own assessment and contribute to a solution to the conflict. He said he wanted to visit Minurso, of course, and himself witness what he called one of the forgotten tragedies of our time. Lotta Fornarve knows that these refugee camps are among the oldest in the world by now. The secretary-general himself has talked about how devastating it is to see that families have been separated for so long. This is a totally unacceptable situation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden supports the UN's work. We are in contact with what we can provide as a country. It is always a question of assessing: what is the most important thing we can do at this time? How do we help? And how do we support the UN process? It is also important to assess politically what is the wisest. I can only agree with the Secretary-General's words on the conflict. He said: I was very saddened to see so many refuges and, especially, young people who were born there. The children who were born at the beginning of this occupation are now 40 or 41 years old. So forty years of a very difficult life. I really wanted to give them a sense of hope that this not the end of the world for them. I was concerned that if they know that this is the end of their world, then what will happen to their future? We have to bring them, first of all, lifesaving support and a sense of bower hope for their better future. ..................................................... It focuses on young people and on those who need to hope for a better future. That, of course, is what should drive us and guide us in what we are doing right now. It is not easy, and we have seen that there have also been strong reactions to the UN Secretary-General's trip. However, we can only encourage those who now have an important role to play, not least France and other countries, when they influence Morocco into a constructive approach through bilateral contacts. Both parties are needed here to hopefully negotiate a way forward. We welcome the increased commitment of the UN. We will be committed to all five areas that I have identified. We believe that this is the wisest way forward, and we will continue to have contact with, of course, both Polisario and Morocco to ensure that we take one step at a time. Thank you for the debate.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-38	Mr President, and the Minister. Of course, it was very important that Ban Ki Moon finally visited the area. At the same time, however, it was unfortunate that he was not allowed to enter the occupied Western Sahara. We also see Morocco's reaction to the visit. This clearly shows that Morocco is very reluctant to find a solution. That is why it is important that we tighten up our tone towards Morocco and increase pressure on Morocco. That's where the brake pad is. It is about bringing about this referendum. The referendum is the natural instrument of the Sahrawi people in exercising their right to self-determination under the United Nations system of decolonisation. A Swedish recognition could have broken the standstill that currently prevails in the decolonisation process, although some things are beginning to happen, and given Western Sahara an increased opportunity to meet Morocco as an equal party. I would therefore appeal to the government to reconsider the decision and to recognise Western Sahara as soon as possible. In the meantime, it is essential that we vigorously step up the work at the UN. I hope that we will indeed do so, so that this referendum, as was agreed in 1991, will take place, and that we are also working for Minurso to have an extended mandate to include monitoring of human rights. I would like to conclude by referring to what Ban Ki Moon said after his recent visit to the Sahrawi refugee camps. He said something like this: What really touched me and grieved me was the anger that came upon me. Many express their anger. People who for more than 40 years have lived under the most difficult conditions feel that their situation and thing have been forgotten by the world. Understandably, they're angry. That's what Ban Ki Moon said.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-41	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me how I intend to ensure that medical age assessments resume and when we can expect that to happen. Initially, it can be noted that medical age assessments are carried out, albeit to a small extent. However, it has been difficult for a long time to get these implemented, inter alia, due to a lack of tenders from relevant operators. It is therefore important to find a better system for carrying out medical age assessments. In 2012, the National Board of Health and Welfare issued recommendations on how medical age assessments should be carried out. According to the recommendations, an initial pediatric examination should be supplemented by X-ray examinations of the glove and teeth. A coherent medical assessment based on these opinions should then be carried out by specialists. In practice, few medical age assessments have been carried out depending on lock-ups between different actors, disagreement on interpretation preference and how the outcome of the medical age assessment should be assessed together with other evidence and investigation. The National Board of Health and Welfare is currently looking at the guidelines for medical age assessment on its own initiative. A scientific review of methods for age assessment shall be presented in April. The question of whether an asylum seeker is under or over 18 years of age is important, not only in relation to the issue of residence permits but also in relation to housing and care. For example, it is not appropriate for adult asylum seekers to live with unaccompanied children in children's homes, and resources allocated to children should not go to adult asylum seekers. An assessment of the age must therefore be made when the asylum seeker cannot make his age likely and there are doubts about the age indicated. A medical age assessment can contribute to the data base and support the applicant for the data on age provided. Against this background, the government has raised the level of ambition in terms of age assessments. The Finnish Immigration Service has been tasked with increasing the assessment of the age of unaccompanied minors during registration and review in the regulations for 2016. By 4 May at the latest, the Authority shall report to the Government Office on the measures taken and planned. There is also intensive work going on within the Government Office to find a system for more medical age assessments of asylum seekers. The government intends to return to this issue in the near future.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-47	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It is also nice to see that so many listeners follow this discussion! I have written this interpellation for the reason that we have a completely new situation regarding the unaccompanied young people who have come to Sweden. As you know, there were 35 000 last year – in just one year. We give special rights and special benefits in Sweden to those under the age of 18. There are different types of grants, especially accommodation etc. It is perfectly reasonable that this is the case. But it also means that it can be more beneficial for the individual to actually state an age less than 18 years of age than the actual age. This is what this interpellation is about. Sweden's refugee policy is based on several important principles. An important principle of this kind is that resources intended for children should go to children and not to adults. Anyone older than 18 years of age may, of course, apply for asylum and should be tried on that basis, but then as an adult and not as a child. It is also the case that a child who comes to Sweden after perhaps travelling over half the world without his parents to get here is often in a rather vulnerable situation. What happens if there is a crime against a child in an HVB home like this by a person older than 18 years of age? If so, what responsibility do we, as politicians, have for the situation that has arisen? I raised this already last autumn, and unfortunately we have since received a number of very tragic examples of this happening in several places around Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I believe that Sweden can learn a lot from our neighbours. I compared the figures from 2014 to Denmark, Finland and Norway, and it became apparent that medical age assessments were carried out on one in three unaccompanied minors in Denmark and Finland. In fact, in Norway it happened to three out of four young people. In the Finnish Immigration Service's annual report we see that there were only 208 cases, which means that about 3 out of 100 people are assessed here in Sweden using medical methods. If we look at our neighbours, we also see that there are many more corrections to age than we do in Sweden. Here's 1 out of 20. In Denmark it is about one in four and in Norway one in three. It can be said that it has also gone further. You have a working order. I think it is good that the government now seems to have the same view. It is untenable that it looks as it does today. I note, as mentioned in the reply, that this is highlighted in the regulation letter for 2016. At the same time, it was removed in 2015. It is therefore a step forward but from a very low level. I think it was unfortunate that this happened, partly because there were 35 000 people, and partly because the Migration Agency just a few months later completely stopped carrying out these assessments on its own. I would like to know why the government made that decision at the time. We from the Moderates have suggested that the Migration Agency, for example, could hire its own doctors to do this. There is today a special ID unit that examines documents at the Migration Agency, and it would be perfectly possible to have a unit also with regard to medical age assessments that are completely separate from the asylum processing units. I think that these assessments should be carried out regularly when age is uncertain. I would also like to know, on the basis of the answer, when the Government believes that we can have a working order in place in Sweden.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-59	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation is very important, because it raises a problem such as those who work in the field, on accommodation and on various social units in the municipalities around Sweden have seen for a very long time. I am convinced that also the Minister for Migration, Johan Forssell, myself, Vice-President Tobias Billström earlier and everyone else who has visited accommodation receive signals that there are people who come to Sweden and say that they are younger than 18 years old, although they are older. It is therefore very strange that there has not been a system where there is a broader and better supplementary basis for determining the age of the persons. It is just as Johan Forssell describes: If you are under the age of 18, you have a number of advantages in Swedish asylum policy. It is easier to reunite with your parents, it is easier to stay in Sweden, it is another type of accommodation and so on. This means that there can be incentives for people to actually declare a lower age, and we must dare to admit that this may be the case. This does not mean that all young people who come to Sweden alone say that they are younger than they are. That is absolutely not the case. But there are a number who do, and then it is important that medical age assessments can be made as part of getting a broader basis for making a more correct decision. It is not just about being able to determine whether a person is over 18 years old, but it is also about the legal certainty of an asylum seeker's unaccompanied boy, which it is usually, to be able to get his right guaranteed if he is actually under 18 years of age but the Migration Board claims something else. This is therefore going in both directions. For the Liberals, the perspective of children's rights is also very important. In Sweden we make a difference between children and adults. Children have special rights. Adults have special obligations towards children. If we have a situation out there with young girls and boys of 13, 14 and 15 years of age mixed with people over 20 years of age, and then as there may be less staffing, it is certainly not satisfactory. Children's rights perspective is also about channeling resources correctly. Resources to go to children should not end up with people over the age of 18. Therefore, the assessments are important. I also think it was clear from the Government's reply that the Government shares our basic position on the matter. The medical age assessments are not entirely watertight. We know that. That is why we should use the word assessment and not determination, I understand. These are assessments. By x - raying wisdom and making a medical assessment, you can determine with about 90 percent certainty whether a person is over or under 18 years of age. It can complement other parts. Why can we not investigate the possibility of allowing doctors in other countries, such as our Nordic neighbours, to make the medical assessments that Swedish doctors refuse to make? Nevertheless, it is urgent that medical age assessments be made.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-67	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that it is important that we get the age assessments made. It is important that we get things right on this issue. Among other things, it is the starting point that no children should be treated as adults. No adults should be treated as children either. That is what we must ensure. This is important in terms of asylum procedures and in terms of resource use, as Johan Forssell pointed out, and it is perhaps even more important from a security point of view. It is not appropriate for adults to live in children's homes. We must ensure that age assessments can be made. Fredrik Malm said it was strange that there is no order in place. I agree that this is strange. Rather, it may not be so terribly strange. This is one of the old sourdoughs the old government left behind. The reason we are there is the new guidelines that came in 2012 from the National Board of Health and Welfare. They made the question totally stalled. There is a group of pediatricians who do not want to be involved in the assessments. With the new guidelines from the National Board of Health and Welfare, doctors were in principle given a right of veto against age assessments, which meant that it became more difficult and difficult to implement them. What did the old government do in 2012 to solve those knots? Nothing. What did the old government do in 2013 to solve the knots? Nothing. What did the old government do in 2014 to solve the knots? Nothing. This is one of the tasks we have had to take on in order to find a system and a solution to. I have good hopes that we will be able to do this. I talked about in my answer The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's project to develop a better and legally secure method. I met with the National Board of Health and Welfare two weeks ago. Next month, in April, if the planning lasts – nothing speaks against this – the National Board of Health and Welfare will go out with its results. A new and more legal-proof method has been developed with a smaller span. It should be a more secure method of knowing just how old the young people are. Technology has been modernised. Work must be done on the method in April– in any case there must be a proposal. Then there must be an organisation in place. The Finnish Immigration Service, together with any other actor, must ensure that the work begins. There has been talk of the type of effort that needs to be made. In our planning, we are now thinking of the Forensics Agency, which can build up such a capacity so that you can join the Migration Agency and carry out the age assessments. I see that this year we will have a working order. It is certainly important that it be put in place. There are many asylum trials ahead of us. In addition, I would like to say that it is important not only to get such a system in place but also that the assessment can be made earlier in the process, preferably already in connection with people being placed in accommodation. Now the examination often takes place much later at the asylum examination itself. But from a safety point of view, it is good to do the age assessment earlier.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-76	Mr President, I would like to I think the Minister for Migration is a little bit on the truth in his history. Certainly more medical age assessments should have taken place during the time of the Alliance in power, but they actually did. They took place in a significantly larger proportion of the applicants because there were considerably fewer people to Sweden. What Morgan Johansson then did when he stepped into Rosenbad as new Minister for Migration was that in the regulation letter to the Migration Agency he completely deleted the wording of increasing the use of medical age assessments. It wasn't there that year. I think Morgan Johansson should be careful to say that others have not done enough, given how this government itself acted when it was given the opportunity to influence. I find today's order strange. Basically, the burden of proof in terms of age lies with the individual. It's natural. The problem today is that the Migration Board accepts the stated age if it is not obvious that you are older than 18 years of age. The problem is that it is difficult for anyone to look at a person and say that the person is 18, 20, 22 or 16. The principle that the burden of proof is on the individual must also apply in practice. One must be able to strengthen one's age if it is not obvious that one is under 18 years of age. It is exactly the opposite of today. If you can't support the age of an ID card– few people are in the system who have brought an ID– this should be done by means of an age assessment. As long as it does not happen, and when practice looks like it does, we believe that the Migration Agency should control age, or assess probability, in far more cases than today. This should actually be done for all those who are in the grey area. We suggested this autumn that the Migration Agency should be able to employ its own doctors here and now. I'm aware there's work going on at the National Board of Health and Welfare. We'll see what comes out of that work. However, as I pointed out earlier last autumn with regard to the recommendation made by the National Board of Health and Welfare at the time – and it still applies today – there are no formal obstacles to its use. Sometimes it sounds like it would be a completely empty field, that there is nothing to rely on. In fact, there is a recommendation, and it also applies today. How does the Government view the model that the Migration Agency should take back responsibility for making these assessments? We do not know how many, but we know that there are people who come to Sweden and state a wrong age. Sometimes it may be because they do not know how old they are themselves, but I think in most cases there are incentives of different kinds for them to say that they are younger than they really are. Does the Government consider that there will be consequences if a conscious declaration of an incorrect age is made? Even if the right to asylum is fundamental, there could be a reduction in compensation so that there should always be incentives to state the correct age from day to day.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-83	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. It is, of course, a good thing to try to speed up the process. Then the Government has a coalition partner in the government to convince. It could get a little tougher. The truth is, I believe, that we all need to reflect on the advantages and disadvantages of Swedish migration policy in the broad sense and the responsibility of our respective parties for the fact that we now find ourselves in a situation where we are forced into many panic attacks. At the same time, when we look at this specific situation, we see that the influx of unaccompanied young people, mainly boys, was significantly lower three or five years ago than it is now. We had an extremely special situation last autumn, which is in danger of continuing and which I believe has raised this issue more than before. Not least, more and more people have become aware of this problem since last autumn. But the question remains. If there are guidelines from our authorities that are based on being able to carry out medical age assessments after first a pediatric examination and then an age assessment in public dental care, it is very strange if no doctors want to do this. Then there are doctors in our neighbouring countries, for example, who should be able to carry out these medical assessments just as well so that they are at least done.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-88	Mr President, I would like to The problem was that the guidelines drawn up by the National Board of Health and Welfare in 2012 meant that the opinion that children's doctors should give after a conversation was what would guide the court and the Migration Agency. The medical assessment, i.e. the X-rays themselves, would not be part of that evidence. That's how the setup was, and that's what made the whole question go backwards. From 2012 onwards, it became more difficult and difficult to make age assessments. That's just what happened. In the end, the Migration Agency had to give up. This was done in the autumn of 2015 because you simply did not get any age assessments done. It doesn't really matter what's in the letter of regulation-- if you don't get the age assessments done because you don't get anyone to do them, well, then you're standing there. My criticism of the old government earlier was that it did not take hold of this already in 2012 and 2013, when it was still seen that it became more difficult and more difficult to get the age assessments done. Let's unlock those knots. The National Board of Health and Welfare is developing a method that is more legally secure than the previous one, which we know has been criticised for having an excessive span – plus minus two years. You can see that's a concern. Now you have a new technology in the pipeline that makes you have a more reliable method where the span is smaller. I am convinced that it will work. At the same time, you review your own guidelines, which is very important. When it comes to who is going to do this, I believe in a collaboration between the Migration Agency and, as I said in my previous line, the National Board of Forensics. We are on our way with missions to the two authorities to ensure that the system starts to work. I have quite good hopes that we will be able to make this work already this year, hopefully already at the beginning of autumn. But this requires that both the technology and the new organization are in place. The situation is that; we agree on that. We have to make the system work. I would also like to ensure that we can bring the age assessments forward so that they do not take place in the final stage, that is, during the asylum examination itself, but already in connection with coming to Sweden. It is of course of great importance for the type of accommodation you are placed on, not least from a safety point of view.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-96	Mr President, I would like to I don't think it doesn't matter what's in the regulatory letter. That's how the government controls its authorities. Therefore, I found it regrettable that Morgan Johansson and the government deleted this in the then regulation letter. It sent out a very unfortunate signal, especially in the light of the arrival of 35 000 unaccompanied minors in the same year and the fact that that very year the Migration Board announced that it would stop doing so. At the same time, I think it is a good thing that the government should include wording in this year's regulatory letter. That's good. It puts pressure on the authorities. This means that the government points with the whole hand and describes what is important and what to work with. That is my position on the regulatory letters. We will see what this leads to. I think it seems to me that the Government is quite optimistic, and I very much welcome that. We need these assessments now, not only for those who come to Sweden now, but because we have a very large number of young people – and adults, I think – who are already in the system. So we have a large stock of people that we have to work off, and we need to get this in place as soon as possible. I will follow this with great interest in the future. I also wonder how the Government views the issue of those who deliberately state the wrong age. After all, there are times when ID documents are produced later or that they themselves tell you that they have a different age. I think it is a very important principle that, right from the start, there are strong incentives to always say as it is. You should state the correct age regardless of whether it is 16, 18 or 20 years old. Is the government prepared to look at whether it could have any consequences if you do not state the right age?
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-101	Mr President, I would like to As Johan Forssell has noted, I am quite optimistic that we will be able to get a system in place that is more legally secure than the previous one and that will work, in contrast to the previous one. What I said about the regulatory letter is that it doesn't matter what you write in letters if you don't get someone to actually deliver what you want. The background that I pointed out was precisely that: The guidelines drawn up by the National Board of Health and Welfare built in contradictions and locks, which the old government did not care at all about unlocking. We are doing so now, and it is high time we got this right. When it comes to the question of how to assess whether the individual does not state the right age, the burden of proof is on the individual. When an asylum examination is carried out, it is one who should make it likely that you have a need for protection and what age you have. The age assessment is in that sense an offer to the individual to prove his/her task. If you do not take that offer, you will of course find it more difficult to make your claims likely, and it is taken into account in the assessment that the Migration Agency makes regarding the asylum examination. As I said, I have quite good hopes that we will be able to get this right, and as soon as possible. Already this year we will get both the system and the organisation in place. I hope that we will also be able to get the volume of age determinations. We need that now because there were so many last year.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-105	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell has asked me about 100 000 asylum seekers to Sweden in 2016 according to my assessment is too much for Sweden's reception to take place. Furthermore, he has asked me whether I am prepared to take the initiative for more measures aimed at reducing the number of asylum seekers in Sweden and whether I still support the agreement reached between the government and the alliance parties. Work is under way to implement the agreement on action in response to the refugee crisis agreed by the government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. The monitoring of the work is carried out jointly and continuously. The government has introduced border control at internal borders. Furthermore, the Government has introduced identity checks for passengers on buses, trains and ferries from Denmark to Sweden until 4 July 2016. The identity checks may be extended six months at a time for three years from the entry into force of the Act. The Government is also working on temporarily adapting the Swedish asylum rules to a minimum level in relation to international conventions and EU legislation. The background is that Sweden has taken a huge responsibility for people fleeing war and oppression. In parallel, the Government works with measures to streamline reception, improve establishment and limit cost development. The government is in favour of a common asylum policy within the EU which provides for a more even distribution of asylum seekers. A sustainable solution in which Member States share responsibility for receiving persons in need of protection depends on strengthening the external border, so that checks and registration are actually carried out on entry. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecast is uncertain. If the measures taken and a confirmed are not enough, the government is prepared to do more to ensure that we have a sustainable asylum reception in Sweden. I am therefore, of course, following developments very closely.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-111	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for this answer too. As everyone knows, we have had a very serious refugee crisis, and it is still very difficult. It is, of course, the toughest and cruelest for the individual who gets caught and who flees either from war and oppression or to a better everyday life. But countries, too, have been greatly affected by this. Sweden has now received a quarter of a million asylum seekers in two years. Our reception capacity is currently very strained, not to say that it is in the bottom. At the same time, we see that the momentum to get across the Mediterranean is still very strong. More people came in January of this year than they did last year. There are also several hundred thousand unregistered migrants in Germany. And the numbers differ a little here, but there are at least a lot of people on Greek soil. It is precisely today that there is great hope that a European solution can be found. It is still a little uncertain what is actually going to happen. Anyone who has followed migration policy in the EU knows that the difficult thing here is not to agree, but the difficult thing is to implement and deliver what has been agreed. Much of the problem with migration policy in Sweden is that it has always been a step behind. Almost panicatic reforms and changes have been carried out, rather than thinking about what possible developments may be, and what reforms are needed if they are not as we hope, but as we hope they will not be. A clear example of the turn of the government this autumn is that the asylum rules are aligned with the EU minimum level, as the Government states in its response. I want to make it clear that I think it was the right decision of the government, and I have also made that point. But I think that a lot of people find it a little strange that we have a prime minister who is at a large public meeting in the middle of Stockholm and is talking about not building walls, just a few weeks later introducing ID checks and rules adapted to the EU's minimum level. It's not consistent. It won't be clear. And I believe that politics here must be clear to the Swedish people, but also, of course, to the fugitive. You have to know in advance what applies as best you can. I have put this interpellation on account of the Migration Agency's calculation option, which came recently, which says that there can be somewhere between 70 000 and 140 000 people who apply to Sweden only in 2016. There is a great deal of uncertainty, but this is still what the Migration Board describes. In the past, I have at least understood that the Minister for Migration shares my view that it will not work with another 140 000 people who are going to Sweden this year – this in the light of housing shortages, running costs and what is the big challenge in the short term, namely inadequate integration, and we are only standing at the beginning of these problems. At the same time I get a little unsure when I read the interpellation answer, which I think is rather fuzzyly formulated. There is no mention of the possibility of suppressing the search pressure in the future, but it says that we should have a sustainable asylum reception. I think all people are willing to do that. The only question is: What does it mean for the government to have a sustainable reception? If the situation requires it, is the government prepared to take further measures to reduce the number of people seeking asylum in Sweden? If so, what kind of situation would it be?
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-122	Mr President, I would like to Now I do not know if the Moderates are the right party to question the consistency of other parties. The Moderates are a party that has turned 180 degrees on the barely 18 months since the Alliance lost the election, from Fredrik Reinfeldt's open hearts – we all remember – to Johan Forsell's closed borders. You have gone from an ultra-liberal approach, as you had in the previous government, to such a restrictive approach that it may even conflict with European law. In addition, you have swung about the issues that have now taken effect. We introduced the ID checks on 4 January. And I remember very well the debate we had here just before Christmas about the ID controls. After all, you were unable to even vote in favour of the ID checks, but you were unable to vote against them either. One day, your message to us was that you volunteered for the ID checks. Then a few days passed. Then you said, "I don't think we can be in on this anyway." It then ended with your abstention. Now I hear in the discussion here that you are concerned that the ID controls, which you were unable to vote for, may not be effective enough. As I said, this is not exactly the consequence of the Moderates in this situation. You are swaying in your positions from one extreme to the other. We saw last autumn how the increase in refugees continued. We were up to over 10,000 a week. Then we said: There is a limit also for Sweden. We need to keep the pressure down. As a result of the border controls, which we introduced on 12 November, as a result of the ID checks, which we introduced on 4 January, and as a result of the fact that we said that we need to adapt the legislation to the minimum level of the European Union, we can now see a very clear effect. From about 10,000 a week, which was the highest figure in November, we are down this year in figures of about 500 - 600 a week. It is well below previous years' records. Should it last – 500 – 600 per week – we are talking about perhaps 30 000 per year, that is, well below the Migration Board's forecast. Now it is very uncertain whether it is even possible to make any such predictions. I have said, on the basis of the Migration Agency's forecast, that if there were to be 100 000 to Sweden during the year, we would be able to handle the housing situation very well and equally. But we're still going to have to use evacuation sites. Should there be even more, the accommodation sites will end this summer. We do not want to come back to that situation. That is why I have said that if we now see that it is suddenly turning up again, we must be prepared to take further action. However, there is no indication of that today, but everything is now indicating that the measures we took last autumn and the measures we continue to take are in fact holding. My question to Johan Forssell is: What is the bourgeois alternative to this? You question how we Social Democrats and the Green Party relate to each other. We are in favour of a common policy. But what does the Alliance's refugee policy look like right now? I would like an answer to that question.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-129	Mr President, I would like to Let me make one thing very clear to the Minister for Migration. We're behind the ID checks. After all, the Minister for Migration himself has a long experience in this House and certainly knows the principle of voting on his own proposal. The Moderates presented their own proposal for ID controls, which also had the advantage that they would not provide a gap of two weeks in the middle of the summer. We voted in favour of that proposal. This is very clear in Parliament's minutes. I think that in this area too, the Minister for Migration should be a little cautious and humble when it comes to who has done what and not before. I am certainly critical of parts of the migration policy presented by the four party leaders of the Alliance for the 2014 elections, and I do not think anyone who has followed this debate has missed that. I have assumed my responsibilities as a migration policy spokesperson and changed the attitude of the Moderates. It's not something I run away with or ashamed of. I'm proud of it. We have adapted the policy to the completely new situation that is. We started with this as early as January last year and presented a long series of proposals on temporary residence permits and subsistence requirements for family migration, and, a little later, re-established medical age assessments, the principle of safe countries, etcetera. Does Morgan Johansson remember what happened when we introduced that policy? Well, as a letter in the mail, ministers, Social Democratic MPs and environmentalists argued against us. It was said that we were fishing in cloudy waters, that we were doing the wrong analysis, that we didn't know what our proposals were and so on. This was not long ago; it was as late as last autumn. Morgan Johansson was asked in Agenda August 30, 2015: Do the Social Democrats want to introduce some kind of rules that would make Sweden less attractive for refugees to come here, in order to ease the pressure until reception works better? Morgan Johansson replied: It is an illusion to think that one can relieve the pressure by trying to push the responsibility between one another. Different countries try to shoot the hot potato between each other. Millions of people are on the run and trying to ensure that other countries take responsibility and try to scare them away from our countries is the wrong way to go. There are more examples of this. On Friday 8 May, Morgan Johansson criticised Moderates' attitude to temporary residence permits. I think it's pretty serious, said the Minister for Migration. Furthermore, he said: This is the case with some politicians and parties. As soon as it blows a little bit, they fall away. It was only a few months ago, but now Morgan Johansson is here trying to make it sound like the Alliance's migration policy was not adequate and that the Social Democrats had somehow protested against it. But it was actually very quiet until last autumn. I think the Minister of Migration needs to work on his history. I hope that the search pressure to Sweden will be reduced so that we can get our reception order and focus our efforts on providing good support and assistance to the quarter of a million people who have applied for asylum in the last two years. However, we run the risk of facing a problematic situation this summer when, following the government's proposal, the ID checks go down for two weeks. That's the construction.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-142	Mr President, I would like to Johan Forssell says that the Moderates are behind the ID controls. Can't he tell his moderate colleagues in Parliament? In a debate article from 1 February, Tobias Billström, Boriana Åberg, Hans Wallmark and Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler writes that the ID controls are devastating for cooperation in the Öresund region. It may have been that the reason you were unable to vote in favour of the ID checks just before Christmas was that you had a split in your own group and did not manage to get together for a common position. Perhaps the debate article was an expression of that very thing. Johan Forssell says that it is he who signs the company for the Moderates and that the Moderates are now for the ID controls. Fine, we've come so far. But the debate article shows that perhaps there was another background to you not being able to make decisions and not even being able to stick to the go-ahead you gave us before we tabled the bill. This is history. The important thing is that we now have control of the situation and that the measures we have taken have given the effect that we have brought down the number that comes to Sweden. We need that. We have created the breathing space that the government spoke of in November. Johan Forssell uses statements from me from May and August when I object to various proposals. But then the situation was different. We had much lower inflow to Sweden. The big upturn came in October of November when it began to climb up to 5,000 - 10,000. Then a responsible government must react, rule and do something about it, and that is exactly what we did. It's not easy for anyone to do it, but we did. I have two questions for Johan Forssell. One is: Why do moderate MPs criticise the ID controls while you are apparently in favour of them? That is one question I want answers to. The second question is: what does the Alliance's refugee policy really look like? If the accident were to occur and we were to have a bourgeois government, we have on one side the Center Party which retains its ultra-liberal position with open borders. Once the refugees have arrived, however, they will have to fend for themselves. Then the level of ambition in the reception is low. They must compete with each other and try to find housing and work best they can. They'll be working for 10 kroner an hour and living in a basement. That is the consequence of the Center's policy. On the other side we have the Moderates, who want to close the borders completely in a way that is probably in conflict with EU law. Since you do not have a unanimous position on one of the most important issues right now, you are not government capable. You would not be able to take over the government power in Sweden, because you would not be able to conduct a common refugee policy. The Liberals and Christian Democrats are somewhere in between. Sometimes I wonder if the only thing you agree on is that you will achieve integration by further lowering the wages of low-income workers with government-decided poor wages, which is one of your proposals. What does the Alliance's refugee policy really look like, Johan Forssell? And what about Moderate support for the ID controls?
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-157	Mr President, I would like to I've explained the Moderate view of the ID controls. But yes, there were different opinions about them in my party. If I am not mistaken, there were also different views within the Social Democracy and the Government about the ID controls. There seem to be many different views on migration policy in general within the government. The Government basically gives wise answers as to whether there would be 100,000 people next year. The only problem is that other government ministers have a completely different view. If it is difficult to be reminded of statements from last autumn, we can test with a statement from this weekend when Gustav Fridolin was interviewed in Ekot's Saturday interview. He describes the government's migration policy as counterproductive and that it can have terrible consequences for individuals. This is what Morgan Johansson's government colleague says. Gustav Fridolin also said that there will be a control post after two years and that he hopes that it will be possible to change the law early and withdraw parts of the policy that the government has presented. How does Morgan Johansson view it? Does Morgan Johansson share the view that it is not certain that the law will apply for three years, but that parts can be withdrawn earlier than that? To the heart of the matter, Mr President. Morgan Johansson gives a different message from what the Green Party spokesperson does. Gustav Fridolin said in Current news that the entire Migration Agency's forecast is within the range previously assessed by the Government and others is possible for Sweden to cope with long-term. This is a completely different message from what the Swedish Minister for Migration is giving here today. In view of what has been, I wonder: Whose message is it?
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-164	Mr President, I would like to It is enough to look at the Finnish Immigration Service's forecast, which among other things prognoses the residents. Should there be 100 000– we are not so much pointing to now, because we will probably have significantly lower numbers– it is barely that we can cope with the housing situation. Should there be even more, the accommodation sites will end this summer. This is clear from the forecasts. If we see that the figures are rising sharply again, we will, of course, act exactly as we did last autumn to take control of the situation. Mr President, I would like to I did not get any answers at all as to what a bourgeois refugee policy looks like. It seems to be completely written in the stars. Again: As long as you do not have a common bourgeois alliance policy on the refugee issue, you are not government-worthy, Johan Forssell. Then you can't take over government power. It's that simple. I guess we'll see if you're up for it in a couple of years, but right now you're on completely different planets. This discussion will continue. We can go on and on about who said what, on what occasions and so on, but the important thing is to be able to say that things are going in the right direction right now in the sense that we have taken control of the situation. It's not easy. It's hard decisions. Johan Forssell is right that there have also been different views among Social Democrats, but the difference is that we have managed to get together to a position. Every Social Democrat in here voted in favour of the ID controls. Not a single Moderate voted in favour, but abstained. This is the difference – we managed to get together. You haven't been able to do that. The point and what I'm trying to say is that we are in control of the situation right now.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-170	Mr President, I would like to Rolf Åbjörnsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen the role of government and parliament as legislator. Rolf Åbjörnsson has asked the question in the light of the fact that he describes a development in which he believes that the Supreme Court has recently begun to resolve legal issues that should have been dealt with by the legislator. The form of government is based on the principle of popular sovereignty, i.e. all public power in Sweden is based on the people. Parliament is the people's main representative and makes the laws. The government rules the kingdom, and the courts are responsible for the administration of justice. Just as elected legislators give legitimacy to legislation, a strong and independent judiciary is fundamental to the rule of law. No authority, nor the Riksdag, may decide how a court should judge in the individual case or how a court should otherwise apply a rule of law in a particular case. Our society is changing rapidly. Rules interact with each other in increasingly complex systems. Conflict situations may arise between different legal systems, for example between European law and national law. In practice, courts are often the first to have to make difficult and complex choices on new and complex issues, since the Court always has to decide the questions it faces in the individual case. Decisions of the Supreme Courts shall guide the application of the law. It is natural and inevitable that their judgment contains elements of standard formation. The principle that all public power emanates from the people is important to uphold. It is the task of the Government and the Riksdag to propose and decide on new legislation when there is a reason for it. The basis for the legitimacy of the courts and for confidence in their judgment is their independence. But their role is determined and limited by what the legislator has decided. If the government and parliament are not satisfied with the legal developments, the legislation must be changed. This has also happened on a number of occasions.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-174	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Pethrus has asked me what I am going to do to put an end to threats and violence in our asylum accommodations as soon as possible, whether I am prepared to develop an emergency action plan with measures, the consequences of the practice of threats and violence as asylum seekers and whether I can see benefits from different profile housing, for example for Christian asylum seekers. In 2015, almost 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden, the majority of which came during the last four months of the year. In order to be able to offer accommodation to all those who needed this, the Migration Agency has been forced to densify the accommodation while the processing times have become longer and longer. In recent months, the government has taken a number of difficult but necessary decisions on measures aimed at reducing the number of people seeking Sweden. The number of asylum seekers is now at a significantly lower level than in October and November 2015. This makes it easier for the Migration Agency to take measures to reduce the concerns that arise in the housing sector, partly due to long processing times and uneven distribution. It is totally unacceptable that people seeking asylum in Sweden should be subjected to threats, harassment and violence due to ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation – or for any other reason. It is obvious that all asylum seekers should be able to feel safe during their stay in the accommodation. The main responsibility for the safety of accommodation for asylum seekers lies with the Finnish Immigration Service, which cooperates closely with the Police Authority on these issues. As a measure to increase the security of the residents, the Police Authority has trained security officers at a faster pace and has enabled a number of security companies to train security officers themselves. The total number of guards and security guards has more than doubled in asylum accommodation. If there are criminal acts on accommodation for asylum seekers, it must be reported and investigated by the police. All asylum seekers offered a place at asylum accommodations are informed of the housing rules applicable. The information shows that everyone should be able to feel safe in their living environment and that it is therefore important that everyone in the accommodation respects each other, regardless of religion, culture or sexual orientation. It is self-evident that those who run for refuge in our country also comply with Sweden's laws when they come here. In order to meet the increased need for security in housing, the Migration Agency develops methods and working methods such as dialogue teams where staff are trained to deal with concerns that arise in the residents. The Finnish Immigration Service has the opportunity to move particularly vulnerable groups, including vulnerable Christians, to other asylum accommodations when a risk assessment has been carried out in consultation with the police. The Finnish Immigration Service then takes into account local circumstances and the possibility for the individual to network there. The Finnish Immigration Service cooperates with the Police Authority locally when assessing whether persons need to be moved from an asylum accommodation in order to avoid incidents. The main principle is that the person who caused an incident on a resident is moved. However, an individual assessment is made on a case-by-case basis. This assessment places particular emphasis on what is the best solution for the victim and that he or she should not have to move. The Finnish Immigration Service and the Police Authority have recently started deeper cooperation at national level on security issues related to asylum accommodation. It is important that asylum seekers are given the opportunity to have meaningful employment during their waiting period. The government proposed in the extraordinary amending budget, which was submitted to the Riksdag in November 2015, that SEK 200 million be allocated to civil society organisations, study associations and the sports movement. The money will be used to enable the organisations to make use of voluntary engagement and create perseverance in their work. Between August and December 2015, for example, the study associations arranged activities in 239 municipalities for 73 000 participants to strengthen knowledge in Swedish and society and to promote participation in the community of asylum seekers and persons who have been granted a residence permit and still live in asylum homes. The government is well aware of the situation in the country's asylum accommodation and is closely monitoring developments through close dialogue with the relevant authorities and municipalities.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-184	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I had four different questions and do not really think that I have received answers to all of them, but I will come back to that. However, I think it is positive that this time the Minister has dared to mention that Christians in asylum homes are a vulnerable group. I and the Minister have previously debated the situation of Christians in asylum homes, but then the Minister did not want to mention the particular group in his replies. The interpellation that I have received today is more generally about my concern about the situation in asylum homes, because there has been a lot of threats and violence. I follow the question and see media clippings almost daily, and I still receive many emails about how people are vulnerable. It is not just about Christians but about between different groups and ethnicities and about women who feel vulnerable. I wrote the interpellation after the recent murder of an asylum seeker by another asylum seeker in Lindesberg. Although I have raised the issue countless times, I do not think that there is an action plan for this on the part of the government or the Migration Agency. These are emergency interventions, but far too little prevention. Now my question to the Minister is: can the Minister promise that there will be no more murders in asylum homes? That is totally unacceptable. A staff member has been murdered, and now an asylum seeker has been murdered. It is not possible to just say that so many people are now coming that this is something we have to count on. We in Sweden must be able to offer those who have fled from war and persecution protection here. Many have courted the Minister about this, and I wonder a little more specifically: is there really no action plan for this? The Minister says in his interpellation response that the Police Authority and the Migration Agency will collaborate and arrange dialogue time and inform the residents about what applies. That's good. But after the police report and after the staff have gone home, a number of terrified asylum seekers are still sitting and wondering how they are going to make it through the night without anything happening to them. That is totally unacceptable. The Minister says that the Migration Agency is working to expand and secure places in asylum homes and that it is the person who has exposed someone to threats and violence to be moved. That's well-lawed. However, in an interpellation debate on 11 February, I called for a specific action plan to enable us to say that Christians can feel the safety and security of our asylum accommodations. In a Question Time on 25 February, Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke, as I write in my interpellation, said that they were working on such an action plan at the department. Then I wonder whether Minister Bah Kuhnke lacks coverage for what she said or whether there is an action plan under way. I do not think I have received an answer to that question.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-195	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the security of asylum seekers, it is quite easy to formulate the action plan that we are now working on on concrete points. Firstly, it is important to ensure that there is increased surveillance. We've doubled the number of security guards and security guards. It is not only that the police themselves are active but also that they train people at security companies to assist with the security work on the accommodations. Secondly, there must be clear and clear rules from the beginning, when you come to the accommodations, so that you get information from the beginning about what applies and what can happen if you do not adhere to the rules of procedure that apply. Thirdly, there is the principle that if you do not adhere to the rules of procedure, you simply have to move. If you commit violence or any other kind of crime, it should be reported to the police and investigated, and then the judicial apparatus should start just like in all other cases. We need to be very clear on this point. There is not some kind of free letter for people just because they happen to live in an asylum home, but it is Swedish laws and rules that also apply there. As I said, the main rule is that anyone who fights and harasses others is the one who is going to move. Then you can end up in other situations. Like Mrs Pethrus said, you may find yourself in the position that someone who has been harassed would like to move, and then you have to help out with that too. But the main alternative is that it is the one who harasses who is going to move. Fourthly, it is a question of sparing out. We need to acquire 20 000 – 25 000 new accommodations before the summer, in order to replace those that disappear – for example, they may be campsites – but also to try to increase the area, so that people do not have to live as crowded as they do today. It is incredibly important, because overcrowding in itself leads to increased friction. Fifthly, we have the instruction law, which now makes it possible to oblige municipalities to accept refugees. This means that more than 10 000 people who today have been in asylum accommodation but have not had a place in the municipality can start to be taken out now. It is clear that one can formulate it in a specific document and call it an action plan. But these are the concrete measures that we are now working on. Can I then promise that there will never again be violence in an asylum accommodation? No, I can't. I do not believe that any Minister of Justice can ever promise that violence will not arise regardless of the context. But I can promise that we will do everything we can to prevent this from happening and, if so, to go in with concrete efforts to combat the kind of harassment or violence that is at stake.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-204	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. If the police are to investigate a threat and a person in an asylum accommodation goes to the police, perhaps with someone from some organization or church, what happens in the meantime to the asylum seeker and the one who has been harassed? Anyone who harasses will be transferred. I would like to ask: how many such transfers have taken place? As the Minister has indicated, a large asylum seeker arrived in the autumn for a short time. It has created problems in the reception system and also in the housing situation. There is sometimes chaos in our asylum accommodations. Everyone who comes here must be able to feel safe. If we don't have security, there's something we're doing wrong. The violations and harassment that you have experienced in your home country for faith, because you are a woman or for something else, you must feel protected from here in Sweden. The worst vulnerable are converts who have left Islam. They have a very difficult situation. Some Christian congregations and organizations are now considering what they can do to help their sisters. Maybe they'll help them with the housing situation on their own. Some start saying: We need to start special asylum homes with a Christian profile in order to have a Bible out there or hang a cross on the wall, which many feel they do not dare to do in our asylum homes. Archbishop Antje Antje wrote in the DN that one can imagine Christian asylum homes but that this would be a defeat for our society. I'm willing to agree with her. I think that the Minister should be able to press for it not to happen, that we should not have to have that development. The Minister spoke yesterday in an article in Svenska Dagbladet. I saw the headline, jumped to and thought: Now something is going on in a play. The title was: a better protection for persecuted people is investigated. It said that persecuted and harassed persons should be better protected and that anklets and restraining orders should be used. Of course, it was about vulnerable women when I read further down in the article. We're supposed to protect women from violent people, mostly men. But should we not take the violence against asylum seekers so seriously? Is it not time we made a more clear action plan, just as we do for women who are victims of violence? I think the Minister can do more. I think we share the assessment that this is not acceptable. But I think we need to do more. Is the Minister still not prepared to review this? Should we find special accommodations? Should we have special placements? Or does the Minister think that the measures the Minister is talking about are enough? They have not solved the situation so far. What's going to change? There was a recent murder, Minister!
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-211	Mr President, I would like to I also have, of course, the basic position that Sweden should be a country where religions can meet and where one can live side by side in a peaceful way – that is a matter of course. I would also like to say that it would be a defeat if we were to start making divisions ethnically or religiously. It is extremely important that from the very beginning, from the first day you come to Sweden, we mark this: This is a country where we live together, no matter what faith or ethnicity you have or what background you come from. It is not only the possible religious conflicts we are talking about here, but also conflicts from home countries, where people come from different countries that can be at war with each other. These are experiences that we have had for a long time, during the whole period that Sweden has been a large immigrant country. Sweden should be a country where you meet and where you can live side by side. It must be clearly marked already on the first day one comes to Sweden. And where do you come to Sweden on the first day? Yes, you often come to an asylum accommodation. I have presented the concrete measures that we are taking. It is a question of increased surveillance and clear rules from the outset. Anyone who fights should move, and there should also be an opportunity for the person who is exposed to move if this person wants it. I got the question from Désirée Pethrus: What happens after someone has filed a police report? Then, of course in consultation with the person concerned, one should consider whether this person can remain in this particular asylum accommodation or whether this person should move. It may also be considered whether the accused should move. You have to ask that question when it has gone so far that there has been a police report, i.e. whether they should still be on the same accommodation or separated. For it is not reasonable for people to continue experiencing a daily threat. I think that we need to be very clear about this. The fact that you are sparing out, i.e. acquiring more accommodation, ensures that the surfaces are larger and makes sure that the overcrowding is reduced, I think, also helps to reduce friction. I believe that the instruction law will further prevent the problems that exist. There is no reason to shy away from this. It is clear that when many people come together on rather small surfaces, in addition, in a situation when these people do not really know what will happen to them in the future, it can lead to frustration and at worst violence. But it can never be tolerated on the part of society or the authorities. I do not know whether Mrs Pethrus is calling for a specific action plan. However, what I have proposed here and the measures that we are taking are, in any case, a step along the way. Will we solve the whole issue? I think there is always a risk that these things happen almost no matter how well you work. But we will do everything we can to prevent it as well as possible.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-220	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for this. I am sure we want the same thing, but I am afraid that what the Minister is talking about is not enough. But if an organisation or a church goes with an asylum seeker to the police and reports that this person is threatened in the accommodation, can the minister guarantee that this person will be allowed to move to another accommodation if this person requires it and if it is absolutely necessary? Can the police say that this person needs to be transferred? I would like an answer to that. Like the Minister, I think, of course, that we should make it clear that it is freedom of religion in Sweden and that we should work for it. We're not going to separate people. All people have the same right to practice their religion, express political opinions and so on. I am very afraid that if we do not put our foot down now, this will be planted in society, and we will see a very serious development with contradictions between groups. We have to stop this early. Today the newspaper writes the Day: Reverse Afghans would be forced to mosque. It was converts who would be forced into a mosque by other people. I have seen several such articles. I certainly do not want to incite other religions. For me, it's perfectly all right with people who profess to be Islam. We even have Muslims in our party. But if we do nothing, we will see developments in Sweden that we do not want to see. That is why I am now pressing for the government to make early efforts to prevent negative developments in our society. I hope that the Minister and I share this view and that together we can work to ensure that no one feels threatened.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-227	Mr President, I would like to I don't see any contradiction here. I think we have about the same starting points and about the same idea of what should be done in concrete terms. I have not heard any objections from Mrs Pethrus regarding any of the measures we propose and are working on. Désirée Pethrus says that perhaps it should go faster and should be even more. I can agree with that. Sometimes you feel that you should have done something even faster or even earlier. But basically, I think the strategy we have is right. If the police make the assessment that the threat is so strong against a person who has filed a police report, I see it as a matter of course that this person should not remain in that accommodation. Or the person you have reported for harassment should not remain in the accommodation. In fact, that is exactly what I am saying in my interpellation response, in other words that a risk assessment and an assessment of whether the person should be removed from an asylum accommodation should be carried out. I see it as a matter of course that the police and the Migration Agency, together with those affected by this, make such an assessment in the individual case. But it is actually a question of trying to prevent this from happening again and of maintaining the security of the residents. I think it goes without saying that in such a case these people are simply separated in some way. Asylum homes need to be very clear from the start that if you do not follow the rules there you cannot stay and will be allowed to move to another place.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-232	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me if I share the Swedish Transport Agency's assessment that 70 extra traffic police are sufficient to cover the increased need for flying vehicle inspections if the inspection interval changes. Furthermore, he has asked whether I believe that under the current circumstances the police are able to deploy 70 extra police officers to carry out the increased number of flying inspections proposed by the investigation. Finally, Sten Bergheden has asked whether I believe that the Police Authority should receive increased financial funding to compensate for the costs of a larger number of flying inspections if the Transport Agency's proposal becomes a reality. In 2014, the EU adopted the so-called inspection package, which consists of three directives regulating periodic testing of vehicles and technical roadside inspections. The Swedish Transport Agency has proposed in a document to the Government how Sweden could transpose the directives. The report has been consulted by interested parties, both public and private, and stakeholder organisations. The proposals are now being prepared in the Government Office. The Swedish Transport Agency's proposal shows that changes in inspection intervals relate to light vehicles, especially passenger cars. This is not directly related to the increased number of flying inspections. Instead, we are talking about heavy commercial vehicles, that is to say lorries and buses. The Directives shall be transposed in all Member States by May 2017 and shall apply from May 2018. It is the responsibility of the Political Authority to assess how the overall resource is to be used and that the supply of skills is well balanced in relation to the needs of the operation. The possibility of effective activities has in the past been limited by the fact that the powers, responsibilities and priorities were subject to decisions of each police authority. The conversion of the police into a coherent authority enables both an efficient allocation of resources across the country and a uniform application of the legislation. In the light of recent developments around the world, the Swedish Police Authority came in on 25 January with a basis for the government. It shows that up to 2020 the Agency may need to increase the number of police officers by between 1 500 and 2 500 and the number of civilian employees by between 1 000 and 1 600. In the budget base submitted by the Police Authority before 1 March, the Agency has specified its resource needs. Thereafter, the government will normally prepare this within the framework of work on next year's draft budget. I should like to take this opportunity to apologise to the interpeller for delaying this reply.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-237	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Although the answer has been delayed, it is good that I have the opportunity to raise this issue before you take a decision. It is already today, with the traffic police staff that we have, that there is a great deal of concern on our roads. It is for this reason that I would like to know the views of the Minister and the Government on this. Is it possible to relocate additional activities currently carried out at inspection stations to increase the number of actual checks on vehicles and try to stop illegal vehicles on the road instead of stopping them in an inspection hall? Is that the right way to go? Already today, many vehicles are being driven around our roads and have both a driving ban and serious faults. They are uninsured, and they are the wrong tires, drunk driving and bad brakes. We see daily reports in the newspaper that there have been accidents because road safety cannot be maintained and, in many cases, also because there is a lack of controls on our roads. Now, if the police are given a new assignment to take care of even more cars out there and get a number of crowns and a number of police for this, how much risk is it that the police will still use the resources elsewhere in their business? In that case, we have moved one control activity out to another control activity, which is not actually carried out. I know that the police obviously have the opportunity to dispose of both the economy and police resources in a way that should be overall good, but the concern is whether we move out a business or an increased pressure on something and the compliance requirement will not be met as we might wish. So the question is whether the Minister sees a risk that the police, even if they get the resources and more police to do this, will actually use the resources elsewhere if necessary. I also have another question. I know that both the Minister and others from the Socialist side discussed earlier giving the traffic police a clearer mandate, like the German BAG. It is therefore a traffic police authority that Germany has. Is it an interesting solution to the question of how we can secure traffic police on our roads with both resources, finances, and own budgetary responsibility – simply a mission of our own? Mr President, I would like to We know that the number of checks on alcohol and other substances on our roads has also decreased over time. We also know that we have received less fines because we have fewer controls, which also affects the overall budget of the public purse. I know that Dagens Nyheter recently conducted an investigation in which it was found that the level of fines is falling. This means that we will have less resources at the same time as there are more controls out on our way. I would like a comment from the Minister on how he views this development and whether we should try to break it in any way.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-244	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the last one. I do not see any direct problem with the reduction of fines if it does not also lead to a different course of action on our roads. Ultimately, it is – whether it is speeding, intoxication or whatever you want to control – the behaviour we want to change. It is not a question of us wanting the maximum amount of money to be paid to the Treasury. There, for example, Sweden has chosen a completely different road from England when it comes to automatic traffic cameras. England chooses to maximize the fines but has had a significantly smaller impact on speed, while we have chosen to have the maximum impact on speed but not get that much money. I think the Swedish line is a better choice. Then Sten Bergheden asks if I see a risk, and no, I don't actually see that risk. Should we provide resources to the police, I am convinced that the police will do this. How do I see a development like the German; would it be a reasonable development even in Sweden? That's where I'm more doubtful. I'm ready to look at it. I'm ready to look at road inspectors. However, Germany is actually a federation of states, which explains their choice of organisational model. But I do not want to completely exclude any form of road organisation either. The question actually relates to the frequency of inspections. I think it is a wise way to go to have a narrower inspection interval, from one to two years. The reason for this is not that I think you can allow the police to do what is done in the inspection hall without the vehicles having become so much better. That, of course, is the basis of the European directive. Sten Bergheden mentions driving bans and intoxication, but these are issues that are not detected in any inspection hall. We don't do breath tests in the inspection hall. The driving ban is possibly an effect of you not having inspected the car, but it is nothing that is detected in the inspection hall. Rather, it is about doing other things. In the field of sobriety, the previous government already began to try alco-boms in our ports. I think that was a wise development, and I think we should move on and put alcoboms in more ports. Hopefully, we will have the cooperation of authorities in this area, so that we can continue the experiments with alco-boms that exist. When it comes to discovering driving bans, lack of insurance and lack of tax, 100 police cars are now equipped with automatic plate sensing which, therefore, without the need for an active action by a policeman, can warn that the tax or insurance is not paid – or if the owner does not have a driver's license, etc. I also believe that this is a technological development that makes us get a lot more out of the resources we have. I therefore believe in further technological developments, and I believe in having good traffic resources. However, the main competence in the field of traffic must be focused on heavy-duty vehicles and not on passenger cars and light-duty vehicles, where we have seen a very good technological development. The cars last longer, and there are fewer and fewer comments on them in the inspection. Instead, we should concentrate on law and order and heavy vehicles on our roads. There are significant errors there, which are likely to cause major deficiencies in road safety.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-252	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good answer so far, Minister. However, I may not share the view that there is no risk of not giving the traffic police or the police a clearer mandate on this issue. From experience we know that a lot of traffic police and other things are used for many other activities. In certain situations, this is something that obviously needs to be done, but it is clear that it is serious if it is always the case that road safety and traffic police take the fall when some resources need to be redistributed – especially if at the same time we add more tasks and on the part of society actually expect more control with the help of these extra police and resources, and then it must not be delivered by the police because one prioritises away. I would therefore like to see a clearer mandate given to both the traffic police and the police to resolve these issues, regardless of the route they take. The trend is a little alarming now, given that we can see accidents caused by drink driving on a daily basis, while we know that the number of onytra drivers is increasing out there while controls are decreasing. If this is allowed to continue, it means that there is a great risk that even more people will take the chance, given the minimal risk of being caught in the offences. Somewhere, then, this must be broken in order not to cause more people to die on the roads because of inadequate control that makes people willing to take greater risks given the small risk of actually being caught. Then there is the fact that, on our roads today, there is a great deal of other crime going around. These are theft transports where goods and other goods are brought into and out of the country. This means that if we do not have sufficient control in this area – both when it comes to being able to go through vehicles and when it comes to the legality of brakes and other things around, as well as the knowledge around it – there is a risk that this will become an area where you think it is completely safe to drive on the Swedish roads, because it is minimal risk to meet a traffic police officer or be caught. That part I think it's important to break. I think it is good that the Minister is addressing the alcoboms and is actually a little clearer than the government has been so far on these issues. I fully share that view. There have been attempts on alcoboms, and it is incredibly important to get them up in the ports. Even if they are not always in operation, there is still a great risk for people who take the car and are onyktra when they get ashore. Only the restrictive selection will surely mean that more people will refrain from taking that risk. The alcoboms have a good prevention objective if they are set up. It is still a relatively small amount of money to save lives and prevent people from getting on the road. I'd like to see a little more action here, the Minister knows we've been supporting and working with. At least I think the minister was working on that question before the elections, and it's good if he works with it even after the elections. Mr President, I would like to I would like to make one more point. The number of cars is increasing on our roads. Both foreign and domestic cars are increasing, which increases the pressure on the roads even more. I would therefore like the Minister to develop the answer to a clearer responsibility for the traffic police that is actually on our roads.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-260	Mr President, I would like to I just need to clear the numbers a little bit. Although traffic police work decreased during the moderate-led government, and despite the fact that the number of vehicles rose during the moderate-led government, traffic deaths and accidents decreased significantly. It is not that we see a sharp increase in drink-driving, traffic accidents or road deaths, quite the contrary. Both under the moderate-led government and under the Social Democratic-led government, the number of road accidents and road deaths is falling. And the number continues to decline, even though you might think it was the opposite, that you started by picking the lowest hanging fruits and that it would then be more difficult and more difficult to reduce the number of killed and injured in traffic. But, fortunately, we have the opposite trend. We must not pretend that we have a different development from what we have. On the second issue, of course, we should have police officers working specifically on traffic. There should be a high level of competence among these traffic police. The training and further training should be good. Of course, quite other police officers should sometimes be involved in supporting traffic police when there are major raids or extensive controls. It is equally obvious that if we have an extreme situation in the country, if we have the first border control since 1994 that binds large police forces and if we have the greatest terrorist threat in Sweden ever that binds large resources, then this will also affect traffic police operations. We don't have thousands of cops on the shelf that we can just take down from there and put in the border guard. We do not have thousands of police officers on the shelf that we can only place on the streets and squares when we have the greatest threat of terror ever. We have exactly the number of police officers that the moderate-led government dimensioned for. If we face more challenges than ever before, we will have to use the combined force of the entire police force. We did, and that's good. And I am pleased with the successful results of these efforts.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-265	Mr President, I would like to If there is any party that welcomes the police's proposal for more police officers, we are moderates. We simply believe that it is good if more police can be found – this is because the population, terrorist threats, crime and other things have increased. Internet crime also means that you need to work on a broader front in the future. It will require more police officers and more specially trained police officers. There is a hint in the answer, and that is the reason for my concern and why I put this interpellation. I understand very well that, in the event of a terrorist threat and other matters, the police must temporarily redispose the resources. But if it is always – as it has done so far – to affect police operations on the roads, then we get no continuity, no knowledge building, no police that can work effectively. Traffic police are constantly being torn apart by various missions. I believe that there is a risk if, in this situation, further assignments are placed on this business. You send money and more cops, but there's still a risk that there won't be a workshop out there. Then road safety is at risk. There are many older vehicles in Sweden that in some cases may be repaired just in time for inspection or immediately after inspection. If the inspection interval is reduced, one must in some way be prepared for that person to drive another year with bad brakes or other dangerous road defects. Nevertheless, I thank the Minister for his answer, and I hope that we will be able to get more alco-boms up faster than that, which are also an important part of this.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-269	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Sten Bergheden for a good interpellation debate. I note that we largely agree on the importance of maintaining competence in the traffic police force and that we have a sufficient number on our roads to ensure that law and order are maintained. This applies to the offences in passenger transport and to the rather large-scale crime in heavy traffic. Together we will probably be able to continue working on this issue. I look forward to debating it more times with Sten Bergheden when we can measure the results of the efforts made.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-271	Mr President, I would like to Kent Ekeroth has asked me which I consider to be the top priority: that civil protection should reflect the composition of the population or that it should acquire the best possible skills to carry out its mission. Furthermore, he has asked me whether I intend to change laws, regulations, regulations or anything else to stop quotas and targeted campaigns for women and immigrants. Finally, he has asked me whether I intend to work towards introducing national uniform requirements adapted to the real working situation of firefighters. Municipal civil protection is of great importance for people's safety and security. The civil protection service must therefore be effective with high quality requirements on its operations. For effective work, it is essential that civil protection has a high level of public confidence. It is the municipality that is responsible for prevention and civil protection within the municipality according to the Accident Protection Act. According to that law, the municipality is also responsible for ensuring that the personnel have the necessary skills. The Government believes that the personnel composition of civil protection should reflect the state of society. A better gender balance and greater diversity in civil protection are fundamental requirements in this respect. It helps to increase the overall competence and quality of civil protection in general. This can range from more effective rescue operations to even better prevention of violence and threats to civil protection in socially vulnerable areas. It is also about civil protection being able to improve preventive and action-oriented work for the needs of both women and men. In this way, public confidence in civil protection can be enhanced. There is no contradiction between the competence of civil protection and the development of gender balance and greater diversity in civil protection activities. The State is responsible through the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness for education in the area of accident protection. The training shall ensure that there is equal and basic competence of municipal civil protection personnel throughout the country. The work in civil protection is physically demanding. In order to be admitted to state education in the field, there are high demands on, among other things, physical ability. However, municipalities decide for themselves which requirements apply to employment within their civil protection services. In addition to requirements for physical ability, it can be about the ability to make the right assessments in an effort, the ability to create trust, cooperation and the ability to communicate. All these capabilities are needed in order to be able to carry out effective preventive and civil protection activities. In conclusion, I believe that a civil protection service that better reflects the population composition of society than it is today contributes to a more efficient and efficient civil protection system. Against this background, I am closely following developments in this area and will, if necessary, take the measures deemed necessary.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-278	Mr President, I would like to A recruitment policy that focuses on our diversity and population composition does not focus on the best person on the ground. It would not have been the case that the Minister for the Interior defends. The fact that civil protection services that would reflect the population composition of society are better than an empty claim, which is also refuted by tests, protocols and evidence from the field. For example, we can look at the responsible authority, MSB's own report, Physical limits. It shows the following: 97% of men passed the lower physical limit, compared with 33% of women. Within the group of full - time firefighters, 100 percent of the men did it, but only 53 percent of the women did. For part-time firefighters, 93 percent of men did it, but 5 percent of women did. In the peer group of civilians, 92% of men were able to do so, but 0% of women. So this is MSB's own report. How does it go with this leading to a more efficient civil protection system? The difference is huge, and of course it affects. As the study itself states, the time required for physically demanding tasks is likely to be longer than for a person who can meet the limit values. It is certainly quite obvious. And the fact that something takes longer when there is a fire is not a positive thing, unless it was already obvious. The objective of bringing in women and people of other ethnic backgrounds is to be achieved in two ways. On the one hand, the requirements are reduced, and on the other hand quotas are used. "It is not good enough that so few women are firefighters," said the Rescue Agency, now MSB, as early as 2008. Parts of Stockholm and Gothenburg and Malmö have abandoned the so-called urban test, which had relatively high demands. The fact that quotas are taking place confirmed well the Minister for the Interior just now, but if that is not enough, I can give you a few examples. MSB writes on its website that they must increase the proportion of women and employees with other ethnicity. The Swedish Civil Protection Service Syd's website says that the goal is for three out of five teams to have as many women as men. In an interview with the documentary "A Civil Protection in Crisis", did Södertörn Fire Defence Association say? in December that they actively engage in bringing in a certain percentage of women – I think it was 20% or 25% – and also minorities. There is no doubt that demand reduction and quotas are in progress to achieve these policy objectives of diversity. What does that lead to? Of course, reduced requirements and quotas for people who are not in position will lead to a deterioration in quality. This means that this policy puts life at risk in pursuit of what is called equality. Internal documents from Södertörn Fire Defence Association confirm this. In 2011, 7 out of 15 employees failed physical tests. 12 out of 15 employees did not pass the swimming tests. 6 out of 12 couldn't survive. Of them, 5 were women. Eight of these are still working today. This also confirms the head of Södertörn Fire Defence Association in the interview. Evaluation documents have mysteriously disappeared, but in 2014 this continued. Then it turned out that 40% did not pass the swimming tests but still worked. On the basis of the preliminary reply from the Minister for Home Affairs, I would also like to point out that the training for which MSB is responsible can be circumvented. In fact, Stockholm has four different associations with four different requirements. In Södertörn Fire Defence Association you can start working after only nine weeks of introductory training, while in the neighbouring association Storstockholm Fire Defence requires the state's two-year SMO training. Aren't all citizens entitled to properly trained firefighters? Why is there so much difference? Why do you allow it? The policy pursued by this government and the previous government does not focus on the best man on the ground, but rather on gender and ethnicity. It's untenable.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-287	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the one in this House that focuses most on gender and ethnicity is Kent Ekeroth. For Kent Ekeroth, it is terrible that civil protection has entered the 21st century and that there may even be women and immigrants, as Kent Ekeroth puts it, who work in civil protection. In addition, he makes quotes with his fingers around the word. He'll be happy to develop what those citing signs mean. It's good that Kent Ekeroth watches TV and does interpellations based on his TV viewing. But wouldn't it be better if Kent Ekeroth looked out in reality and saw the results? Let me ask you a few simple questions back to Kent Ekeroth. You represent southern Sweden in the Riksdag. You have read aloud about how poor emergency services in your own area work due to the fact that you have women and immigrants employed in emergency services. Question one: Have you visited the South Rescue Service during your time as a representative of them here in Parliament? Question two: Have you taken note of the results of the South Rescue Service? If so, can you read to the House what progress has been made there?
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-290	Mr President, I would like to I have been in contact with firefighters in both Stockholm and South. For example, we have a fireman in the South with 39 years of experience, known for his hard exercises. He has witnessed how the fire brigade has been dismantled in the name of gender equality and multiculturalism and has said, among other things, that it has deliberately reduced the quality of firefighters so that the public can now no longer expect to be saved in a dangerous situation or at least get the best help. It's a complete disaster. Peter Bergh, chairman of the Firemen's National Association, has said that in recent years civil protection has focused more and more on diversity and less and less on professional knowledge. The fact that this kind of quota, which makes people in a worse position enter the workplace rather than better suited, is even established. For example, Södertörn Fire Defence Association was considered to be a missing party in 2011 in the case of Simon Wallmark, and the association paid him 100 000 SEK in compensation. Simon Wallmark had been denied a job while a number of women with significantly lower qualifications or no relevant qualifications at all received a job as firefighters. Despite this, Södertörn Fire Defence Association still believes that they did the right thing, as their production manager said at a meeting that was also recorded. Let me give you an example of how this quota can be carried out. After the Wallmark case, Södertörn Fire Defence Association introduced a recruitment template in order to continue to discriminate freely. There, multiculturalism is one of the scoring criteria. This template can result in the following: Kim, 25 years of age, who is a trained firefighter, has five years of experience as a firefighter and has worked as a carpenter, gets seven points in the test. At the same time Jasmine, 19 years old, who has a multicultural background, can Arabic, has read marketing and has worked a month as a nail sku l ptris, nine points and therefore the job. Then one must ask: Is this a reasonable order to have? No, I'm not against women or immigrants in the fire department. But I want recruitment to take place in the same way and with the same quality. That's what it's all about. Then it doesn't matter whether it's 100 percent women or 100 percent men. But the government seems to have a problem with that. There are several hair-traveling examples of how recruitment can be done. A person with ten years of experience in being a firefighter and with good testimony was denied when he sought his way back to the fire department after a waiter as a police officer. Who was hired instead of him? Well, a 23-year-old woman without a driver's license who substituteed as an intermediate school teacher and attended an education in educational leadership. In 2013, at Södertörn Fire Defence Association, a poet was employed, whose main merit was seven collections of poems and a theatre piece entitled It is called emotions. This person went before a person with eleven different trainings in fire rescue, leadership and medical care as well as many years of experience as a firefighter and operation leader. The latter was also a teacher at Rosersberg's rescue school. He didn't fit, but the poet sat. Is this reasonable? Another example is the forced entry of doors. It should take between 10 and 30 seconds to force an ordinary door and one to three minutes to force a security door. When tests were carried out at the South Rescue Service with two female firefighters, it took them 11 minutes. The fire master in Höganäs said that in that case it is very serious and that there is no life to save on the other side. There's a lot of testimony about this. Magnus Sjöholm, district ombudsman at the trade union Brandmännens Riksförbund, has said that the politicians have made the fire brigade a political scene. You bring in people who don't pass the education and force them through. In the long term, third parties are at increased risk. It is absolutely clear, says Magnus Sjöholm. Brandmaster Henrik Persson has said that, in the long run, this poses a danger to the public. If we are to get the problem right, we must dare to talk about it, demands must be made that meet the needs of the profession. ..................................................... Ygeman said in his introduction that there are high demands through MSB. Is Ygeman aware of the only legal requirement? I would like him to set out that requirement so that we can discuss it in my next speech.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-299	Mr President, I would like to I asked Kent Ekeroth two simple questions. The first was if he had visited the South Rescue Service, which he uses as an example. Even if he tried to pretend the opposite was the case, I assume the answer is actually no. He hasn't visited the South Rescue Service. But it could have been good to do it before he put the interpellation. The second question to Kent Ekeroth was: What is the outcome of the South Rescue Service, which he uses as a warning example? I can tell Kent Ekeroth, because he doesn't seem to be able to find out for himself. They're amazing. They are used as examples for the rest of the country. The number of fires has been reduced by 50 percent and outdoor fire by even more. It is actually so, Kent Ekeroth, although it may not have really gone up for you, that the best fire is the one that does not happen. The preventive work that has been done in the South Rescue Service has prevented a huge amount of fires from happening. In fact, the South Rescue Service is now much more effective, achieves much better results and saves many more lives than it does in the ethnically white, women-free, dream that Kent Ekeroth when.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-302	Mr President, I would like to There are incident reports, exercise reports and evaluation reports from firefighters who are employed in, among other things, Södertörn who show that they are unable to complete the mission. They panic when they're up on a roof. You have to send extra personnel in to save the firemen when they've come in. In Rosengård, for example, two firemen got lost in the smokewater so that other firemen had to be sent in to save them. We have firefighters from the south, Stockholm and around that testify to the problems. We have documents from their own evaluations that prove it. We have a director of Södertörn Fire Defense Association who gets the question: Don't people expect to be rescued from a fire when there is a fire? He says: No, they don't. They expect us to teach them something, to have a dialogue with them. It is this level that civil protection is now being eroded by the focus on quotas and ethnic diversity. I have too short a speaking time to mention all the madness, all the quotas and everything that now exists. This was just an ax pick. Unfortunately, my speaking time is limited. An interesting aspect is that what the government is defending and happening around it is actually illegal. Quotation is de facto illegal. Nevertheless, it is allowed to continue with the good memory of the establishment. The only thing that is allowed is positive discrimination, and it is by women and not by ethnic minorities. What is required is the following. It is necessary to prohibit any form of quota, any form of positive discrimination, any objective of ethnic or gender quotas or any targeted recruitment campaign. Then you have to have a state education that will apply to all fire defence associations throughout the country so that we can have an equal fire brigade with high demands not only in the associations that choose it. Every citizen of this country has the right to adequate protection in the event of fires.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-307	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure there'll be a mistake in rescue Sweden. It may well be that one of Kent Ekeroth's confused anecdotes has happened in reality. It may be something that needs to be corrected. I'll buy it, Kent. But you can't escape the fact that the results of your so-called South Rescue Service are amazing. They've done the most important thing. They have saved lives through purposeful work. Should you choose the path that Kent Ekeroth chooses, it would mean a number of lost lives. More buildings would be destroyed in fire, more lives would be lost and more people would be injured and seriously injured by fires. That's the wrong way to go, Kent Ekeroth. We need emergency services equipped for the 21st century. We cannot look back in the rear-view mirror at the Swedish-democrats so cherished and circumscribe the 50s.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-310	Mr President, I would like to Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me what measures I intend to take to make Stockholm suburbs safer. She has also asked me whether I intend to promote the reintroduction of the 20 000 police force case throughout Sweden. According to the National Security Survey, security increases and crime decreases generally in Stockholm and the rest of the country. However, in some vulnerable areas, especially in the suburbs of our major cities, developments are moving in the opposite direction. Insecureness has become commonplace in some of these areas. These developments have been going on for a long time and are serious. For a number of years, the police authority has gathered together through targeted actions in the suburbs of Stockholm, especially in Rinkeby and Tensta. However, the causes of the problems are so complex that they will not be counteracted by police action alone. For the government, it is very important to take measures that can help to improve the situation in these areas. The possibility of living a safe life without crime should not depend on the area in which people live. The problem needs to be addressed from a number of quarters and through joint action by society as a whole. In particular, measures are needed to reduce the social gaps that create the conditions for these problems. Jobs, good housing, a good school and an inclusive society are fundamental to reverse developments. In December, the Head of National Police presented 14 priority areas where police regions will intensify law enforcement, crime prevention and security-building. Local and regional police officers shall be present in the priority areas and shall work together with other staff to create safe areas. The Government has presented a number of concrete measures addressing the problems in vulnerable areas in particular. For example, the government's mission to the Police Authority and eleven other authorities to develop forms of local cooperation against organised crime. In the mission, the government has emphasised the importance of working against organised crime in particularly vulnerable areas. The Government has also commissioned the Police Authority to create the conditions to further counteract the presence of illegal weapons and explosives within the country. The government has also intensified the crime prevention work with a national initiative. In addition, the Crime Prevention Council has been tasked with identifying measures against crime and improving security in socially vulnerable areas. The results are presented in November. In February, the Police Department reported that there were 20 187 police officers, which is 136 more than in 2014. Following the abolition of the target of 20 000 police officers, the number of police officers has increased. The Government has previously expressed the view that the Police Authority best assesses the skills mix required to meet the Authority's mission. On 29 February, the Police Authority submitted a budget statement to the Government. The evidence shows that the Agency estimates that the number of police employees needs to increase by 3,300 during the period up to 2020. The Government intends to closely monitor the development of the Political Authority's ability to fulfil its mission.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-317	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Between 2013 and 2015, 21 people died in shootings in Stockholm, 17 in Gothenburg and 7 in Malmö. Death shootings are dramatically many more in Swedish cities compared to what it looks like in our neighbouring countries. Copenhagen, Oslo and Helsinki together have half as many shootings as we have seen in Stockholm. The statistics speak clearly. But we cannot accept that our capital will be known for violence and killings. The statistics also show how violence and insecurity affect those who are already most vulnerable. One in four shootings in Stockholm County took place in two already very vulnerable districts where only 5 per cent of the county's population lives. Mr President, I would like to The image of the segregated insecurity in our capital city is confirmed by the Police Authority's reports, the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce and Brå. It is primarily foreign-born women who suffer from insecurity. The police authority has identified 53 areas in Sweden that are characterized by difficulties for the police to fulfill their mission, parallel communities and v ldsbeaffirmande religious extremism m. In Stockholm, Husby and Rinkeby – Tensta are identified as two of the most vulnerable areas. The police believe that you need a greater presence, more resources and more police to deal with the problems. For this reason, the Moderates have proposed that we have 1 000 more police officers and that we should reinstate the previous government in at least 20 000 police officers. We need to establish a minimum level of tolerance: the number of police officers must never be smaller than that. I believe that insecurity is the great equality issue of our time. In Stockholm, you should be as safe on Rinkeby Square as on Nytorget, women should not be hunted by self-appointed moral policemen in either Tensta or Nacka and the blue light staff should be able to work undisturbed in both Husby and Enskede. For fear of stigmatisation of the suburbs, politicians have often looked between their fingers when it comes to crime and women's oppression. A new study shows that 63 percent of young people in Stockholm suburbs must not have a relationship with any of another ethnicity due to pressure from home. One in ten women dare not go out into their residential area at night. I don't want the capital I live in to have gender equality inside customs, but honorary oppression outside. It is time for the gender equality debate to shift the focus from the boardrooms to the suburbs. The government of Löfven is currently betraying the women in the suburbs. The Government is not late in lining up examples of investigations being carried out, and it is good that they are done, but the problem is here and now. Women of the suburbs, and for that matter men, are now subject to oppression and violence. Is Anders Ygeman prepared to curb the violence in our suburbs here and now? If so, how does the government want to reduce shootings and increase security? Is the government prepared to say yes to the Alliance's proposal of at least 20,000 police officers? It must be a minimum tolerance. Is Anders Ygeman prepared to say yes to the Moderates' proposal of 1,000 more police officers to ensure that our suburbs are once again safe places to live and work?
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-327	Mr President, I would like to We believe that the police are best placed to determine the staff mix themselves. There may be a need for civil engineers, economists and different types of other staff. It was an unfortunate mistake by the moderate-led government to set a numerical target for a particular category of employment. It is a type of numerical target that has not been chosen for any other activity. Should it be a goal of for example Försäkringskassan how many administrators we have instead of looking at the results? There is no other sector of society that sets targets in this way. It can also be noted that after the abolition of the target, the number of police officers has increased. It also suggests that the Poli Authority has the best competence to resolve this issue. We want to let the police be police officers and control a larger part of the business. I think it is positive, and I think it would be good if the Moderates too adopted this view of the business and the profession. The police are well sent to make that kind of balance. I share Jessica Rosencrantz' criticism of the previous government and perhaps also of previous social democratic governments that too little has been done to reverse developments in the suburbs and against crime there. I think that society has too much left the suburbs in the lurch. But that also applies to social development. We have had a period of eight ten years of growing gaps, rising unemployment and falling school outcomes. When this type of negative development is concentrated in a number of areas, it is no wonder that we also have a crime as a result of that development. This is why efforts must not only involve more policemen in these vulnerable areas and tougher arms that the government has proposed and the police are now doing, but must also be measures to reverse social development. That is why it is so gratifying that unemployment is now falling after a number of years of rising. Employment is rising, and it is rising not only among the ethnic Swedes in the midst of life that Reinfeldt talked about, but it is rising fastest among foreign-born women. We need to do more to reverse school developments. We need to invest more resources in schools in the vulnerable areas in order to create social protection and social development. We also need more cops out in these areas. It is therefore gratifying that the police are now prioritising the 14 most vulnerable areas to ensure that there are district police and local police. It is therefore gratifying that there will be a new police station in Rinkeby with over 200 police employees. It is therefore gratifying that in Gothenburg and Malmö resources have been invested in getting more police officers. It is gratifying that we are moving from solving for eight years one of the murders committed by organised crime in Gothenburg to solving a number of murders and putting the guilty behind bars. 25 people from organised crime are behind bars in West Sweden. Another 25 are in custody pending trial. The investigation into the events at Vårvädertorget will be completed today, I think. It consists of 9,000 pages, and hopefully it will clear the murders. This is very positive, but we also have a real legacy to work with. I hope that we can reverse developments in some of our most vulnerable suburbs during this term of office.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-335	Mr President, I would like to The Government talks about government assignments, collaboration, schools and measures for social development. All of this is important, but it is also measures that take a very long time. I also believe that the Government is humble in this respect. But, as I said, the problem is here today. It is here and now that women and men do not dare to go out in the evenings and women in many of these areas do not dare to be in public places for fear of being harassed. Then the police are an important answer. We have seen from time to time that the police have been used as a budget regulator. That is why it is important to ensure that the government can guarantee that we will never go under these 20 000 police officers. It's good that they're getting more of them right now, but that's not always the case. Mr President, I would like to Violence and shootings are no longer just the victims of criminal gangs. Violent crimes in the public environment are on the increase. There are many examples. Just to take one: In May 2015, a passing seven-year-old boy and a 56-year-old man were hit by shots from a small handgun when criminal gangs made up in the square of Husby. That is unacceptable. In both Tensta center and Rinkeby center there are open drug sales adjacent to the metro and other gathering places. According to reports to the police, persons of Jewish faith avoid Rinkeby and Tensta, and Christian women avoid Rinkeby centru at risk of being harassed. Violence, violations and repression are now part of many people's everyday lives. It limits people's freedom – a freedom that I and the Government and many of us here can take for granted. Then it is not enough, Mr President, to investigate and cooperate, but in fact something is needed here and now. Among other things, the Moderates have demanded 1 000 more police officers to work in these particularly vulnerable areas and that more should be in external service and not hide behind a desk. We have also proposed that more social workers should be available after office hours and also they should be out in the community. We also want to tighten the penalties for a number of crimes, including serious violent crimes. Of course, the problems are complex. Many measures are needed. But the fact that this is something that the school should solve or something that we solve through long-term government missions or police premises that are ready in two years cannot be the only answer. We can't dwindle with the criminal gangs that restrict people's freedom. The result, Mr President, is that the vast majority of law-abiding people are restricted in their freedom when police and politicians withdraw. Women who have fled oppression and extremism in their home countries are now facing exactly the same things in their new residential areas in Sweden. We cannot accept that. And we cannot accept that we will reverse this trend in two, three, four or five years' time. Here the government must act more forcefully. Is Anders Ygeman prepared to say yes to 1,000 new police officers in these areas? What concrete steps is the government taking here and now to make these women and men feel safe when they go out at night? How can the government guarantee that more innocent people will not end up in the line of fire for criminal settlements?
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-345	Mr President, I would like to I think we should be careful not to pretend that history began 15 months ago, when the Social Democratic-led government took office. I think you should be careful not to forget the 8 years we had before, or 10 or 15 years before, if you like. I think it's going to be pretty dangerous if you say, "What's the government doing here and now?" You're talking about school, medical and police. It could take five years. Yes, it can. The question is, Jessica Rosencrantz, why we had eight years of growing gaps, rising unemployment and the OECD's strongest declining school outcomes. When you have had that development, you cannot stand in a speaker's chair and say: The social development thing takes time. What's the government doing here right now? Of course, we do a lot of things here and now. But we must also dare to see the long-term, structural reasons for this development and, in some cases, we have failed. I would like to remind you – perhaps it is to Jessica Rosencrantz's pious – that the development looks positive on the whole. Never have so many people in Sweden felt as safe as now. It's macro development. Microdevelopment is that we have major problems in the most socially vulnerable areas, where the previous government failed most. Then I say, we need to reinforce this with policemen, and we have already done that. From the turn of the year, there have been more police officers in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. I say: new police stations are needed here, as in Rinkeby, and better cooperation with the municipalities is needed here. Then Jessica Rosencrantz asks me if I am prepared to take the Moderate Air Castle to propose 1,000 new police officers here and now? But that doesn't mean any cops here and now. With that proposal, the first police officer would be on the street in three years' time. It is even the case that there would not be a single new police officer during this term of office if the House were to vote in favour of the Moderates' proposal. What do you mean here and now? In addition, you're dedicating 100 million, I think it is, so that the Police Academy will start bringing in a few hundred more police officers. We've done things here and now. Let me tell you something. We've hired a lot more civilian employees. Then Jessica Rosencrantz can say that you want a target to increase the number of police officers. But what do the civilian workers do? Yes, they control the border. They will begin to control the southern border so that we can release police officers for police resources. We might not have been able to do that if we had had a strict provision from the Riksdag on how many should be police officers and how many should be civil servants. Fortunately, we don't. This allows us to hire more civilian workers, who can free police officers so that they can be just out in the streets and squares of our vulnerable suburbs. I'd be happy to discuss how we can get more cops out in business. I am happy to take part in evaluating the police reform that we have decided on jointly to ensure that the resources that were previously spent on IT administration and human resources administration and a large number of managers actually come out of the business and produce results. But you can't pretend that time started on October 4th last year. There were eight years before with a moderate government.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-354	Mr President, I would like to No, the Government, it cannot be said that this development began yesterday. This is, of course, a development that we have seen for a long time. Does that mean that the responsibility for this government is less? No, the problem is still here and now and must be dealt with, regardless of the color of the government. Both sides have a responsibility to focus on it. Many people have come to work over the past eight years with the alliance government. But a new alienation has emerged. And the government has been slow in managing the large migratory flows that have come to Sweden. We cannot therefore look after those people properly because we have a housing market that is not working and a school that is not ready. That's where the government's been held down. Let us not go into that debate. But since a haste introduced ID checks with a few days' notice, without proper consultation rounds and other things, the situation, with the large number of people coming to Sweden, has not been managed properly. Now they end up in the vulnerable areas. There, I mean, the government does not accept its responsibilities. I also believe that the government is to a very large extent hiding behind investigations and collaborative missions. I say again that I think they are also important aspects. But when we cannot admit that we have historically used the police as a budgetary regulator and that we have often fallen with and have not dared to speak out against the serious criminal gangs, we deny history. We must, in a much clearer way, ensure the security of our suburbs. I know, for example, that it is very difficult to get permission for camera surveillance in the subway, even though it would create great security. In a variety of areas, the government, with clear measures and clear signals, can show that it is taking these problems seriously – now and not just tomorrow.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-359	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that I agree with much of what Jessica Rosencrantz says about what we need to do in the suburbs and in some of the criticism Jessica Rosencrantz has against previous governments, regardless of colour. But when Jessica Rosencrantz starts talking about responsibility and responsibility for the refugee situation, I get quite upset. On Wednesday, you Moderates said you were in favour of ID checks. On Thursday, you had changed your mind and opposed. On Wednesday, you said you were in favour of giving the government a mandate to close the Öresund Bridge. On Thursday, you couldn't take it anymore. The truth is that a moderate government had not been able to cope with this situation. Even in opposition, you were not able to take responsibility for the policies needed to reverse developments. Please criticize the government, but do not criticise it for doing what has been required! We've turned things around. We've taken responsibility. We have done what was required. That is why today we have the position we have so that we can move forward and do not have to deal with an emergency refugee situation.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-363	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me how the investigation work of the Swedish Police Authority and the emergency work have been affected by the increased migration and terrorist threat level in the last six months and what measures I have taken to help ensure that this work does not suffer. Furthermore, he has asked me how the proportion of cases cleared has been affected over the last six months and what measures I have taken to help ensure that this work does not suffer. Finally, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me whether the Police Authority has had to prioritise whether and which crimes have been chosen to prioritise down or away. The sharp increase in the number of migrants has had an impact on the entire public sector and to a large extent on the work of the Politiska ombudsman. In order to deal with the situation, it has been necessary for the Authority to re-prioritise its activities. For example, police officers in external service have been called upon to strengthen border police activities in the region of the West and South. The large number of asylum seekers has also increased the need for police presence in asylum homes, the transport of asylum seekers to the Finnish Immigration Service's facilities, and more. The redeployment of staff has reduced the scope for both self-initiated and planned activities. For example, there is a clear decrease in the number of drug offences established in autumn 2015 compared to the same period last year. The number of tickets issued for traffic offences has also decreased in 2015. The response time has in some cases become longer for event-driven tasks, which in turn has resulted in a larger overtime charge. In criminal investigation activities, the need for access to interpreters and the capacity to identify is increasing. On 29 February, the Police Authority submitted a budget statement to the Government. The Agency's assessment is that the number of police employees needs to increase by 3 300 by 2020. This, according to the Authority's assessment, requires an additional funding of SEK 3.9 billion. The Government intends to closely monitor the development of the Political Authority's ability to fulfil its mission.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-367	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. I realise that the Minister for Home Affairs has acquired a relevant picture of the strained situation we have in the police and the judiciary. And it's really serious. A country where for various reasons the police cannot come out and help people when they are victims of crime is very dangerous out there. Trust in each other and trust that society can protect you if it is necessary is essential for society to continue and develop positively. This is not the case in all places in today's Sweden. I took help from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service to get a picture of what it looks like in Sweden's police today and also how the reorganisation, increased migration and the increased level of terror have affected the work around Sweden in recent months. In part, I got the impression that the Government has shown that the work on drugs and traffic control in particular has gone down. It is difficult to obtain accurate statistics because Brå's surveys are only shown half-yearly. But I also got 61 pages of press clippings from all over Sweden in recent months, which showed that the police in many places around our country do not function satisfactorily and cannot face the so-called everyday crime. Not least our ordinary traders and entrepreneurs are getting very frustrated about this. There are places that I will show in my second post, where the police only visited 1 out of 20 break-ins places with entrepreneurs. In addition, we have a number of areas where decay has gone so far that a single police car does not even go into alarm without assistance. In addition, in some municipalities it is almost daily that the police are allowed to go out to various asylum accommodations to calm the situation. All of this, together with the increase in border control, means that a number of important police tasks must be reduced.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-374	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Lars-Arne Staxäng for the questions and for a constructive attitude. I think we need to divide the issue into two parts. One part is what is being done to get back to a normal situation after we have had a huge strain on border controls, a migration challenge that is extremely large and a terrorist threat level that has been elevated and at times higher than ever. This is a temporary situation. The second part is about everyday crime – we talk traders in rural areas and so on. There it is my view that the police have not performed well enough for a long time and may not have had the tools to perform well enough for a number of years either. A more structural approach is needed to change this situation. How do we take out the habitual offenders? Today, many police officers feel that they arrest the same criminal several times, and the person is released into the street again very snab bt. It is felt that there is a form of penalty rebate – in fact it is not in the legislation, but it is applied to limit the investigation and make it more effective. It's hard. Many traders feel that it is almost pointless to keep a shoplifter because the signal from the legal society is not enough. With regard to the structural problems, I am prepared to come back at a later date with a concerted approach. I think we have allowed this to go on for a little too long, even during the time the Social Democrats have been in the lead. We have built up a number of vanecriminals that are almost immune to the efforts of the law enforcement authorities. There we must take a collective structural approach. The current situation, which is extreme due to the reorganisation, migration flows, terrorist threats and so on, we need to work our way through and get out on the other side. I believe that the situation will be long and that we must provide the police with additional resources. The police have come in with a file for the government. We'll have to go through it in peace and quiet. The mere fact that we have received evidence from the police is not enough to determine the need for resources, but we must also critically examine it in order to ensure that the tax money that goes to the police is used in the absolute best way.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-381	Mr President, I would like to I hear that the Government is aware of the frustration that exists in many of the police. I also hear that the Government has thoughts on how to improve the situation. There are structural problems, admittedly, and they have existed for a long time. This comes to the surface when there is a full kalabal, as it was in the autumn. It can be seen when you can't get to everyday crime and people react. This, of course, depends on a number of things together. The reorganisation is one of them. We all hope that this will sit down and that it will be a better organisation overall, but so far the experiences that have come to light have not been the best. A lot of police workers feel bad and even think about looking for another job. That would be devastating. Even now, three or four times the number of police officers who quit. That figure has been relatively low in the past, but if there is one thing we should be careful about, it is the police that are in the organization. We have to keep them. As has been said here, it takes three four years to train new people. In addition, we have a very strained situation with migration, heavy gang arrangements and other things that make it too much. So I thought I'd show you what it looks like in many places. I will begin by recounting what has been said by a chief prosecutor in Örebro, Sarah Hajslund Hansen. She has reacted to the fact that the police have delivered far fewer preliminary investigations this year than last year. She also refers to the statistics of the National Court of Justice. It shows in black and white that there has been a sharp reduction in incoming cases in terms of everyday offences. There is also a statement from the companies in Skövde, who have looked at this. It turned out that the police have arrived in only one case in 20 when there have been burglaries by entrepreneurs and traders. The frustration is great, and unfortunately not only in Skövde. I spoke to entrepreneurs in Uddevalla two three weeks ago. Only a few days ago, I spoke to entrepreneurs in Vänersborg and Trollhättan. I would have been there today if we had not had this interpellation debate. Around Sweden it is a great frustration, because the police cannot cope with the security of everyday crimes. This is ominous. We must do things in the short term and in the long term. It takes three or four years to train new police officers. I know there's a plan there's gonna be 3,000 to 4,000 new cops. It is really needed, and we in our party acknowledge that this will come out as soon as possible. But we also need to make short-term efforts. I noted with pleasure that the Minister for the Interior pointed out a few points that we have to address over the next two years.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-389	Mr President, I would like to I also think that the issue raised by Jessica Rosencrantz in the previous interpellation, camera surveillance, is something we need to discuss. The government has set up an investigation into the forms of it. I think that the assessments that have been made as to whether or not camera surveillance can be used have sometimes been highly unsatisfactory. I believe that the fact that the government has introduced identification requirements for passengers and passenger lists on ferries is an important part of the fact that the police and customs are to keep track of which people are coming to our country in advance. It will be a powerful tool to combat the theft gangs from Lithuania, for example, that have come here. This is something that is important when we talk about structural control. We're talking about the vanecriminella group. There we must do more. And I think we need to take a different approach from what we have had so far. Then Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng takes up the staff turnover within the police. We have a lot of good cops. Basically, I welcome their attractiveness in the labour market and the willingness of other people and companies to hire them. But then it is also necessary that the Police Authority is an attractive employer and that one can meet up in that regard. Nevertheless, I believe that we should take the figures on staff turnover with a pinch of salt. The police have a relatively low turnover compared to most other government employers. It's slightly increased. At the same time, we know that this is how it is: If you do the biggest reorganisation since 1965 and if all managers are allowed to apply for new executive positions, it is natural that each person has their own thinking activities. Do I want to stay? Do I want to try something new in life? It'll be a natural fresh start for a lot of cops. I think you should have respect for the considerations they make. Perhaps after three, four, five years in other activities they will return to the police with new experiences and will be involved in enriching police operations. It's one last little thing you should know when you read the statistics. The security police became their own authority at the end of last year. The police who leave the police to start work with the Security Service are now counted as having changed jobs, while in the previous statistics they were counted as if they were still with the same employer. As there are often fixed-term appointments by the Swedish Security Service, the turnover of staff seems to be much greater than it actually is. That's not the whole explanation, but a small part of it.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-395	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. I believe, like Anders Ygeman, that we need to put in place a number of measures quite quickly. It's a big strain. When it comes to this penalty discount thing, it's not just about the police. We need to look at the whole justice system. The penalty discount is unusually high in Sweden. In many other countries, the penalty is increased if more crimes have been committed. All of a sudden you get a discount here. We're thinking completely differently. I also believe that the so-called petty crimes – shoplifting, theft and so on – must be prosecuted even more. It has been shown in many other countries, not least in America, that it is only when you take care of and prosecute petty crime that you get to the greater crime. We see that we have a number of areas in Sweden – someone expects it to be 55 – 60 areas – where police officers do not go alone. It has gone so far as to release crime. I am thinking above all of those who live in those areas. They do not get the security that we all want. It's about being able to protect yourself and your family. We need to get a unified grip – that is quite right. This has been going on way too long. I am thinking, above all, of the upsurge that took place in the autumn. This is where it comes to surface. I would like to conclude my speech by thanking the Minister for the Interior. I hope that he will be able to come back and present a package in the near future where we can take action together in this area.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-401	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Lars-Arne Staxäng for a constructive and good discussion. I think we are in complete agreement on the problem. We may not really agree on all the measures. However, I believe that we will be able to continue to discuss proposals in a constructive manner in order to achieve positive developments. I look forward to further debates.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-402	Mr President, I would like to Sten Bergheden has asked me whether I intend to follow Parliament's announcement and have the future format of the radio and television fee examined. I believe it is important to find a sustainable financing model that guarantees the independence and impartiality of public services. Public broadcasting is an important building block in a democratic and open society. I will therefore work to ensure that public service funding remains stable and predictable and, at the same time, takes place in a way that is perceived as fair and reasonable. It is gratifying that Parliament's announcement expresses strong support for the basic principles of financing the activities of public service broadcasters. My starting point is to set up an investigation into the radio and television fee well in advance of the next permit period and that it should be designed on the basis of Parliament's wishes for a block-crossing and parliamentary composition.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-405	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for the answer, although I may have felt that it was not really so much a response to the concrete questions I asked. The Parliament gave an announcement last April. We wanted a parliamentary investigation that looked at the radio and television fee. Now it has been a year, but we have not received any signal from the government more than today that it still has the ambition to do so. I think it is good that the ambition remains, given that Parliament has said this. But perhaps a slightly higher level of ambition would have been that the investigation had been set up and given it an assignment. As the Minister says here, it is a matter of being done with this in good time. An investigation will come up with something. The next step is that political Sweden somehow discusses it and goes on with it. It's about getting a ready proposal. Many more parties may be able to agree on how this should be designed. This is also important. Technology development has completely run away in terms of digital television and the whole of it. This means that we can watch television on the phone and tablets and all that it is. How are we going to solve this without people getting into a situation where they do something illegal because they don't pay a TV license fee in that case? The broadcasting permit expires in 2019. My question to the Minister was: Does the Minister intend to follow Parliament's announcement? I think I have had an answer to that. It seems clear that the Minister intends to follow that announcement. I think that's good. However, I wonder: when will we see the parliamentary group set up? It's a simple and straightforward question. When do the minister and the government intend it to be ready? It's supposed to be ready in good time for 2020, right? Perhaps the next government meeting could already ensure that some sort of timetable is drawn up for this. I think an announcement needs to get some kind of reaction after a year has passed.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-411	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sten Bergheden, for continuing Question Time. Public broadcasting is a big deal. It is a delicate task for all responsible politicians in our country to safeguard the independence of public services. The current authorisation expires on 31 December 2019. In good time before the next permit period, which will start in 2020, we will develop a new broadcasting licence, a new agreement between the public service companies and us in politics. Keeping agreements is for me, and I hope it's for many – a matter of honor. If you do not keep a contract, it will be very difficult to know what to relate to. This is something that has become very clear to me during the year and a half that I have been Minister of Culture and Democracy and responsible for media policy and public service in our country. It is about the ongoing questioning and rooting-out of the conditions that apply to public service broadcasters in terms of being able to live up to their mission. Public services in our country have a very high level of trust, highest confidence among all our various institutions. It is based on a credibility and a basic requirement that they can work independently and make publicist decisions. But if these managers who run the public service companies at the same time are constantly being questioned and incited to turn their business around in different ways, how will they be able to conduct their business? My saying this does not, of course, mean that I will not accept Parliament's announcement. I will ensure that this is done in good time. It hasn't even been half the time. The broadcasting permit that the moderate-led government led the work with began to apply in 2014. By the end of 2016, we have reached the mid-term review, which is also another instance, and we also have a review board that constantly follows that our public service companies are doing what they are supposed to do. Nor will I be fooled into standing here and saying some exact dates. Sten Bergheden knows as well as I do that if we are to do this according to the processes and routines that exist in the Riksdag, a request should be made to group leaders and so on, so it is also a thorough process when this will happen. However, this will happen, and Sten Bergheden and everyone else can be absolutely sure that I will both follow Parliament's decisions and, with all my strength, safeguard the independence of public services and ensure that they can work on the basis of the broadcasting licence that is currently in force.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-419	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. The answer is about the same as the written interpellation response, that is, the Minister will ensure that this will happen. On the other hand, the Minister does not wish to make any commitments regarding the time frame, which I find unfortunate given that it is both an investigation period and a position and a work to come up with a proposal for a change that really needs to be completed in good time. Before you get there, you need to have had the broad discussion. I am a little unsure, so I have to ask the question again: will the appointment take place during this term of office? I assume that this will have to happen in the light of the announcement. In that case, it must be done in time that it will also be completed during this term of office. Or do you intend to set up this investigation two months before the election and then release the question when the Alliance takes over after 2018? That's the question. There must somewhere be an ambition from the government to implement these announcements, and above all on those issues where there is a need and such a large and broad support to review this. Investigations about operations in Sweden always create concern – certain. But as long as we spend tax money on and the people of society pay contributions to a certain type of activity, that activity is actually allowed to accept that we are constantly questioning and looking at how we can solve this financial forward. It goes without saying that we use both tax money and the country's people's money as efficiently and well as possible, and it gets all the activities that have some form of government funding. I will come back to the basic questions: will this happen in this parliamentary term if we try to boil it down? Will it be ready within this term of office?
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-424	Mr President, I would like to I am somewhat fascinated that Sten Bergheden, a member of the party that led the Ministry of Culture in the previous government and thus led the work on the existing broadcasting permit, is so keen to question and put at risk what you negotiated at the time. If the Moderates were so keen to somehow change the funding model for the public service or the radio and television fee, why didn't they do it then or push it properly in the broadcasting state that existed? My questioning is actually greater than that: What is it that the Moderates have changed their attitude in? Who are you? What are the principles you question? I have lived in the belief that the Moderates as good liberals are behind the consensus that still exists among the democratic parties in this Parliament and care for public service independence, care that public services can work and take their publicist and editorial decisions far, far from our flaws. But it may be a quiet hope that no longer applies. I'm worried about that. I had hoped that, on the basis of a common view and a safeguarding of public service, we could both carry out the work on the basis of the announcement that exists and then enter into a major and important work for the new broadcasting licence. But it seems that the Moderates have completely changed direction. All the balls are suddenly in the air. A lot went missing with Reinfeldt and Borg.
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-428	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I think it is quite clear that we are also safeguarding an independent public service, but what we are discussing here today is an announcement from the Parliament that wants to set up a parliamentary inquiry to look at what it should look like in the long term. Then it is felt that some sort of decent level must nevertheless be that this announcement should be met by the Minister and by the Government. The simple questions I asked here today were whether this will take place within this term of office and whether it will be completed within this term of office, on which I assume, given that there has nevertheless been a majority for this proposal in Parliament. The government actually sits on a mandate from the Riksdag, which means that what the Riksdag decides on in some way must be delivered from the Government. Then one cannot discuss that there are other values that are so important that one ignores what the Riksdag has decided. Now we have a concrete announcement, and I assume that it will be met. The Minister has made it clear that this will happen. I think that is a good thing, and I assumed that would happen. But I would also like to have a little time perspective on this, given that it can be delivered within a period of time so that we really do have time to have a broad discussion and do not end up in panic decisions and other things that it may mean in the future in the run-up to a renegotiation in 2020. That's why I think it's a bit of a hurry to get started with this piece. No, we did not finish everything during the time we were in government, and there were certainly more issues that we did not complete fully. That does not mean that we stop trying to push these issues in the direction we want and find new solutions to the problems. Thank you, Minister, for the answers so far!
i-ac287b937aa1fc69-434	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sten Bergheden! We have a great responsibility, we here in the Swedish parliament and we who sit in the government, to create the best conditions for public services to continue to operate in the service of democracy and to be an independent public service with high credibility and trust in our population. I'm happy for the announcement. We need to investigate the radio and television fee. Just as Sten Bergheden began with, there has been a major shift in technology, and that should not be called into question. Citizens and taxpayers should feel confident that the TV fee they pay actually goes to what they want and that they feel involved in the entire public service process. It's important. I will ensure that we live up to the announcement. It's a self-evident matter of honor. I respect Parliament's decisions. I will also always safeguard the independence of public services. I think it is important that we have a common understanding of how independence is built up so that public services can continue to operate on the basis of their important work.
