i-0f89b846766ec571-5	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Hans Linde and Amineh Kakabaveh have asked me whether I intend to take the initiative to ensure that Sweden's imprisoned parliamentarians, mayors and other representatives are released together with the country's other political prisoners and to raise the issue of Turkey's starting to respect fundamental human rights. Mr Linde has also asked whether I intend to take the initiative in order for Sweden to work to freeze Turkey's negotiations on EU membership and for the EU to terminate the agreement with Turkey aimed at preventing people fleeing to Europe. Amineh Kakabaverh has also asked me whether I am prepared to take the initiative within the EU to bring the parties to the conflict between the PKK and the Turkish Government back to the negotiating table. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. I share the deep concern of the interpellants about the situation in Turkey. Even before the coup attempt in July, there was a negative development in respect for human rights and the rule of law. The developments in recent months with state of emergency and far-reaching decrees as well as extensive suspensions, dismissals and arrests – not least by political opposition and journalists – are extremely worrying. Free media and lively opposition are prerequisites for a pluralistic democratic society. The situation of freedom of expression in Turkey, in particular the freedom of the media and academics, is particularly worrying and has been so for a long time. The Government intends to continue actively to work with and strengthen the opportunities for change actors to continue to operate in Turkey. The interpellants address the arrests of the two party leaders and other representatives of the HDP party. These events are extremely worrying, and it is important that HDP's representatives are released and that the party be allowed to carry out its parliamentary mandate. On this I have made a statement, and the government is also behind the EU statement on this issue. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also called the Turkish ambassador. Attacks against HDP representatives risk fuelling the already existing contradictions in the country. The government underlines the importance of a return to the steps towards inclusive dialogue in Parliament that we saw after the coup attempt. At the same time, the fighting in the south-east of the country is continuing, which is affecting the mainly Kurdish civilian population. A return to the peace process with the PKK is necessary for the continued democratisation of the country and the stability of the region. The government is in favour of the EU acting together and clearly in order to uphold respect for human rights and the rule of law in Turkey. The commitment to Turkey is balanced with clear criticism. The EU accession process, with its clear conditions, is our main tool for promoting sustainable democratic development in Turkey in the long term. Against this background, the Government does not wish to suspend the negotiations. The government believes that suspension is not the best way to promote positive developments in Turkey in the long term. However, the possible reintroduction of the death penalty is not compatible with EU membership. Turkey is a central partner for Sweden on important issues such as trade, anti-terrorism and migration. The EU's and Turkey's migration statement in March of this year included a joint response to the situation of large migratory and refugee flows. The aim was to combat trafficking in human beings and limit illegal migration from Turkey to Greece and to create legal ways into the EU for protection. The number of people illegally entering the Greek island world has fallen sharply. The Migration Statement also underlines respect for international rules and standards, including the right to protection and individual asylum examination. It is in the interests of both parties that implementation continues and that both sides live up to their commitments. The government works bilaterally, within the EU and in other multilateral fora such as the Council of Europe, the OSSE and the UN to bring about change. I have underlined to the Turkish Government how we view developments, and I intend to do so until the situation improves. The government will also continue to express solidarity and engage with those groups in Turkey that are fighting for continued democratisation and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms.
i-0f89b846766ec571-13	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply. This autumn, hardly a day has passed without new bad news from Turkey. Day after day and step after step democracy is dismantled, human rights are restricted and the scope for all free and independent voices in the country is restricted. 110 000 people have been fired or suspended from their jobs since the summer. More than 30,000 of them are teachers. 37 000 people have been imprisoned. Six thousand of them belong to the Left and Opposition Party HDP. 160 newspapers and news channels have been shut down. 19 trade unions can no longer operate. This weekend we have seen how violent bullies have attacked offices belonging to the opposition party HDP. I have to admit that it is sometimes difficult to take in the extent of these massive attacks on fundamental human rights. But it is important to remember that behind all these figures there are men and women. A month ago, I went down to Diyarbakhār in northern Kurdistan, eastern Turkey, to meet those who are currently suffering from the violence and abuse of President Erdo中an. I came to Diyarbakhār just over a week after 12 MEPs from the HDP were imprisoned, among them party leaders Sela hattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda. I met courageous lawyers, local politicians, feminists and human rights defenders in Diyarbakhār. I would like to tell you about some of those meetings. I met Feleknas Uca, the first Yazidian woman elected to the Turkish Parliament. The week before we met, she had been beaten on the street by Turkish police. Now she's risking 15 years in prison, even though she's a elected parliamentarian. She said the bags were already packed and stood waiting in the hall in case the police came. I met Gülistan Akel, who in 2014 was elected mayor of the city Batman – a city the size of my hometown Gothenburg. In September, she was deposed and spent a month in custody. She is not alone – more than 50 elected mayors have been appointed by the government of Ankara. I met Raci Bilici, Chairman of the IHD MR organisation. The organization is today forbidden to make statements, and its employees sleep in different places every night because they are so afraid to be arrested. I asked Raci what the risk was for him to be arrested himself. He replied: that risk is 100 percent. I visited the women's organisation KJA, the Free Kurdish Women's Congress. Its President is already in prison. Its offices had already been raided. KJA is also part of the Swedish Mediation Lab project run by Operation 1325 and brings together organisations that work with women, conflicts and peace. The day after my visit to KJA, the organisation, along with 370 other civil society organisations, was closed. Two days after my visit, the police entered the premises where I had sat and met representatives of KJA. The message of all these brave women and men I met in Diyarbak was crystal clear. They said, "Erdoo, it hasn't broken us. " We're not giving up. We will continue to fight for democracy and human rights, but we need your support and your solidarity. Many of the people I met welcomed the fact that Mrs Wallström had called Turkey's ambassador and had been so clear in the statements made, such as the fact that HDP's representatives had to be released. But it was also very clear that words are no longer enough. We must put pressure behind the words and raise the price for President Erdo中an to imprison elected parliamentarians. Therefore, when I hear Mrs Wallström's answer, I have to say that it would have been an excellent answer a year ago, but more is needed today; one must be prepared to put pressure behind the words. I regret that Mrs Wallström says that it now wants to continue the accession negotiations with Turkey and that it wants to continue paying Turkey to be the EU's border police. It won't hold!
i-0f89b846766ec571-25	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you, Mrs Wallström, for your answer. Just as we discussed here, and as Mr Hans also mentioned, there is daily news of the worst forms of violations of human rights and elected politicians. Today we were told that HDP's office in Kayseri has been burned down. During the election campaign I myself became a witness in two cities, Alanya and Antalya, where Erdo中an and the AKP party, already during the first round of elections and long before the coup attempt, started a war against oppositionists and the pro-Kurdian party HDP and its members. Turkey is today a country that it is difficult to regard as a rule of law. Arms are being delivered to the terrorist organisation IS and elected party political representatives are imprisoned: Demirtaş, Figen, twelve other members and 50 mayors. A country that has imprisoned so many journalists cannot be considered democratic. One of the most talked about is Erdo中an, a Kurdish journalist who has received awards in Sweden and internationally. She is in prison, along with many other journalists. This is Turkey. My question to Sweden and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore whether it will be clear. After all, the ambassador has been called up, but it may not be enough to do so only once. You have to be very clear. Sweden must take the initiative to bring the parties together and ensure that peace negotiations are opened. Turkey says that the PKK is a terrorist, but this is the same terrorist organisation with which the state began peace negotiations! The Turkish State knows that it is the organisation that has popular support, and peace negotiations were therefore initiated. Then the peace negotiations were broken, and the EU agreed that the PKK is a terrorist organisation. So the question is: why does the state start peace negotiations with this organisation and then, all of a sudden, itself much more violently against the Kurdish people? I witnessed this last spring and was searched for myself during the sieges of the town of Diyarb ak Цr. There were no people in the streets and squares, just tanks and police. This had already started in February. I was the first Swedish politician there on 17 February, and no journalists were allowed to come to the municipality of Sur. This war began long before the so-called coup attempt, which Erdo中an uses as a pretext to imprison further Kurdish and other oppositionists. We must be very clear about this. My question is whether the Foreign Minister will take the initiative to bring the parties to the peace negotiations and put an end to the war. Turkey must be stopped in order for some kind of peace to be achieved in this region.
i-0f89b846766ec571-34	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say that these are two extremely important interpellations, and I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply, although I have not written them. First of all, I would like to say that terrorist attacks, attempts at coup d'état and more are never acceptable. However, the way in which Turkey has acted is also not acceptable: a lack of respect for human rights and the rule of law, the imprisonment of parliamentarians without legal basis, the closure of the media and a lack of respect for freedom of assembly and political commitment, to name a few examples. At the same time, as has been said here before, it is important to try to get the parties back to the negotiating table. We have seen in many countries how conflicts are being cemented more and more, and what is going on in Turkey must be stopped. I know that work is going on in all the political arenas that exist, but this is clearly not enough. If Turkey had ratified the Rome Statute and participated in the International Criminal Court, it would have been a way forward to find a peaceful solution that would allow ordinary people to feel that there is an opportunity to make their voice heard. The situation is alarming. We have all been able to take note here of the legislative proposals presented by the current government in Turkey. I am thinking not least of the proposal on child marriage, which was thankfully withdrawn. But I see it as proof that there are serious processes going on in Turkey. The outside world must therefore clearly act and put pressure on Turkey to get Turkey to sit down at the negotiating table and apply the principles of the rule of law, find solutions that are acceptable to the people and stop persecuting the Kurds. I have also been to Turkey a large number of times, and what upsets me is that all the Kurds are often drawn over. Terror attacks are not acceptable, no matter who carries them out. However, putting all Kurds on an equal footing with terrorists is not acceptable either. A Kurdish has the same right to enjoy the principles of the rule of law as all other people, and there must be an end to the persecution of Kurds. My question is: what more can Sweden do to put pressure on the Turkish Government, raise its voice and the rest of Europe? This is not about what an individual country can do, but about the need for the outside world to come together and be very clear in its condemnation and position. Break the conflict now! Stop the persecution!
i-0f89b846766ec571-41	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to begin by thanking the interpellants Hans Linde and Amineh Kakabaverh, Margareta Cederfelt for her comments and the Foreign Minister for a good answer. This is a very serious and alarming situation. There are abuses of people every day in Turkey, especially those who have worked for a democratic Turkey and wanted it to develop in the right direction in terms of democracy, human rights, a strong civil society and so on. Since the attempt at a military coup on 15 and 16 July, we see President Erdo中an taking advantage of the situation on the pretext of stopping coupsmen. Instead, it uses the means at its disposal to target the very people who are working to promote democracy. Some rights have a country facing such a serious situation as a coup d'état. For example, Article 15 of the ECHR allows certain restrictions to be applied in order not to comply with fundamental rights. But that does not mean restricting absolute rights – the right to life, the prohibition of torture, the prohibition of slavery and forced labour as well as the principle of law if no punishment without law. On 4 November, the leaders of Turkey's third largest party, HDP, Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekda At the same time, we see that this is being used to arrest members of parliament, municipal politicians, mayors and others, just as the interpellants here have highlighted. We must understand that these people are also at risk of other types of abuse while they are under arrest. The Torture Committee has often said that there are many stages and cases where representatives of civil society, lawyers and others when they are arrested may also be subjected to torture and other abuse on the ground. Then my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is how Sweden can further demand that political representatives have access to a fair trial in Turkey and the right to appeal against them in accordance with the principles of the European Convention.
i-0f89b846766ec571-46	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Hans, Mr Amineh, Mr Lawen and Mrs Margareta for their contributions, for your commitment and for what you are doing. What you have done in the form of travel, contacts and other things you have described here is not harmless. It also reflects a political strength that we have a great consensus. We also see it in Swedish society, because we have a large Turkish diaspora here and a broad commitment and a lot of debate about what is happening in Turkey. It is also the most important platform for political action. At the same time, you express very well what everyone feels: What do we do beyond what we have done so far? Is there anything more we can do to influence Turkey in this difficult situation? It's with dismay that we've seen developments lately. There is broad agreement in Parliament and in the EU on this. These are not easy discussions we have had in Europe. It is our main foreign policy platform, and it is through the European Union that we regulate much of our recurring dialogues with Turkey. That is where the process is established. From the Swedish side we have broad bilateral cooperation and a good dialogue with Turkey. It is not least through our bilateral reform support that we can continue to work very broadly and with a range of Turkish actors. We cooperate with parties that pursue issues of freedom of expression and the rule of law. They're watching trials. The diminishing scope for opposition and civil society makes this work even more important. Both bilaterally and within the EU, we are following this very development closely. What we have signaled is to use these contacts even more and to ensure that we are there. Of course, one might think that it would be a powerful signal to interrupt the EU cooperation and the process that is now established, but the reverse of this is that clear criteria and an established process in the application negotiations and the EU process are something that the opposition and those on the ground with which we have spoken are very keen. It can therefore be to the detriment of doing so. We have not felt that the most important thing right now is to interrupt the process. However, as you know, no negotiations are currently taking place. We believe that we must continue through the European Union and bilaterally. We shall continue the EU membership procedure with its criteria as an important framework for our dialogue. On the other hand, I believe that the financial price will be something that the Turkish Government and the President will notice very early.
i-0f89b846766ec571-52	Mr President, I would like to I have to admit that I have been thinking several times over the last few years that things cannot get worse in Turkey and that Erdo中an has reached its limit. But I think we need to realize that we've been naive. Erdo中an has made his choice. He has embarked on a path towards dictatorship in Turkey. His ambitions for power have no limits. He has no limitations in his struggle to wipe out all forms of opposition in Turkey. This illustrates the examples. It shows the figures for how many people have been fired, imprisoned and so on. Another example is that last summer Turkey chose to withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights. There are today two countries in Europe that do not support, work and comply with the European Convention on Human Rights ugliness: Turkey and Belarus. We have a plethora of sanctions against Belarus, quite rightly, but as far as Turkey is concerned, we do not see any discussion on sanctions. Instead, the government is talking about Turkey as a central partner. I have been to both Turkey and Belarus this year. They are not identical controllers, but the similarities are increasing. Just as we have been prepared to force our words on Belarus, so we must do the same with regard to Turkey. Mrs Wallström asks: Is there anything more we can do? If there is one thing I have learned in the years I have been on the Foreign Affairs Committee, it is that if one is to promote democracy and human rights in a country that has a very undemocratic or authoritarian leadership, the most important thing is to listen to the people who are in that country and who are working for democracy and human rights. We need to hear what demands they are making and what they want us to do to support their work. This is exactly what we have done in the Left Party. The demands that we have made here in Parliament and that we are making on the Swedish Government and on the Turkish Government are demands that we have formulated after dialogue with, among others, HDP and representatives of civil society. HDP is clear that they want the EU to continue to have a membership perspective for Turkey. They want the EU to keep the door open for EU membership. So do we in the Left Party. But all the HDP representatives I met were also crystal clear about the fact that here and now you cannot sit down and negotiate. Here and now, negotiations should be suspended and clearly conditional on the cessation of violence against civilians, the respect of fundamental human rights by the Ankara Government and the release of Demirtaş, Yüksekda, and the other imprisoned politicians, mayors and representatives of the HDP. Mrs Wallström said here earlier that the EU accession process is our main tool for promoting sustainable democratic development in Turkey. I would like to know, then, how well the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks that the EU negotiations serve as a tool for promoting democracy in Turkey. What progress has been made in Turkey thanks to these negotiations? Looking back over the past few years, I think we can see that the EU makes concessions on a point-by-point basis, opens new chapters in the negotiations and promises various things – visa-free and other – but Erdo中an chooses to stop all these concessions in his pocket and does not move a millimetre or make concessions himself. All the people I met in Turkey were also deeply critical of the refugee agreement that the EU has concluded with Turkey, both because it is selling out the rights of refugees and because it is selling out the opposition in Turkey. It is clear that the result has been closed borders for the refugees and more dangerous journeys for the refugees, who are forced to travel to North Africa and are smuggled across the Mediterranean from there, and it is also seen that this has put President Erdo中an in a position where he can hold the whole of Europe hostage. I have a question for Mrs Wallström. There are concrete proposals for what Sweden can do. Why is Margot Wallström not listening to the demands that people are now travelling from, among other things, HDP?
i-0f89b846766ec571-61	Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State! As I said, the EU has paid a sum for Turkey to stop refugees from Asia and the Middle East. It has reinforced Erdo a position. The EU and Sweden are economically and politically rewarding a repressive dictatorship, which is becoming even more terrible, in the Middle East and in the region. This is unacceptable in view of what is happening in Turkey. We've been saying that all along. That's what HDP said. We in the Left Party have maintained this since the beginning of the summer when we saw developments with our own eyes in the cities where we as election monitors watched both the first and the second round of elections. It was seen that Turkey is moving towards a repressive dictatorship state, an Islamic state that wants to compete with the other powers in the region. This is what we are negotiating with. He has also used this to even more silence Sweden and other countries. We in Sweden must do something. It is expected by a Social Democratic government and by Margot. It is not just because the Turkish diaspora is so large and because there are so many Kurds. The Kurds throughout this region and especially in Turkey have become the largest ethnic group in the world that does not have its own cultural, political, social and economic rights. Something must be done about this. In Turkey, newspapers and television stations are being shut down. The children's canal opened yesterday or the day before yesterday. There are soon no newspapers left for the Kurds to read, so that they can analyse the development on their own terms. It is this Turkey that is an EU candidate. It is this Turkey that has been financially rewarded for stopping refugees. According to Swedish media reports, around 500 political refugees from Turkey have fled to Sweden only in recent months, since last summer. Every day we get information about small boats filled with refugees. Refugees on their way to Greece are drowning in the sea near Izmir. Turkey is doing nothing to stop this. You've just let other doors open for people to escape. It reinforces Turkey when the EU rewards millions of dollars or billions of euros. Why not a financial sanction? Point sanctions are good against a regime that does this to its own people, to its own politically elected, to parties and to citizens. We won't reward any more. I hope Margot and the government take on these things. These are not, in fact, demands that only we here in the speaker's office claim. It is also the opposition and Kurdish and Turkish writers, journalists and other politicians who want us to do something. Because we are their voices when they cannot assert themselves.
i-0f89b846766ec571-67	Mr President, I would like to In the Riksdag, we work members across party boundaries within, among other things, the Riksdag's human rights network in Turkey. We are doing what we can, but that is clearly not enough. We write letters. We're in dialogue. We're arranging seminars. I know that there are similar networks around Europe in this House that act in exactly the same way as we do. We also have a friendship group with Kurds in the Riksdag. Also in this network we arrange the same kind of activities. We are frustrated by the developments that are taking place. One more change has to be made. Blockader may be something – economic sanctions against individuals, just as there are against Russia and as there are against individuals in Belarus. Maybe it's something. A change must be made. There must be a stop to what is going on in Turkey. I am also thinking of the Kurds in Sweden. I have met several Kurds who no longer want to celebrate n awroz, the great feast that Kurds of tradition always celebrate. They express concern for their relatives who remain. They do not come into contact with their relatives because the internet is off and off. You can't call me. Can't be seen. I do not want to hear any more of my Kurdish friends say: What can be done? That is the question asked by the Kurds. What can you do?
i-0f89b846766ec571-71	Mr President, I would like to I share the frustration of the interpellants today. This is a devastating situation. We're not getting away from that. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also shares that view. The issue here is what is strategically wise to do. I think we need to get on with the demanding approach. I am extremely afraid of what it would be like if we did not continue to have a dialogue with Turkey, if we were actually talking about sanctions against a country with 3 million refugees and if we were discussing that we should not sit at the negotiating table with this party, no matter how many abuses it is committing. What alternatives are we giving Turkey then? I am afraid of these developments, because I know that Turkey has, to some extent, other players to cooperate with than a Europe that actually upholds democratic principles, the principles of the rule of law and that we can see a country developing in the right direction. Of course, I am even more sorry that we are not actually sitting at a negotiating table where we can make Turkey a further rapprochement party because of the abuses that we are committing. But I also know what alternative we can put this country in if we close the negotiations and if we do not continue with the required rapprochement. This is the political difficulty we face when discussing Turkey. Everyone is pissed off and sad about the development we see. It's our friends who are in prison. It is our friends who are in this terrible situation. But I do not share the view that we should now close the door to further talks and that we should talk in terms of sanctions. It is also about the most vulnerable people. They are then faced with a situation in which it is their economy and their ability to continue a decent life that is at stake. That's where I think we share opinions.
i-0f89b846766ec571-76	Mr President, I would like to Interpreters and all those who have been involved in the debate! It is precisely the frustration that you express. What else can we do today? I think it is very important to stick to what offers a framework and a process for this type of conversation, and that, of course, is the European approach. I believe that it is also very important for the opposition and civil society in Turkey that this exists, because it is about setting clear criteria. As you know, there are currently no actual negotiations. Turkey, in particular, made great progress until the beginning of the 21st century, in response to Mr Hans. We could see that reforms were in place. There was a lot of reform effort. Unfortunately, we have seen a serious decline since then. Some progress has been made in relation to the akin, i.e. the common regulatory framework for the EU, but the decline has been in key areas, such as human rights. As things stand at the moment, there are no negotiations. But I think it would be devastating for democratic development, for the opposition and for the possibility of providing support for the opposition now to mark that Europe is withdrawing and that we are closing this door. That is also the main difference between Turkey and a country such as Belarus: in any case, until now, there has been live media, the press, a civil society that is very, very active and also a lively debate in Turkey. It is important to continue to support those forces in Turkey that are in favour of a Turkish EU process and that wish for a different development and a return to reforms that strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law. Unfortunately, the EU was also unable to agree on conclusions for enlargement. This shows that if we were to propose sanctions, we have no means of getting support for it. I believe that we must always be prepared to use the whole political and diplomatic toolbox, but it is also about the choice of strategy and relations with Turkey in the future. What is the best result in the long term? We believe that it is important to do several things at the same time, from statements that mark where we stand– as you remember, I made statements about what Margareta and others mentioned, that is, how to change the legislation and actually reduce the protection of children who have been victims of sexual abuse, which gave very strong reactions from the Turkish Government – and about acting together in the European Union and, of course, in bilateral contacts and with our support for reform, providing assistance to the free and independent voices that can drive the debate also in Turkey. We must continue to stick to the European process, and I would also like to say that it is important to speak properly about the facility for refugees in Turkey. The intention is for this EUR 3 billion to go to the refugees in Turkey, and so far Turkey has broadly lived up to its commitments and, not least, offered opportunities for refugees to work. Most of the money goes to the UN agencies that are active on the ground.
i-0f89b846766ec571-84	Mr President, I would like to It is important to recall that when Margot Wallström and Lawen Redar here argue for the continuation of EU negotiations and the continuation of a refugee agreement between the EU and Turkey, they not only argue against us who are in this House, but also argue against a great many forces in Turkey who now say that Sweden and the EU must put pressure behind the words and act by subjecting the EU negotiations to Erdo It is said that the EU should break the refugee agreement that has been concluded with Turkey, both because it has led to closed borders for refugees, which has resulted in more human trafficking across the Mediterranean, and because it has resulted in the opposition in Turkey being placed in an even tougher situation. I understand that a Social Democratic Foreign Minister cannot all listen to the Left Party – that would be strange – but I am a little surprised that one does not choose to listen more to the opposition that exists in Turkey and their clear demands. After all, they have proposals that could be taken forward. One of the people I met in Turkey was MEP Pir Ziya. He is now at risk of imprisonment, of course, because he belongs to the HDP. He also has German citizenship, and I asked him why he is still in Turkey and does not go to Germany and go into exile instead. Pir Ziya replied: 6 million people have voted for me in this country. On the day you give an opportunity to these 6 million and their families to leave Turkey and go into exile in Europe, then I will follow. But until that day, I will continue to be here to fight. There are just so many arguments within the opposition and within civil society: we will continue to fight. The resignation we sometimes face in Sweden is a luxury for those of us who are in a democracy. We cannot afford that today in Turkey. Then the question is: What should we do in Sweden to give these brave men and women our support? What can we do to make them feel that they have a friend and ally in Sweden? I think the first thing we have to do is listen to what they're asking us to do.
i-0f89b846766ec571-90	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. There is great frustration, and the repression of millions of people in Turkey is totally unacceptable. We must do something about that. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she will take the initiative in the near future from Sweden but also within the EU to release the elected HDP politicians who are in prison, as well as journalists, writers and oppositionists who are simply critical. There are also those who are ill, such as Aslő Erdo中an whom I mentioned, a Kurdish writer who is in prison and is very ill and does not receive the care she needs. I would also like to ask whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden is prepared to try, within the EU, or from Sweden as an individual country, to get the parties to come to peace negotiations. It is simply the only way to find a political solution. It is not possible through the war that Erdo中an has started; it is only through dialogue and political solution that peace is possible for the Kurds and for the entire region of the Middle East. You have to do something. When someone has started a war against their own people, other parties have to interfere, and I expect both Sweden and the EU to do something quickly and quickly before it escalates, before more attacks take place, before more people are imprisoned, killed, murdered and driven on the run.
i-0f89b846766ec571-94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this debate. It has been very important and reflects the commitment, the knowledge and even the courage not only of Members of Parliament but all the others in Sweden who feel the same despair and frustration that you have all mentioned about the situation in Turkey. What can we do? We shall continue to work through international and European bodies. We shall continue to ensure that we are supported by the other EU Member States. We've always been there at the head and pushed. It is a continuous attitude from the Swedish side, and it is very important. In addition, everyone knows that we have excellent bilateral contacts, and we are also using them now to press. We say very clearly to our partners what we think about the situation regarding the principles of the rule of law, human rights and democracy, and we are, of course, concerned in the same way as you do. Furthermore, we shall use our support for reform very clearly, and we shall help the courageous men and women in Turkey in the knowledge that Europe is not closing the door. We are not saying that we are now stopping negotiating with you, now we are introducing sanctions, now we are withdrawing everything that has hitherto been our opportunity to influence the process, for what would then happen in Turkey? However, that does not mean that we are fully committed to negotiating right now. Remember, too, that the money in the refugee settlement goes to education, health care and work! It is money that goes to food, clean water and shelter to nearly 1 million people. This is actually helping Turkey deliver right now. One should be correct in how to describe how this money is used. If we pull it away, we've lost a lot, too. The government is continuing its work, and we will also provide protection to the people from Turkey who need it.
i-0f89b846766ec571-100	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah has asked me whether I intend to work for Iraq's minorities to be part of the future political solution in Iraq and, if so, how, if it is my position that minorities should have their own autonomy in Iraq, what possible initiatives or measures on my part, such as Massoud Barzani's statements on taking over land won by Isis/ Daish, if I and the government have taken action following Amnesty's reports on ethnic cleansing on the part of the KRG and whether I and the government are working to ensure that Iraq's central government does not end up in political conflict or arms conflict with the Kurdish autonomy of the KRG, and in what way. I share Robert Hannahs's concern about the long-term development of Iraq and the risk of renewed conflict after the global coalition has achieved its goals in the fight against Daish. The way forward must be an inclusive political process involving national reconciliation, reform, dialogue, respect for international law, the rule of law and human rights. This is necessary in order not to jeopardise instability and conflicts between different religious and ethnic groups, and to resolve disputes in a peaceful and democratic way. The same applies to the question of future control over the areas at issue. In the long term, it is this broad political process that is crucial to establish legal rule and protection for Iraq's minorities and to resolve the issue of autonomy of minorities in Iraq. The government believes it is up to the people of Iraq to decide what this process should look like. The national community can support the process. The Government has an ongoing dialogue with representatives of various minority groups both in Sweden and in Iraq. For example, I met representatives of Yazidians, Assyrians, Chaldeans and Syrians in Iraq during my last visit to the country. So have my colleagues and the Prime Minister. Reports of violence against civilians in the fight against Daish are, of course, something that the government takes very seriously. The importance of respecting international humanitarian law and human rights is consistently highlighted in the political dialogue that we have with our counterparts in Baghdad and Erbil. The Swedish military trainers in the Kurdistan region also have as one of their tasks to train the local defence forces in international law and human rights. Sweden is working to promote an inclusive political process in Iraq in all fora, including the EU, the UN and the global coalition against Daish, and we continuously address this in our contacts with representatives of the Government of Baghdad and Kurdistan Regional Government, KRG, most recently during the Prime Minister's trip to Baghdad and Erbil in October. The Prime Minister also expressed his concern at the abuse of ethnic and religious minorities. Mr President, I would like to The government continuously calls on both the central government of Baghdad and the KRG to engage in dialogue and cooperation. UN intervention in Iraq, UNami, plays an important role in supporting the political process and national reconciliation in various ways. Sweden supports UNami in these efforts and has close contacts with the UN on the ground in Iraq. The government is also working on conflict prevention through aid to Iraq. In the new bilateral development cooperation strategy developed by the government with Iraq, the focus will be on peace-building, state-building and gender equality. The government has also given new support to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) stabilisation fund aimed at re-establishing areas freed from Daish and enabling people to return to their homes. This work is central to the government's efforts to avoid continuing conflicts between different groups in Iraq. Sweden is also promoting increased EU involvement in long-term stabilisation efforts in Iraq.
i-0f89b846766ec571-106	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for a detailed answer to my interpellation. I fully share the view of the Foreign Minister of what the Swedish operation in Iraq is for. It is gratifying that our soldiers have the task of training also in international law and human rights. The funds for UNDP and the effort of UNami are incredibly good contributions. Sweden is doing a lot for Iraq, and we should be proud of that. It is also gratifying to hear that the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have, in their bilateral contacts, voiced criticism of the central government of Iraq and the Kurdish self-government for the abuses committed, particularly with regard to the well-known Amnesty report. Those of us who want Iraq well must also be the fastest and most obvious critics of crimes against international law and other types of crime, especially when we support the military. My view is that the greatest threat to peace and stability in Iraq is the extremely harsh sectarianism in the country. If the outside world allows retaliation against Iraq's Sunni Muslims for Isis actions, we risk sending many young boys and girls right into the hands of Isis or other terrorist organisations. If Iraq's other communities send out signals that it is Isis who can protect the people, they will turn there. It is important that we show the opposite. Many of the country's minorities see themselves as unprotected. They're the ones who get to take the biggest blow when things happen. I have met a Member of this Parliament in Iraq who described it as the football that is being pushed between different strong communities in the country, namely the Kurds, Sunni Muslims and Shia Muslims. It must not continue to be so. The Foreign Minister has answered the questions well, but I would like three clarifications. The first point is that the President of the KRG, Massoud Barzani, states that he does not intend to return land which he has taken back from Daish which is not part of the KRG. In what way has the Minister of Foreign Affairs publicly criticised these statements? There was no such criticism in the answer. The second clarification concerns support for the country's minorities. I wonder what the government can do specifically to ensure that UNDP funds actually arrive. We are both fully aware of how incredibly corrupt the country of Iraq is, and even the KRG has major problems with corruption. When I have been there and talked to both the Yazidian group and the Assyrian group, they have said that they feel that the help is not getting through. UNDP funds are channelled through the central regimes. When that happens, you have to be incredibly clear that the money actually comes out, and there has to be strong feedback. I can't believe the corruption. I know hardly any Yazidians have returned to the Sinjar area. That's because they must have something to return to. If there is no electricity, schools or roads, building houses will not help. The funds have not been made sufficiently clear. The dealer must be very clear about the money. The third clarification concerns the announcement by the Central Government of Iraq on 21 January 2014, i.e. prior to the IS/ Daish invasion, that it intended to create provinces for minorities, including on the plain of Nineves. It is quite clear that Iraq's minorities are dying. They will not remain unless clearer measures are taken. It is possible to talk about peace and stability, but unless the minorities feel that this is happening in their daily lives, they will not be there. The population of Mandés, which included 200,000 people in the United States invasion of Iraq, is barely present in the country. Other ethnic groups – minority people – are dying. Without self-government, they will not remain in the future. Why can the Minister for Foreign Affairs not take a clearer stand because the groups should be given the right to self-government? If only the people of Iraq will decide, then there will be no autonomy for minorities in the future because most people do not want them well.
i-0f89b846766ec571-118	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply, and I thank the interpellant for the urgent question and for the perspectives expressed by the interpellant. It is extremely important to protect the minorities that exist in Iraq. It is a country with great pluralism, and it is a country with a long history of oppression against different minorities. At various historical stages, oppression has taken different forms. Minorities, depending on what they have been exposed to, have a paranoid attitude to what is to come in view of the balances of power that exist in a state. History plays a role. Power plays a role. Political expression plays a role. It can also be an over-analysis of what the different strategic stages will mean in the future. I also believe that sectarianism is devastating, and I think that somewhere Sweden's continued position, which has so far been extremely good, must be about that all peoples have the right to self-determination, the right to describe how the future for Iraq will be post-Daish. The minorities that currently exist in Iraq should have the right to express a will for the future and receive support from Sweden. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressed this well in all the strategies that Sweden has shown in the management of Iraq. We have supported the coalition and the Iraqi army with the Peshmerga forces to fight Daish. It has been an extremely important piece of work. I miss what has been good for Syria, the Syria strategy, which is about long-term building – resilience. It is about looking at the groups that have the ability to build schools, education, health care and so on. The question is whether, like the Syria strategy, Sweden could, with a clearer effort for Iraq, look at the groups that have that capacity. It is about building up long-term areas that have unfortunately been exposed to Daish's progress and abuse but which have now been freed. Is it possible to look at similar strategies for resilience building, for school and education, for mine clearance and so on? Does Sweden have strategies beyond the humanitarian aid sent to Iraq?
i-0f89b846766ec571-124	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we can agree, including across party boundaries, on the analysis and view of the situation in Iraq and on what needs to be done in the future. We from the Swedish side have always stressed the importance of early planning for the time also after, with the help of the global coalition, military goals have been achieved in the fight against Daish. We need an inclusive political process, as Robert Hannah says, national reconciliation, reform, dialogue, respect for international law and human rights, the principles of the rule of law and, of course, the position of minorities. This is the only way forward if we want democratic development and stability in Iraq. It is also the only way to resolve one of the most difficult questions of control over the disputed areas. What we can do is constantly, in the context of the UN and the European Union and in bilateral contacts, call both the central government of Baghdad and the KRG for dialogue and cooperation. Now the question of control over the disputed areas is not just a matter for the Government of Baghdad and the KRG, but it is really important that the various minorities have their voices heard. Then we can support that process. In response to Mr Lawens' question, on 14 December we decided on the new five-year development cooperation strategy with Iraq. It will be based on the needs created by the conflict situation in the country with a focus on peace and state building and gender equality. For this we allocate between SEK 600 million and SEK 1 billion for the period 2017 – 2021. It will be a platform for us to discuss how the work is to be done. Even if one understands the frustration, it is difficult to say in detail what the process should look like for the various minorities. It must be guaranteed that it is inclusive, that it has a voice and an influence throughout the process. With good friends, they can also give criticism, and that also applies on our part. It is known that we have been a long-standing and good partner who has in every way supported Iraq with funds, political and humanitarian. Then we can also discuss the danger ahead with sectarianism and not creating inclusive processes. Now that we are giving money to the UNDP, 90 million extra, a question that we always ask is whether we can ensure that they arrive. At the same time, it is always a criticism that comes back that we could be even more targeted or that we do not get where we want to go. But we usually go through the UN agencies to deliver our support. As far as statements are concerned, in the political process we are trying to talk about that here it is no help if you go out and say things that will then only create even more of divisions and contradictions. We are constantly trying to have the same message about inclusive processes and dialogue.
i-0f89b846766ec571-132	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs and thank you, Mr Redar. I think I share the honourable Member's view that we need to have a more long-term view of how Iraq is to develop, because over the past 10 – 15 years there have always been subversive things, and there has not been a sufficiently long-term view. I just want to give a picture of the situation of minorities in the country. When I was in Iraq last year, for example, I met many Yazidian youths who came from Mosul. They said to me: You think that the situation in Mosul suddenly arose, that all of a sudden there were people murderers, but that was not the case. Yazidian women could be raped at Mosul University without anything happening. We turned to the courts, but they didn't help us at all. We were considered to be the lowest of the lowest. The central government of Iraq and Kurdish self-government have also done nothing to make things better for these minorities. Among other things, laws have been passed on the marriage of children from the age of nine. A month ago, it was decided to ban alcohol. Just a year ago, religious rules were decided that if a parent converts to Islam, the children will also be forced to convert. Many legislations developed by the Iraqi Government in recent years do not mean that minorities should be able to remain in the country and be part of the inclusive process, on the contrary. There is no rule of law, there is no help from the courts, the laws discriminate strongly against minorities and society as a whole considers them to be pariah. Although developments are progressing at the moment, I believe that it must be clearly stated as a state that these peoples belong to Iraq, that they have the same right to be part of Iraq and that they should be subject to human rights as much as everyone else. I do not believe that these minorities will remain if we are not, as an incredibly good state that wants Iraq well, clearer in our criticism of the regime. I would therefore like clarification from the Minister. Has the Minister publicly criticised Massoud Barzani's statement that it does not intend to return land that has been taken back from IS? As far as corruption is concerned, it is great to work with the UNDP. However, in the case of Iraq, I believe that we need to ensure even more that the money is delivered. The Central Government of the KRG has not paid salaries in any number of months to people who have to support their families. What happens when funds come from other countries? This money has not come out well enough in the past, so you have to work harder to get it through. As far as self-government is concerned, I believe that, precisely for the reasons I explained here at the beginning, the Swedish state must be clear that if these communities are to survive and remain, the outside world must clearly say: Yes, you have the right to self-government. You should be able to gain more power over yourselves. They have absolutely no confidence in the outside world. They do not trust that neither the Central Government of the KRG nor the Central Government of Baghdad want them well enough. They want to be able to control funds for culture and means of community building. The areas of Sinjar, Nineveslätten and also the Turkmen areas were incredibly disadvantaged in terms of infrastructure even before IS came in, because nobody invests money and invests in these areas because they have no political power. I'd like some more clarification from the minister if that's okay.
i-0f89b846766ec571-142	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps some of the most complex situations in the world are those in Iraq and Syria. They are neighbouring countries, and parties that are so clearly terrorist organisations are committing abuse and using border areas to spread their terrible ideological positions. They also take over areas where people live and have the right to live in freedom and security. Iraq is a constitutional federation that has clearly stated which groups will be allowed to rule over different areas and how to deal with natural resources. But we also know that it is a country with widespread corruption and sectarianism. At the moment, some form of full-scale civil war is taking place between terrorist organisations and various groups that must defend themselves against them. That's why I think it's pretty hard to know exactly how to navigate to see what the long-term should be. What the government does is wise. It participates in the fight against terrorism but also helps in the long term in the form of humanitarian aid and aid to health care and institutions. It is the first and fundamental thing for getting institutions in place and creating some form of anti-corruption – and for the possibility of establishing the principles of the rule of law and their validity. Thereafter, the further development work must be political and relate to how these groups should look at the Federation and the Constitution, how the process should be equal between the groups, what they want to express themselves in a future Iraq and what this process should be like in the future at all. It is therefore important that we continue to navigate by building on the foundations a state that is borne by its own population and in which the groups have their rights met. Today it is too early to comment on what the land should look like and who will have to bear the right over one or another. We must continue to support these groups for their right to self-determination.
i-0f89b846766ec571-147	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lawen Redar and Robert Hannah. I agree with what Lawen Redar just said. We are using our main platforms, the EU and the UN, to push forward on these issues – against human rights violations and violations of international humanitarian law. We should pay particular attention to minority groups: children, women and other vulnerable groups and people. It also means that we must make it clear that we do not accept impunity. We have engaged in all three stages: in the political process, with humanitarian aid and with military aid in support of the coalition against Daish. I believe that the combined international support is essential for us to achieve a peaceful and stable Iraq in the long term. We are very concerned about the developments we have seen in Iraq recently. That is why, in my speech to the UN General Assembly in September, I pointed out the importance of the international community acting together to support Iraq. That is also something we will work for during our membership of the UN Security Council. In addition, we will use our new long-term development strategy with this particular focus to establish a political process that is inclusive and which also gives voice and influence to minority groups. As Mr Redar said, today we cannot finish drawing the map with all the lines, but we can guarantee that there is an opportunity for these minority groups to exist. We are all deeply moved by the Yazidians' struggle and the vulnerability to which they are subjected. It is important that this is highlighted and that we continue to work on all these tracks. For example, the dialogue we are currently having between the EU and Iraq is an important platform for this type of dialogue. Then Iraq can see that we will continue to support it in its reform efforts and in what is necessary to do in the future. Thank you for the debate. Of course, this work continues in every possible way, both with statements and, above all, with the dialogue that we already have with Iraq and the minority groups.
i-0f89b846766ec571-156	Mr President, I would like to If you talk to Iraq's minorities, there is a lot of praise for Saddam Hussein. Why? Well, you'd rather choose the plague than death. You'd rather choose a dictator than be the victim of genocide. One chooses a dictator rather than ethnic cleansing and is forced to leave one's homeland. What kind of signal have we sent? I am convinced that the situation is the same in Syria. Syria's minorities today support Asad. Why are they supporting Asad? Not because they like Asad, not because they think he's a good person and not because they think what he's doing to others in the population is good. No, they support him because the dictator is the only one who ensures that they are not exterminated. What happened in Iraq has a direct impact on what is happening in Syria today when Syria's minorities choose to support Asad. They'd rather take the dictator than death in their hands. We must begin to understand this in the outside world. If we do not support minorities so that they can survive and show them that they have a future and a place in the world, they will do everything they can to preserve the situation as it is. The situation is the same among the Copts in Egypt. Why do the Coptics support the terrible military regime? Because it's afraid of death. They're afraid of what's coming. We must be aware that what happened in Iraq became a story of how other minorities have come and will act. We are already seeing that if we do not support Iraq's minorities and say that they have the right to self-government, that they are an equal part of the country of Iraq, that Iraq's central government and corps cannot engage in corruption and that Iraq's central government cannot pass laws which, in practice, mean that minorities will have to leave the country, then we will not see the democratic development of the region as a whole.
i-0f89b846766ec571-162	Mr President, I would like to I think we do, Robert Hannah. We are just pointing out the risk of not giving a voice or creating an inclusive peace process. Right now, however, we are not ready to draw the map and say exactly what it will look like on the day you have won the battle against Daish. We have often debated protected zones. I understand the argument for, but I can also see the dangers. We must not create death traps or lock ourselves to something that exposes people to even greater danger. I have every respect for the argument, and every time we meet Iraqi representatives, we point to the risk of not creating an inclusive peace process and taking these very considerations into account. I can only agree and say that I believe that, with the support of a broad commitment in Sweden, we can express this forcefully. We also do it with money and a plan for how it should look like post-Daish in Iraq. We shall also work on all the international tracks that we deem necessary to ensure respect for the principles of the rule of law and human rights.
i-0f89b846766ec571-165	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah has asked me whether, by replying to written question 2016/ 17:196, I believe that there should be an open and lively debate on the genocide seyfo, whether my position is that a similar debate on the Holocaust, the Srebrenica massacre and the genocide in Rwanda should be allowed, whether it is my position that reconciliation talks can take place between the Assyrians/Syrians on the one hand and the State of Turkey on the other, and whether these can be regarded as equal parties, and whether it is my view that Turkey has an open and lively debate on the genocide in 1915, given that people who have stated that they believe it is genocide have been punished. Let me begin by stating that the government is committed to freedom of expression and opinion, including free and open debate, which is a fundamental part of the core of democracy. Such a debate should, of course, also be able to be held on the terrible events mentioned by the interpeller in his first question. We will continue to defend these human rights, while at the same time protecting victims and survivors of victims of abuse by dealing seriously with issues of abuse. What is required for conciliatory talks is that the parties involved take a respectful attitude towards each other and are genuinely open to a free debate. In addition, a central dimension for reconciliation is that conditions are provided for the conduct of free research – something that I have previously highlighted. If these conditions exist, I am convinced that reconciliation talks can take place even among unequal parties. Robert Hannah also wonders whether it is my position that in Turkey there is an open and lively debate about the mass assaults in the disintegrational Ottoman Empire, given that people who believe they were genocide have been punished. On this point, there is indeed much to be desired. The need for a free debate is great, and it is not just about the mass assaults in the decaying Ottoman Empire, but about the free debate and freedom of expression in Turkey in general. As the interpellier will be aware, I have been extremely clear in my criticism of developments in Turkey in this area. At the same time, we can note some progress. The picture is far from clear, but in some areas the existence of a critical approach to the official stance on mass abuse is gradually increasing. The number of publications and activities on the subject is increasing, not least last year. As you know, that year marked a hundred years after the historical mass assaults. With regard to the historical mass assaults in the decaying Ottoman Empire, it is important to bear in mind that the victims were not only Assyrians and Syrians but also other groups. The Swedish Government is actively working to promote free research, which in turn can hopefully lead to a respectful dialogue and, in the long run, reconciliation. Among other things, we contribute to a project concerning the creation of an Armenian institute in Istanbul through the Hrant Dink Foundation. The Institute shall act as a centre of knowledge and resources open to the public. In addition, we support cultural heritage activities involving the non-Muslim minorities in Turkey, including a book project dealing with the history of these people in various cities in Anatolia.
i-0f89b846766ec571-173	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I was not at all as happy with the answer to this interpellation as I was with the answer to the previous one. I want to be clear about that. In my opinion, only one of my questions is answered by the Foreign Minister, and this concerns freedom of expression in Turkey. I share the Minister's concern there, of course, but I want to be clear on one point: if the world around us and Sweden allow a country to get away with genocide, one cannot expect that country to learn from its behaviour, but it will continue to act in the same way. We see how Turkey treats its Kurdish population, journalists and freedom of expression, among other things, today. It is clear that there is a direct link between what you have got away with before and what is happening today. Mr President, I would like to My first and most important question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: should her answer be interpreted as meaning that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have now changed their opinion on the recognition of the genocide in 1915? Is this the final decision until 2018? Will the government not therefore honour the electoral promise that Stefan Löfven gave, among other things, in favour of 2,000 Swedish-Assyries in Södertälje in March 2014? What is the road map in the future? Is this the message you have to give? Are you going to betray the election promise that all your election workers went around giving for the 2014 elections? A clear answer to this would be helpful. There are two questions in which I do not think the Minister answers enough. Firstly, there is the question of an open and lively debate. All scientists agree that genocide has taken place, and the Minister believes that there needs to be an open, lively and free debate. I therefore wonder whether the Minister feels the same way about the genocide in Rwanda, the Holocaust and Srebrenica. Should we have an open and lively debate about whether or not the Holocaust has taken place, or should we be clear as politicians and as a state that it has actually taken place? I cannot remember that we are allowing such an open and free debate, but we are marking against the other genocides that have taken place in the 20th century. What is the difference with regard to this genocide? Secondly, I wonder about the conciliatory talks that the Minister mentioned. It needs to be recognized that there are different forces in this matter. Sure, Armenians were vulnerable, and there is an Armenian state, but the other people who were absolutely most vulnerable were Assyrians and Syrians, who have no state. How are conciliation talks to take place between this group and the Turkish state? Very many Swedish-Assyrians and Swedish-Syrians originate in Turkey. They're here today because of the genocide. If so, how should you have redeeming conversations? I would like to hear three questions. First of all, what is the government's attitude towards the genocide... is the message a no to acknowledge it? Secondly, should we have an open and lively debate on whether the Holocaust, Rwanda and Srebrenica have happened? Thirdly, does the Minister intend to help with the reconciliation talks? I know that many people wonder what we are doing on the issue of genocide. It's been 100 years. Why are we debating it? But it is a living question because the state that has committed this crime has made it a soul matter – a fundamental question – to deny its crime. This has been a basis for having been able to commit other crimes later. There are not so great differences between how Turkey treated these minorities then and how they treat their minorities today. Why once again let a state get away? As Turkey has made it a political issue to deny its crimes and actions, I think that the least one can ask of a strong democracy like Sweden is for us to stand up and say that this has happened and to acknowledge it. That is why Swedish recognition is so important: we are a democratic state, and the state that has committed the crime refuses to recognise this.
i-0f89b846766ec571-184	Mr President, I would like to We all agree on the following: in the decaying Ottoman Empire, during World War I, widespread abuse was committed against the Armenian community and other minorities. It is terrible to take note of accounts of what happened. Both reports from the Swedish Embassy in Constantinople and contemporary research at that time testify to an incredible number of people who were murdered, deported or forced to flee their homes. A significant part of the Christian population of the Ottoman Empire was killed. It is important that we remember and learn from the dark chapters of our European history. In Sweden, the lessons from history have laid the foundation for the importance we attach to respect for international law and human rights in our foreign policy. Several of the mechanisms for the protection of human rights developed in the 20th century emerged precisely from the experience of previous mass assaults, including that of the decaying Ottoman Empire. Knowledge of what has happened helps to prevent such abuse from happening again. Both you, Robert Hannah, and everyone else know that the concept of genocide is difficult and sensitive as well as who should decide whether it is this particular legal concept that should be used. Governments all over the world rarely speak out on the matter, for good reason, because we believe that it is courts that should use the concept. In view of this, when we came to power, we instructed Professor Pål Wrange, at a principled and general level, to highlight relevant legal, historical and other aspects of approaches and designations in connection with the history of mass abuse. It's one thing to look at what's going on right now and another to go a hundred years back and do it. Is it up to the government to decide this issue, and what will it mean? We have now carefully studied the report at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which helps us to understand and manage various events in the past. The report describes, among other things, the need for greater historical consensus, and that is what this is all about. We believe that the debate must take place in Turkey. This is important in order to agree on and establish what has happened. Wrange says that history must not be closed to research and debate but that it is important that the parties involved honestly try to determine what happened and in an open spirit discuss how events should be interpreted and valued. That's what his report says. It also mentions the UN rapporteur on transitional justice, Pablo de Greiff, and his point that historical facts are often manipulated for political and ideological purposes, which increases the risk of new conflicts. Wrange says that all parties should promote historical research and open archives for researchers, in order to have an open-minded review. The former alliance government also raised this issue, as I am sure Robert Hannah knows. They left the question of recognition without action. My predecessor also replied that it is independent scientists who are best placed to investigate historical events and how they should be labeled. Now we're talking about this, and I don't think you should drag all the other events into the picture. It is this event that we are discussing right now.
i-0f89b846766ec571-194	Mr President, I would like to I can honestly say that I agreed with the Social Democrats until September 2014. I thought it was courageous for Urban Ahlin to go out as an external spokesperson and say that the Social Democrats were going to do this when they came to power. I thought it was brave of Stefan Löfven to stand in front of 2 000 Swedish-Assyrians and say: If you choose me as Prime Minister, I will acknowledge this genocide. The Minister for Foreign Affairs knows very well that this issue is incredibly important to one of Sweden's largest minorities. Today we are at least 120 000 Swedes who have this background and who have family experiences from this genocide. In every debate I took part in on these issues, social democrats and environmental politicians stood and said: If you choose us and we get the government power, we will acknowledge this. What I think is cowardly, however, is that, once you have the power, you suddenly turn around and do not implement what you have promised for a great number of years. You can say what you want about the Alliance, but the Alliance would not have agreed to acknowledge this genocide if you came to power. On the contrary, it would have been clear that it would not. When I represented the Liberals during the 2014 election campaign, I could not make this promise. I never made that promise. I could not stand in front of 2 000 people and say that this is going to happen. But you did so in the red-green opposition. Then I think it is necessary to take responsibility for what has been said and promised the Swedish people, and in particular promised the Swedish-Syrian group, namely that if you come to power you will acknowledge this. I think it is very strange to say that a government should not do this. You should have known that before, too. You've been in government before. It becomes incredibly strange, and I think it is very cowardly to say one thing when you are in opposition and another when you are in government. You can say what you want about the opinion of the Moderates on the matter-- I disagree with it-- but at least they're consistent. With regard to what states may and may not do, I can say the following. Only last year did Germany acknowledge the genocide. France has acknowledged it, the United States has acknowledged it, and most Western powers have today acknowledged it. I am therefore not buying the argument that a government is restrictive on this issue. On the contrary, they have become much more clear on this issue, and many now dare to say so. I think it must be understood that this issue is not disconnected from the question of other genocides. In fact, this genocide is the very basis of the genocide convention. It was after this genocide happened that a researcher developed the concept and based his entire research on it. It is this genocide that is really the basis for research on this issue. In fact, I am very surprised that it is suddenly said that this is something other than the Srebrenica Holocaust and what happened in Rwanda. Tell that to the relatives of those who were murdered. It's nothing for the others. The Turkish State has made it its political ideology and its basic system to deny that this has happened. Systematic denial of crimes committed against other groups. Just as it denies crimes committed against the Kurds today, it denies crimes committed at that time. It has become part of their national identity. Then other states, which are democratic and free, and which have a large number of people who have fled from oppression in that state, cannot sit and say that they had no responsibility to do anything. It is precisely because Turkey refuses to take responsibility that Sweden must point out this crime. I would therefore like to hear a discussion as to why this is not needed against Turkey. It is not the case that Rwanda, Serbia and Germany do not recognise their crimes. They do. But Turkey does not recognise its crimes. There are dividing lines there, and I would like the Foreign Minister to talk about them.
i-0f89b846766ec571-208	Mr President, I would like to I think this is one of the most difficult debates we have because for the vast majority this becomes incomprehensible. Should it be so complicated to use this word? I guess it's just to say it. But it means something. It is therefore important that this is done in a legally and politically correct manner, and also so that it can contribute to reconciliation and help in a process of settling matters. What we did was ask Pål Wrange to illustrate this. What is to be done with what is historical recognition in that case, what took place a hundred years ago? What does that mean? Are governments supposed to do that? This has been difficult for every government. It doesn't get any better because you, Robert Hannah, say it's consistent, if you think in substance that the previous government should have done this, too. But at least we immediately started this work. Therefore, the Stockholm Center for International Law and Justice was commissioned to do this. The report says that the vast majority of historical mass assaults have not been the subject of any action by states that have not been directly involved in mass assaults. When it has caused reactions, it is usually from a small number of states. And in many of these cases it is not governments but parliaments that have made the statements. And, as I said before, it's important to learn from history to prevent repetition of mass assault. I can only note that the Government of Reinfeldt closed this case by adding the Parliament's announcement to the proceedings in July 2013. In that case, it might also give rise to some comment on the substance, and not just to comment on the process. Only a few governments have referred to the abuse of various ethnic groups as genocide. It is Armenia, Greece, France and the Vatican state. Each government, of course, makes its own assessment, and the approach to the issue varies. The vast majority have not spoken out in definite legal terms. I believe it is important to follow the recommendations or the conclusions reached by Pål Wrange in the report. There is also a great deal about stimulating a debate, in which those who think differently from the Turkish regime are given the opportunity to speak out, and where this can contribute to an understanding where historians are also used. It was also on the way in Turkey for a while to want this historical review. It would mean a great deal if we were to think about it in the long term in a process of reconciliation. Unfortunately, the whole situation has deteriorated as it is right now. And there we are. But this is our position of principle.
i-0f89b846766ec571-216	Mr President, I would like to What I mean when I say that one is consistent is that the Alliance in any case did not go around fooling the voters and said one thing and meant another. Stefan Löfven stood before 2 000 people and said: If you elect me Prime Minister, I will acknowledge this genocide. Foreign policy spokesperson Urban Ahlin went around and said it at every election meeting and square meeting he had, for example in Södertälje. Every Social Democratic politician I encountered in Sweden during the 2014 election campaign went around and said: If you choose us and we take power, we will acknowledge this. Then it is not consistent when one comes to power and does not do so. I was critical of the policy of the Moderates and other alliance parties on this issue, but they did as they said and as they promised. So they didn't do anything. But here it has been widely promised and kept incredibly thin on this issue. I just want clarification from the Secretary of State, otherwise I will have to come back here. Does this answer from Mrs Pål Wrange and your interpretation of the answer – does it really say that you can do anything but that there are political costs with it – that the government will not recognise the genocide during this term of office? Will the Foreign Minister do something on this issue during this term of office? Will the genocide be recognised or not? I think that 120 000 Swedes, who think that this issue is incredibly important, deserve a clear answer. Actually, I don't know what the conclusion is right now.
i-0f89b846766ec571-219	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that we can continue the debate on this. Above all, there must not be just a terminology debate without discussing what we are going to do today to prevent something similar from happening. If, for legal reasons, we cannot call abuse genocide, how do we prevent them? And how do we make sure to stop what's going on around the world? That is the most important task we have, regardless of the concepts we use. I think that is the frustration: that we have so few words that capture what we think we see. I have to admit that this is one of the most difficult debates we have, because it seems to me that it would be so simple. However, it is a convention that actually gives us a legal tool, and that is why we think it is the courts that should decide so that we can also make people accountable. I would also like to think that there is a difference between historical events and what is happening now and has happened during our lifetime, where we have actually also had a debate and have been able to determine very clearly what is happening on the ground. So it is also a question of history, and we believe today that everything we have been able to absorb better will contribute to a debate in Turkey as well. All who have comments must be heard, especially those who are survivors or victims of this, so to speak. That debate needs to continue.
i-0f89b846766ec571-222	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what initiatives I have taken to denounce to China the unethical nature of organ trafficking and what I intend to do in the future to put an end to organ trafficking in China. The Swedish Government takes seriously the allegations made about so-called organ trafficking in China. In 2015, the Chinese authorities imposed a ban on the use of organs from executed prisoners. However, there is evidence that the new rules are being circumvented. The EU community is closely following developments on this issue. The government is concerned about the situation regarding human rights violations in China. The issue is something that we regularly raise in talks with Chinese representatives, both bilaterally and through the EU. Not least, the EU and China's human rights dialogue are an important platform where, among other things, the issue of organ trafficking has been highlighted in the past. The death penalty, including transparency in statistics on the number of persons executed, has also been mentioned. The last meeting of the Human Rights Dialogue was in November 2015. These will continue to be important issues in our dialogue with China in the future.
i-0f89b846766ec571-225	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It is really rather sad that we should have to talk about this, because it is a shame. It is a disgrace not only to the Chinese regime but also to parts of humanity that they are dealing with something as bizarre as trafficking in human organs. It is an uncontrolled trade, even if it is done in a state-controlled manner. Let us make one thing clear from the outset: China is a rather bizarre phenomenon. It is a communist regime with a market economy. It should not really exist, but when this crosses, unfortunately, it becomes a dictatorship of the whole. It is a documented fact that this state-controlled organ trade exists in China. Tens of thousands of transplants are carried out in Chinese clinics, and the clinics market themselves across the host and offer transplants. There are price lists on the Internet where foreign speculators can be offered a new kidney for $70,000 and one liver for $120,000. In many cases, these organs come from executed prisoners. The country lacks other donation systems. Mr President, I would like to There are testimony that confirms that prisoners are executed and that the body is quickly taken care of in order to be able to operate out valuable organs. The organs are passed on to a hospital where the organ buyer is waiting. The healthcare chain is therefore well prepared; the prisoner has already undergone blood tests and tests for tissue type. Doctors assist in the procedure, and often there is a known recipient. Unfortunately, this terrifying scenario is reality, and its handling is contrary to all manner of decency. The general lack of organs means that illegal trade on the black market can exist. Many reports, including those from Amnesty, have shown that organ trafficking involves many intermediaries where doctors, health professionals and authorities receive compensation under the table. Organ trafficking also occurs in other countries, but the example of China makes it particularly clear how trade takes place on a large scale and systematically – and also on a state-sponsored basis. The ban imposed by China some time ago is probably a ban that works more on paper than in reality. Many of those affected by involuntary organ donations are falungong supporters. Falungong is that gymnastics where you gather in large places and in groups perform a fairly calm and quiet gymnastics. It is something that is not very attractive to a dictatorship – people who gather in large crowds in an open place can easily come up with something else. Falungongan hangers have become a grateful target group to put in prison. It is known that it is people who care and keep their bodies fresh, and their organs can therefore function in a secondary market. That's why falungong supporters are doubly afraid. They are not only afraid because they are persecuted because of the activities they carry out, but also because they may risk having their body parts transplanted. I thank the Minister for his answer, but on this basis I wonder if there is anything more concrete that Sweden could do to take the matter further. There are other countries that have taken that step.
i-0f89b846766ec571-233	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Rothenberg, who has made this extremely important and urgent intervention. I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply, but I would like to stress the importance of putting an end to illegal trade. This is not a new phenomenon. China's actions in dealing with human organs have been going on for decades. People have to put their lives to and in a very unethical way give away their organs. In many contexts, it also applies to people who are already dead. This is a trade involving large and serious criminality. It is not just the organ trade, but there are many other criminalities that are hidden in this context. In addition, there are desperate people who are doing everything they can to get an organ – whose life depends on them having an organ. I've met one of these people myself. It was a young man who was studying. I worked as a nurse in a dialysis ward. There was a queue to get an organ in Sweden, and it was not possible. The person got worse and worse and went somewhere. I don't know where the young man went, but I know his health wasn't safe when he came back. He had become ill by the organ. What I want to say about this is that it is a chain of unethical actions that does not belong in a modern world. It's a chain of crime that doesn't belong in a modern world. Just as Mr Rothenberg has lifted up, this is something that is happening in a country – with the approval of the authorities. Communist China does nothing to stop trade but allows it. I sincerely hope that there can be international cooperation aimed at stopping trade. People should not have to put their lives to death because they do not have the opportunity to defend themselves when the authorities come and take an organ – or desperate people who see the possibility of receiving an organ through the illegal trade as their only way to live for a few more years.
i-0f89b846766ec571-238	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the interpellant and Margareta Cederfelt for their contributions. Let me begin by making it quite clear that the government strongly condemns all forms of involuntary organ transplants, wherever they occur in the world. This, of course, also applies in China. There have been reports that so-called prisoners of conscience, including captured members of the falungong movement, are being forced into organ transplants. In 2014, China decided that all transplant organs must come from voluntary donors as of 1 January 2015. There has been a complete ban on the use of forced transplantation and organ trafficking. From the official Chinese side, it is believed that the decision has been largely implemented and that all organ transplants are now based on voluntary donations. Violations of current rules – including trade in organs – are punishable, according to Chinese law. According to the Chinese authorities, further steps are now being taken to improve the organ donation system. This involves the monitoring of the acquisition of organs, the training of transplant doctors, the improvement of transport and the increased control of hospitals carrying out these activities. Leading international organisations – both the World Health Organisation and independent expert organisations such as The Transplantation Society – have confirmed the efforts of Chinese authorities in recent times. They feel that the system of organ transplants is more in line with international standards. The number of transplant centers in China has also decreased. However, information on whether the decision to ban the use of involuntary organ transplantation is currently being fully implemented throughout the country is inadequate. There is no information available from the Chinese authorities for certain parts of the PRC. A Canadian human rights lawyer, David Matas, has compared the Chinese authorities' official figures for organ transplants with figures he and others have collected from Chinese hospitals. The latter figures show far higher figures than official Chinese statistics speak of. Matas claims that involuntary organ transplants continue to be widespread alongside the official system. Another problem is the lack of independent monitoring of whether prisoners have given their consent to donate organs. This is also hampered by the confidentiality of information on executions in China, which makes it almost impossible to get a correct picture of where transplanted organs come from. Above all, we operate through the European Union. The EU has repeatedly expressed its concern about the lack of information surrounding both the death penalty and statistics on organ transplants in China. This makes it almost impossible to get a true picture of where transplanted organs come from. In the context of the 33rd EU – China Human Rights Dialogue, which took place in 2014, we welcomed China's intention to end organ transplants from prisoners. Data on continuing shortcomings are taken very seriously, and the EU community is closely following developments on this issue.
i-0f89b846766ec571-248	Mr President, I would like to This with the organ trade in China is probably only the tip of an iceberg. This is about one of the most absurd and most spectacular offshoots in terms of the lack of human rights, the perception of humanity and human dignity at all. There are enormous numbers of darkness in this. There are dark numbers among those who go to China and get an organ, such as a kidney or a liver. You don't want to talk about this; you don't want to tell me that's where you got the organ. I will say, with respect to the world's most populous nation, that I have moderate faith in their sincerity in reporting compliance with stricter rules. We have arranged a number of meetings here in Parliament over the years with human rights activists who are involved in the issue of organ trafficking. Jennifer Zeng is one of the people who've been here. Her destiny has become a film, and she has written a book about it. Today, she devotes her life to trying to prevent other people from falling into the same situation. Her fate in connection with this began in a public place, where she gymnastized with a number of hundred other persons. She was in prison for three years, but managed to avoid being subjected to involuntary donation. She lives today in New York and cannot, of course, come back to China. She has good contact with her children, but it is problematic to act when you have relatives in the country. There are other countries that are acting. A statement has been made in the United States. In June, the United States Congress unanimously adopted a resolution condemning organ theft in China. The House of Representatives has adopted it because of constant and credible reports of systematic and state-sponsored organ harvesting, without consent, by prisoners of conscience in the People's Republic of China. One country has gone one step further: Italy. Only three weeks ago, Italy adopted a law criminalising organ trafficking. It places a responsibility on people who are in this chain, who do not only belong in China. It is about people who are prepared to buy an organ, about doctors who are involved in the chain and about people who are involved in promoting this process. The penalties decided in Italy are quite substantial. This is partly about three to twelve years in prison, and partly about fines from half a million to 3 million SEK for those involved in this. The legitimacy goes away, of course, for those doctors who are involved in this and violate this law. This is one way of preventing. The home Member State also places responsibility on those involved in committing crimes in another country. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: would it not be good if Sweden had such a law? It is somewhat similar to the Sex Purchase Act, and in this respect the government is considering criminalising crimes committed in another country.
i-0f89b846766ec571-258	Mr President, I would like to I fully support what Mr Rothenberg has said, but I would also like to add some additional criteria. Like Hans, I am convinced that Sweden alone cannot act, but Sweden, like other countries, can adopt legislation that makes trade more difficult. I also think it is important to monitor and inspect what is happening, both in an international arena and at the various national levels. It is also important to ensure that the range of legal bodies is increased, so that the people who are ill can find bodies that they know have a legal background. I think it is important to provide information to all potential actors in health care, insurance companies and more. What is at issue here is making it difficult and putting away the feet of this illegal market, which certainly does not belong in a civilized world. All people should have the right to their organs and have the right to give them away, if they want to, when they die. But this should not be something that authorities can come and seize.
i-0f89b846766ec571-262	Mr President, I would like to Ordinary Chinese citizens need access to a transplant system based on ethics and good skills and free from corruption. Therefore, the EU has proposed that this could become an area of enhanced cooperation on the basis of the Action Plan on Organ Donation and Transplantation – Strengthened Cooperation between Member States, which inter alia concerns the availability of organs in the EU Member States. I think this is the way forward. The government will continue to address human rights issues in China, both bilaterally and through the EU. We think that is the path on which we should act. Experience shows that it is mutual respect and constructive dialogue that can deliver the best results. That is a line that the government will continue to stick to.
i-0f89b846766ec571-264	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answers. I think it is good that the government continues to act together with the EU. But the government one could also act more clearly as a Swedish government. There is much in China that can be commented on. It concerns freedom of expression, extremely poor democracy, respect for human rights and respect for labour law. Yesterday, in Agenda, it was a report that showed that labour law in this Communist country is completely under the ice. It is not comparable to any country west of the Ural Mountains. Mr President, I would like to The issue of organ trafficking is a little too serious to stop Sweden handing it over to the European Union alone. This should be highlighted, made more known in the world and be vigorously acted upon. David Matas, to whom the Secretary of State referred earlier, has said:"We cannot pick up a victim who stands up for a television camera and says: 'I have been killed for my problems, and my body is cremated', but in general people who question and criticize us have not read our investigation. ..................................................... There are many people who have left this earth and many who are next to enter the organ factories. There's a long and important way to go. I think that Sweden should address this issue and introduce a law that will end this trade and tourism from the Swedish side.
i-0f89b846766ec571-269	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is an active voice in EU cooperation to improve the human rights situation in China. The EU has regularly raised the issue of organ transplants in China, including in the context of the EU and China human rights dialogues and intends to do so in the future. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-0f89b846766ec571-271	Mr President, I would like to Anders Åkesson has asked me if I am prepared to work through instructions in regulatory letters or through other measures to ensure that Swedish power networks choose a technology that means minimum ground penetration in the construction of new electricity transmission in the Swedish core network. Anders Åkesson has also asked if I am prepared to increase my participation in how Svenska Kraftnät performs its important mission with the support of the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Finally, Anders Åkesson has asked me if it is my position that land use and people's living environment should be part of the socio-economic profitability assessment for the construction of main grids for electric power. Initially, I can agree with Anders Åkesson's description of the importance of a robust electricity infrastructure and that the Swedish Enterprise's Swedish power networks here have an important role to play. However, we must realise that the task of planning and developing new core networks is not simple, just like any infrastructure development. The task, in my opinion, requires sensitivity, but at the same time also a clarity on what is technically possible and economically justifiable. As the legislation is designed, it is the Swedish power network that investigates and applies for a permit for an extension of the core networks. The Energy Market Inspectorate prepares and decides on network concession for pipelines within the country's borders. These decisions can be appealed to the Government, which thereby conducts the final examination. It is therefore not appropriate for me to comment on the projects raised by Anders Åkesson, as they may be subject to the government's review. Anders Åkesson addresses several important cross-cutting issues that are addressed in the Swedish National Audit Office's recently published report Prerequisites for a secure power transmission. In response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Government will present in a letter to the Riksdag its assessment of the observations and recommendations presented by the Swedish National Audit Office and the measures that the Government intends to take in response to the report. The Government will submit a letter of writing to the Riksdag no later than 24 March 2017.
i-0f89b846766ec571-274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. Right now in parts of Småland and Blekinge planning is ongoing for a new power line of 400 kilovolts from Ekhyddan in Oskarshamn to Hemsjö in Blekinge. The development is run by the state-owned Swedish power network. Of course, there is an expectation that a state developer will work with modern and resource-efficient solutions that also mean a minimum of intrusion as well as a minimum impact on the individual. In the dialogue on how to build, the developer, state-owned Swedish power grid, has long argued that it is impossible even in parts of the drawing to use other technology than the traditional one with air-hung 400-kilovoltsledning. It is a technology that has been developed and successfully used since the beginning of the last century in our country, but it is a technology that uses vast land areas. In the dialogue with the public, the management of Swedish power networks often refers to the construction of pipelines and the intrusion of people's land and habitats on direct behalf of the Riksdag and the Government. What surprises those who follow and who are committed to this issue is the way in which the dialogue is conducted between the developer and those concerned. Let me give the Prime Minister an example. On 19 October, in a meeting here in Parliament with landowners' organisations and the municipalities concerned, the Director General of the Swedish Power Network expressed their ability to meet them using buried cable in parts of the extension – this to spare settlements, people's habitat and so on. This was something new, and it raised hope of opening up the dialogue. But the surprise was of course very great when Swedish power networks in debate articles, via their press department the same day, on 19 October, dismissed all such openings. The surprise grew further as the Director-General on the following day, on 20 October, confirmed the opinion of his press department. Thus, diametrically opposed views on a conflicted issue are presented over the course of 24 hours by a state enterprise for which Minister Baylan has the ultimate responsibility. In a report, the Swedish National Audit Office has given a number of critical views on how the Swedish parliament and government interact with the company, and also asked if one even controls the Swedish power network. Among other things, it points to a consistent lack of socio-economic analysis of the investment decisions made by Swedish power grids. Based on this and the Swedish National Audit Office's report, a situation arises where primarily responsible ministers are expected to increase their involvement in the Swedish power network. In this connection, I asked three questions to which the Minister has replied: Is the Government prepared to engage more through instructions in regulatory letters? Is the Government prepared to increase its participation with the support of the Swedish National Audit Office's report?
i-0f89b846766ec571-287	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer, but it is not very offensive. It is not the first time – perhaps not the last – that I and the Government discuss the tours around the Swedish power grid. This is hardly news for the Government about how the process and dialogue are managed. Now even the independent Swedish National Audit Office has expressed the same criticism in its report that underlines the need for commitment and clearer governance of the state enterprise.
i-0f89b846766ec571-290	Mr President, I would like to Let me assure Anders Åkesson that I look forward to a continued dialogue. I think it is important that we have it on such pressing issues. In response to the questions that have been asked, I would like to take my point of departure at a different end. Sometimes we tend to forget what the authorities have to do, and in this case what a business has to do. Basically, it is about having a robust infrastructure that delivers electricity to all our domestic and industrial customers. Anders Åkesson will also realise that this cannot be done without some kind of intrusion by people. I'm sure everyone understands that. And I am sure we also share the view that this should be minimised. However, one cannot draw a backbone network where no one lives. You lose the point. How, then, is this to be done? We have a clear order, and it is the same order that applied when Anders Åkesson's party held the Ministry of Energy. It's the same rules, laws and regulations. In these, it is clear that all the points raised by Anders Åkesson should be taken into account: It should be effective and minimise intrusion as far as possible. It should also be cost-effective so that consumers in our country do not needlessly bear the costs of electricity networks. Many people already think that network charges – for everything from the core network to the regional and local networks – cost a great deal. Under the current regulatory framework, the government will only be given a role and task in a case when any excesses of proposed concessions or draws come in. Anders Åkesson knows this very well. This arrangement was in force under the previous government and the same order is now in force. Anders Åkesson is fully aware that I, as a minister of state, cannot speak on individual matters and thus precede a process that is laid down in the law adopted by the Swedish Parliament and supported by the Center Party. That's it. For I have not seen any motion from the Center Party or any joint proposal from the bourgeois alliance for a change in the system. I fully understand Anders Åkesson and think that he is doing his job as a Member of Parliament from Småland very well as he raises the concerns and questions that exist. I, too, have met this through dialogue with the organisations involved and through dialogue with individual landowners. What do we have to do? As Anders Åkesson says, there are a large number of questions and views that have come up regarding the model we have for managing the business. The Government will present its views as well as its proposals for measures in a letter to the Riksdag after having prepared this according to all the rules of art and as should be done according to the parliamentary order and constitution we have. Anders Åkesson knows all this very well, and to say otherwise is not really honest. He understands that I cannot precede a process laid down by law and regulations. Therefore, this becomes just a game for the gallery.
i-0f89b846766ec571-298	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I need to inform Minister Baylan that laws can be initiated from both the Riksdag and the Government. The government can present a bill. And yes, the Government, me and several center parties have on several occasions exercised about another system of things in order to reduce conflicts in the land invasions that are obviously necessary to build a modern social infrastructure, whether it be electricity grids, roads or railways. It is not good enough in 2016 to allow government agencies and agencies to behave in such a way as I have just described. Within the space of 24 hours, diametrically different opinions were announced about how a process should be conducted, how the intrusion should be minimised and how people's living environment – whether in Småland, Blekinge or elsewhere – should be made sense. The Center Party and several other parties have, together with the government, concluded an energy agreement. It's good. Based on this, the Government probably assumes that more and smarter lines and electricity grids can be built that are capable of managing a very complex energy situation. This is another reason to ensure that the authority or the business that will carry out this does its work in a way that does not cause conflict in the areas. I have explained to the Government how the communication of the Swedish power network with the municipalities and individuals concerned has looked at the current issue, and I wonder how he reacts in principle and without going into the individual case, which I know he cannot. What conclusions does he draw from this? In its interpellation response, the Government refers to the fact that the Government will not return until the end of March next year with its response to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. Will the Government remain passive until then, or will he act in any way? I think it is important that we act.
i-0f89b846766ec571-304	Mr President, I would like to About the last, we are in complete agreement, Anders Åkesson. It is important to act. After the more than two years I've had the chance to be Minister of Energy, I don't think anyone would think of calling me passive. On the contrary, there is not a single area in the energy sector where we have not been in. For example, we have had political negotiations with good results, as Anders Åkesson highlighted. These negotiations were very constructive. The cooperation between the government's two parties and the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Moderates was very good. We had an energy policy agreement that is broader than ever before, and it is in many ways a force for our country. This, of course, also includes issues of strengthening electricity transmission in our country and in our neighbouring countries. We believe that this is a good road which not only makes our electricity system even more robust, but also provides competitive prices and does so in an efficient and environmentally and climate-friendly way. In the area by area, we have either concluded political agreements or put forward proposals in Parliament. Therefore, I am surprised when I hear Anders Åkesson say that this would be an expression of passivity. I would even dare to say that in energy policy little has happened in decades. I have full understanding of the landowners and the owners who feel frustrated, because it is not easy to find out that possibly an 8 0 meter wide street will be drawn through your land and that there will be 400-kilovoltsledninger with all that that means. At the same time, I have had a good dialogue with landowners and organisations and have understood that everyone realises that these lines must be drawn somewhere. One can always discuss which technology to use and how mature it is, whether it works and so on. This is one of the issues that the expert authorities and experts at the Swedish Energy Market Authority and the Swedish power network have to deal with. That's how it works. It is not we in the Swedish parliament or in the government who decide which technology to use. I don't think either of us would. In this context, I would also like to point out that we will not only react but will return to Parliament with a full letter on the basis of the Swedish National Audit Office's report. We will both respond to some of the points that have been made and propose measures to make the system even more effective. Mr President, I would like to This matter is very likely to be dealt with by the government, given the feelings it arouses. Therefore, it would be foolish and perhaps not entirely constitutionally correct if I were to judge here in Parliament from the various proposals of the Swedish power grid and its response or how the end result should be. I do not think that Anders Åkesson wants such a system where a minister short-circuits a system that is quite complicated from the beginning and that arouses many emotions. No, I think it would be rather irresponsible. This is how I really think it would be to deliver a Christmas present that no one would think would be good.
i-0f89b846766ec571-313	Mr President, I would like to Like the Government, I am passionate about achieving a better society. The fact that people are passionate about this sometimes takes the form of us concluding agreements in order to achieve a better society. The energy agreement was one of those. But I am extremely committed, not to say upset, to the Government, when representatives of some of the state then behave or behave in such a way as I refer to. It is in fact in danger of sabotaging the good intentions behind, for example, the energy agreement. The seriousness of this must be recognised by the Government. Now this is a typical case, but this is being built right everywhere in our country. When the Government itself visited the area, he has expressed an understanding of the use of modern and low-carbon technology. In what way has the understanding from the Government been expressed in concrete instructions to the Swedish power grid? This understanding was expressed by the Government long before the Swedish National Audit Office submitted its report. Has it been expressed in a regulatory letter or some other kind of instructions to the Swedish power grid? Such types of instructions have reason for the Government to give frequently and repeatedly without in any way applying ministerial rule. That's what I'm assuming. In that case, the historical events to which the Government can very easily refer are historical events. I would like to give you a good Christmas greeting now in my closing address. Thank you for a discussion that we also think will continue!
i-0f89b846766ec571-317	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure of it. I look forward to that discussion, not least because I think that in many ways it is and has been a rather constructive discussion between the government and the parties that have entered into the energy settlement, not least the Center Party. It has tried to find constructive solutions. Of course we'll follow up on this. I also believe that it is important – and it is a responsibility of every government – to gradually see how we can streamline our systems and how we can ensure that our citizens and our industries are provided with the energy they need in a way that minimises intrusion. It is also part of the instruction. It is part of the laws and regulations we have in this country. Different interests always stand against each other. If you now have views on the Swedish power grid or even views on the processing and construction of the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate, you as a citizen always have the opportunity to contact the government. In this case, of course, the government will deal with this in accordance with laws and regulations. That is also exactly the order that we have for this project. It's not a different order. Anders Åkesson asks: Why not give instructions? But that kind of instruction exists. It is these different interests that should be set against each other in order to find a good balance. Then it's not as simple as Anders Åkesson sounds suggestive, that it's just to say This technology has been tried in another project, and it has turned out that there are a lot of challenges. It's been postponed time and again. It's not as simple as it sounds. Had it been that simple, I'm pretty sure it'd already been done. But as I said, the discussion will continue. I have full respect for that. I can wish Anders Åkesson a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I would also like to wish the President of Parliament a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-0f89b846766ec571-322	Mr President, I would like to Mr Linde has asked me whether I intend to act in order for the government not to promote the export of armaments to the Philippines and whether I intend to take the initiative to include representatives of human rights organisations in trade delegations to the Philippines. We are all concerned about recent developments in the Philippines. Sweden is working together with the other EU countries to follow what is happening. We act both locally and in international forums to promote democracy and human rights. The principles of the rule of law and human rights must be respected. On 8 November this year, the Swedish Embassy was reopened in the Philippines. Sweden has missions in 93 counties. The Philippines, with its 100 million inhabitants, until then was by far the largest country where Sweden lacked diplomatic representation. Through our diplomatic presence, we can continue to expand our contacts and monitor developments in various areas, such as the economy, trade, politics and human rights. At the same time, we can support Swedish companies in the Filipino market. An increased Swedish presence on the important Asian markets is an important element of the government's export strategy, which ultimately aims to strengthen our economic growth and create new jobs in Sweden. The Philippines has had a favourable economic development in recent years. At the same time, the country faces important challenges linked to rapid urbanisation, regional imbalances, social and economic gaps and vulnerability to natural disasters. Many Swedish companies possess the knowledge and skills needed to meet many of these challenges. There is therefore a common interest in deepening relations, including trade, between our two countries. Swedish industry has shown great interest in the Philippine market. A business seminar on the Philippines gathered 100 company representatives in August. At the opening of the Embassy in November, some seventy people attended, representing nearly 30 companies and organisations. There were representatives of completely different business sectors, such as energy, traffic management, smart cities, public transport, ports, airports, education, the packaging industry and telecoms and call centres. We have also highlighted health and elderly care, medical technology and medicines. Also involved were representatives of Swedish authorities and organisations, including the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency and the trade union Kommunal, which for many years has been working to strengthen Filipino trade union movement with support from Olof Palme International Center. This meant that there were representatives of an organisation working on human rights in this delegation. The composition of the trade delegation varies and is determined in dialogue for each trip. The government did not conduct any talks on arms exports in connection with Minister Damberg's trip to the Philippines. On the other hand, talks were held about Saab's offer in civil aviation, which is highly topical for the Philippines, where the need for infrastructure is enormous. Neither the Swedish Government, the Ministry of Defence nor our defence authorities currently have any defence-related cooperation with the Philippines. Should exports from Sweden be considered, the Swedish defence industry – as Hans Linde is well aware – must turn to the Inspection for Strategic Products, which examines the issue in accordance with the strict regulations that Sweden has. In the spring, the government will submit a proposal for stricter rules for the export of armaments in line with the proposal put forward by the Armaments Export Review Committee in its 2015 report:72. The importance that Sweden attaches to respect for human rights is well known. Questions about MRs are regularly raised during official visits if the situation in the country so requires. During the visit to the Philippines, MRs were discussed in several contexts. In particular, talks were held with the Chairman of the Philippine Human Rights Commission and with the political opposition. In this context, I would also like to highlight the national action plan on entrepreneurship and human rights drawn up by the government. The Government's explicit expectation is that Swedish companies operating in Sweden or abroad will respect MR in all their operations. Now that we have a permanent diplomatic presence, we can closely monitor developments on the ground. There are advanced plans to place a police liaison officer at the embassy. An important task is to prosecute so-called ordered sexual abuse, where the victim is located in the Philippines and the clients in Sweden or another EU country. Being in place also gives us increased opportunities to conduct a direct dialogue on human rights. I therefore believe that Mr Linde's questions have been answered.
i-0f89b846766ec571-332	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Minister for Trade Ann Linde for her reply to my interpellation. That was a detailed answer to my question, but I must note that Ann Linde did not at all answer the central question in my interpellation. My question was why the government has chosen to actively promote the export of armaments to an increasingly authoritarian government in the Philippines. I should like to start by being very clear on a few points. I have also not heard anyone either or outside the Riksdag who has criticised the fact that Sweden has now opened an embassy in Manila. On the contrary, many of us, including myself, thought it was a wrong decision by the former bourgeois government to phase out Sweden's presence in the country. Nor have I heard anyone who has advocated a trade boycott against the Philippines or who is opposed to Sweden sending trade delegations to the country. On the other hand, there are quite a few of us who are concerned that the so-called feminist government that Ann Linde represents is so clearly using its embassy and trade policy to support and promote Swedish arms exports to the Philippines. If you look at the past autumn, there are many examples of how Ann Linde's government has chosen to actively support in particular Saab's attempts to sell war material to the Philippines. On 7 November, Minister Mikael Damberg opened the Swedish Embassy in Manila. He brought with him a large delegation of representatives from industry, among others. We from the Left Party requested the list of participants in the delegations from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I note that there are three high representatives of the armaments manufacturer Saab. The list does not include a single representative of civil society. We know that Saab has been trying to sell JAS Gripen aircraft to the Philippines since 1999. Today, coastal surveillance systems, submarines and a wide range of other weapons systems are being marketed in the country. The same week that Sweden opened its Embassy in Manila, Saab opened a sales office in the city, even in the same neighborhood as the Swedish Embassy. Ann Linde says that there were no talks about Swedish arms exports in connection with Minister Damberg's trip to the Philippines. It is, of course, impossible for me to control or question. What I do know, however, is that the newly appointed Swedish ambassador in the Philippines Harald Fries in an interview with Manila Times told me that the armaments manufacturer Saab sought business partnerships in the Philippines and that Saab could offer marine surveillance equipment and submarines to the country. The title of the article where the Swedish ambassador spoke was: Swedish company wants to provide the Philippines with military equipment. I assume that a Swedish ambassador, who is a representative of the Swedish Government, will speak on the basis of the mandate given to him by the Swedish Government. It is true, as Ann Linde says, that we in Sweden have a system where it is an authority, ISP, that decides whether Swedish companies should be allowed to sell weapons or not. It is not the government that decides on individual business. I am well aware of that. On the other hand, it is the government that is responsible for implementing the parliamentary decision that we made in this House in 2011 that the government should come back with new strengthened rules for arms exports to non-democratic states. I note that it has been almost six years since the parliamentary decision and that we have still not received any tightening up or any government bill at Parliament's table. It is also the government itself – it is important to emphasise, and the central part of the interpellation – that decides which exports you want to promote and to which countries. No one has forced the government to take Saab with it in its delegation to the Philippines but to leave organizations like Amnesty or Svenska Freds at home. Nor has anyone forced the government's envoy in Manila to promote the export of submarines and surveillance equipment in the Philippine media. That responsibility rests with the government. Therefore, I would like to hear from Ann Linde: Why does your government choose to actively support Swedish arms exports to the Philippines?
i-0f89b846766ec571-346	Mr President, I would like to The government is concerned about the situation in the Philippines and is following developments closely. By being represented on the ground, we have the opportunity to follow developments even better and monitor what is happening. It will also be easier to conduct a dialogue and reach out with Swedish messages. The Philippines has a rapidly growing economy with great potential. At the same time, the country faces major challenges linked to rapid urbanisation, major economic and social gaps and exposure to natural disasters. Many Swedish companies possess knowledge and competence to meet these challenges. We have a mutual need to develop our economic relations. During the Team Sweden trip carried out in connection with the opening of the Swedish Embassy there were no talks about defence equipment. Saab participated in the trip because they have a large proportion of civil products, not least for port and air traffic control. These are products that are important for a country like the Philippines that consists of over 7 000 islands. With reference to the UN Charter, I can add that all countries have the right to defend themselves and consequently have the right to their own defence. I repeat that if this should be the case, the Swedish defence industry, of which Hans Linde is well aware, must turn to the ISP, which examines the issue in accordance with the strict regulations that Sweden has. In principle, the government sees no obstacles to promoting exports of defence equipment. That also applies to the Philippines. If it then comes to concrete business, it is the ISP that makes decisions. The Swedish delegation, led by Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg, represented a wide range of sectors. Specific promotion of defence equipment exports was never considered. In addition, it is correct that Ambassador Fries participated in the opening of Saab's new office in Manila. Sweden's foreign administration regularly strives to help Swedish companies operating abroad by attending and actively participating in the opening of new offices and factories, for example during signing of MOUs, memorandum of understanding, launch of new products, book releases or film premieres.
i-0f89b846766ec571-352	Mr President, I would like to Now Minister of Trade Ann Linde says that the government has no fundamental obstacles to promoting arms exports to the Philippines. I now realise, having both written an interpellation and put a direct question to the Minister for Trade, that it may be about as long as we come to the debate. The government can't get any clearer than that. I must say, however, that I see very clear fundamental obstacles to the Swedish government, a feminist government, promoting arms exports to a government such as the one we are seeing today in the Philippines. We have seen for a long number of years how the Philippines had great challenges with regard to extrajudicial executions, and there have been armed conflicts. The human rights and democracy situation has clearly worsened since June when Rodrigo Duterte took office as President of the country. After Mr Duterte had been in power for 100 days, Amnesty released a report stating that a wave of illegal killings resulted in more than 3 000 deaths and that Mr Dutertes's policy had only broken down all previous human rights progress in 100 days. Amnesty International stated that Dutertes's presidency was characterised by government-sponsored violence on a shocking scale. Amnesty has noted that the government in the Philippines today has created a climate in which anyone can kill and anyone can be killed as long as it happens under rhetoric about war on drugs and drugs. The president has publicly encouraged civilians to kill drug addicts. He has also pointed out that he will never prosecute police officers carrying out extrajudicial executions. We are now discussing in Parliament in the Philippines the reintroduction of the death penalty. Furthermore, Duterte has said that he wants to see daily executions if the death penalty is reintroduced. The situation in the Philippines has been deemed to be so serious that the United States has taken a fundamental decision to suspend certain forms of arms exports to the country. Obviously, the Swedish feminist government does not really see the same problem. There are no fundamental obstacles to the government actively promoting Swedish arms exports through delegations and embassy. As I said, Ann Linde and her government are not making decisions on which Swedish arms deals should be approved or not. But you have the responsibility and the power to decide which business you want to promote or not. The decisions that the government makes about where to send its trade delegations, who to include and what products to promote also have consequences. This is absolutely crucial if Swedish arms exports are to be carried out or not. Recently, Expressen interviewed the head of the market and sales of JAS Gripen at Saab, a man named Richard Smith. When asked about the Philippines, he said, "It's an interesting challenge." We can all see that things are happening politically in the country, and we do not really know where this ends. If we feel that there is no support for us to sell planes to the Philippines, we will slow down our activity there. ..................................................... What is Saab saying? Well, without the direct support of Ann Linde's government, they will not continue with their plans to try to sell JAS Gripen aircraft and other armaments equipment to the Philippines. This eventually means that the ball lies with Ann Linde and her government. That's where the responsibility lies. Richard Smith is also asked how he feels about the support from the Swedish government when Saab will sell JAS Gripen around the world. He answers: The support from the Swedish government is very good.
i-0f89b846766ec571-363	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a defence that surely leads to an interest in a defence industry that can deliver defence technology and world-class defence systems. Armaments exports play an important role in maintaining and developing this capability. The government therefore has a strong interest in promoting the export efforts of the defence industry within the framework of existing legislation and regulations. In this way we also promote Swedish defence and Swedish security. A national defence industry means that we strengthen our national defence capabilities. The ability to fight and underwater capability are clear examples of areas of vital importance for Sweden's defence. This was noted by more than 70 per cent of the Riksdag in the 2015 Decision on Defence Policy. The government is convinced that international exchange and trade contribute to a positive development in the world. Swedish exports are a cornerstone of our economy that creates growth and jobs and secures our well-being. Trade builds bridges between countries, cultures and people. It is therefore also natural for us to engage in dialogue with countries with which we deal, even in matters where we have different views. The authority that decides on individual export authorisations is, as both I and Mr Linde have said several times, the ISP. The ISP follows the strict guidelines laid down by the Government and approved by the Riksdag. It would be directly wrong for me to try to influence ISP's decision. To try politically to influence an authority's decisions in individual cases would be a violation of the Swedish constitution. ISP independently makes its decisions based on an overall assessment, where MR conditions form an important part of the basis for decision-making. The mission's MR reporting forms part of the ISP assessment basis. After all, the Philippines is a relatively stable democracy with a business-friendly climate. As in many other countries, crime and drug trafficking are some of the biggest problems, but at the same time the principles of the rule of law must be respected for effective law enforcement. The current political situation can also affect the business environment and the willingness to invest. Therefore, the presence of Swedish companies can be a positive force for change. I fully share Mr Linde's concern about what is happening in the area of human rights. It is now approaching between 4,000 and 5,000 deaths in the Dutertes anti-drug campaign. When Sweden opens an embassy in Manila, its reporting, which also includes human rights issues, becomes an important task. It is important for us, together with other EU countries, to follow what is happening and to put forward our positions. Our view of human rights and the rule of law is well known. Sweden acts both locally and in international forums to promote democracy and human rights. Our presence on site through the Embassy in Manila increases our opportunities to operate.
i-0f89b846766ec571-369	Mr President, I would like to I find it a little sad and also a little distressing that Ann Linde chooses to use the debate to refer to authorities and parliamentary decisions instead of taking responsibility for the decisions that the government itself has actually made. It is the government that decides who is to be part of the government delegation to the Philippines, and I assume that it is also the government that has commissioned the ambassador in Manila to actively promote, support and promote Swedish arms exports to the Philippines. I would have liked the government to be able to take responsibility for its decisions in this area. No, I do not believe that Sweden has an interest in an increasingly authoritarian Dute rte gaining access to Swedish submarines. And no, I do not think it promotes democracy in the Philippines that we are selling JAS Gripen aircraft to a regime that has killed as many as perhaps 5 000 people just since last summer. This shows the problems with Swedish arms exports and how the government has chosen to act. It is not possible to be a vote for democracy and human rights with credibility while trying to sell arms to authoritarian regimes. We see time and again how Swedish arms exports affect Swedish foreign policy and how to tone down human rights violations in order to have an opportunity to sell Swedish weapons. I do not think it is a coincidence that both Ann Linde's government and her predecessors have had difficulty calling Saudi Arabia a dictatorship when it is a country that is one of the main buyers of Swedish weapons. Nor do I think it is a coincidence that Ann Linde is now standing here saying that the Philippines is a stable democracy, while as many as perhaps 5 000 extrajudicial executions have been carried out just since the summer. As I said earlier, Saab itself says that they feel that the support is incredibly good from the government when they try to sell weapons in the Philippines. The question is whether Philippine democracy activists and human rights defenders feel the same support from Sweden today. I'm afraid I doubt it.
i-0f89b846766ec571-375	Mr President, I would like to The delegation to the Philippines was broad and included representatives of Swedish authorities and organisations that I mentioned: both MSB and the trade union Kommunal. They have worked for many years to strengthen Filipino trade union movement with support from Olof Palme International Center. I have personally been in contact with many of my comrades in the Philippines, all of whom without exception support the reopening of the Swedish Embassy. They are in close contact with us, and they think that trade is extremely important. Some seventy persons representing nearly 30 organisations and companies participated in the opening of the embassy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs conducts an ongoing dialogue with representatives of Swedish civil society and, through the embassies, local civil society. The delegation had a representative of an organisation working on human rights, namely trade union rights. The composition of the trade delegation varies and is determined in dialogue for each trip. It is a well-functioning way of working. As part of the export strategy and the drive to increase trade with the new emerging markets in Asia, Africa and Latin America, the government has developed a new and more ambitious sustainable enterprise policy. Sweden has a long tradition of working for human rights. Our view of the human rights and the rule of law is well known. That is precisely what enables us to raise democracy and human rights issues also with those countries that do not share our fundamental values. I would also like to remind Mr Linde that the export strategy, which has passed the Riksdag, received broad support. It identified the Philippines as one of the 26 priority markets. This was developed in parallel with a national action plan on entrepreneurship and human rights. It was presented to Parliament as a letter. These two strategies are both as important and governing for the business as I am responsible for.
