i-6884d88a2c41040a-4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Rickard Nordin has asked me about Sweden's position in the negotiation of a new test method for the emissions of cars and how I look at the exhaust emissions requirements in the US compared to those in the EU. My focus has been that the changes in the exhaust gas requirements will enter into force as soon as possible and that we will then get as sharp a requirement as possible. In the answers to parliamentary questions 2015/ 16:435 and 2015/ 16:436 this parliamentary year, I have explained in detail the government's line and made it clear that Sweden has been one of the EU countries that strongly pushed for final demands at the same strict level as the Commission wanted to see. On the last issue, Rickard Nordin claims that exhaust gas requirements are much tougher in the US than in the EU. The requirements in the US and in the EU are equivalent, but there are differences in how they are applied. A key factor in the development of new testing methods in the EU to measure emissions in real driving has been the development of a more harmonised system applied in both the US and the EU.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-7	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has been one of the EU countries that has most strongly pushed for final demands at the same strict level that the Commission has wanted to see," says the Minister. In fact, I can't get this together for my life with anyone other than the Minister. Just before Christmas, Expressen came with a revelation. That was our previous debate on the subject; hence this debate. It emerged that Sweden's position has not only been to allow more emissions than those proposed by the Commission, but also to postpone its entry into force. How is it connected with implementing things as quickly as possible and as closely as possible to the Commission's proposal, to press for the same strict requirements as the Commission? Sweden's position according to Expressen, which has also been confirmed by the Minister's officials, was to ensure that the requirements come into force even later than the Commission has proposed. This was originally something that should have been implemented in 2014. The EU made decisions already in 2007. Now the Minister chooses an even later entry into force. For readers of the newspaper Ny Teknik, there is an excellent account of what can be done to achieve the requirements. There are already technologies in place to ensure that NOx emissions are not as high as they are now. But it costs money. It costs about 15 000 SEK, 11 000 – 16 000 SEK depending on the engine, but the technology exists and it of course affects the price of the car and thus also new car sales. In our previous interpellation debate, the Minister for the Environment said that they have leaned against the Swedish Transport Agency's investigations. The Presidents have spoken in New Teknik about the negotiations. They say they got instructions from the Government Office. They did not vote with Holland– Holland had the strongest and strictest demands – because Sweden has a strong car industry. They say nothing about faster entry into force or tougher demands. They say that the reason why Sweden set requirements that make it possible to release more and with a postponement is a strong car industry. Can the Minister explain why Sweden did not push for tougher demands? The Commission made tougher demands. Holland made tougher demands. Other countries made tougher demands. Sweden is identified by environmental organisations in Europe as the country with the lowest standards. How can the demands made by other countries and considered realistic not be reasonable according to Sweden's position? How can this be the same as having been one of the EU countries that has pushed most strongly towards final requirements at the same strict level as the Commission wanted to see? How does that fit in with reality?
i-6884d88a2c41040a-13	Mr President, I would like to The debate is not new. We have had a number of debates, and I have also answered a number of written questions, and I hope that I can clarify and clarify once more in this House that Sweden has definitely been one of the countries that has toughest pushed for a new driving cycle in Europe, as more and more news also in Swedish media suggests is necessary. I would like to hear from the Centre Party's view on whether it is prepared to postpone the package that is b closed in the EU for its entry into force in September 2017. I'll try to be a little educational. Entry into force is about two steps. One is to begin the process, step one, and the other is step two. I do not rule out that we will come to a step three later, that is to say even tougher demands. This discussion has not yet been addressed in the EU. What has been up for discussion has been to start with a driving cycle that better reflects real driving. We know from Swedish tests that the Tran sports board has made it clear that cars that drive in Sweden have higher emissions than those included in the test protocols from the approval of those car models. Sweden has long wanted to do something about this. I have not at all tried to take credit for the fact that this government has taken further stronger steps than previous Swedish governments have done. Rather, it has been the opposite. The government has pursued a line that has been in good tradition with previous Swedish governments' stance on the issues, i.e. pushing for tougher and clearer rules on the environmental side of the car industry. But it should also be about requirements that can be implemented so that there is a change in reality – hence there are the two steps. It is step one that does not go as far, starting already in September 2017, to get the system going and make it clear to the car industry, car consumers and society that steps are being taken in that direction. Discrepancies are reduced between the emission values present in the test cycle and the actual emission values. Step two is about how close the emission requirements can come to each other. It is quite right that Sweden was one of the few countries that supported the level of the Commission. On the other hand, the Swedish Transport Agency assessed that the level could not be implemented at the exact same time but only one year later. In the negotiations of the Technical Expert Committee there was no agreement on the levels. It was not the conformity factor of 1.2 but a higher factor. There was a bad outcome in the hearing. The balance that has to be done is if it had been better not to get a result in that negotiation but instead still claim 1.2 – although much later than the experts in Sweden assess. It wasn't possible at that time. We landed, just as we have been in the discussions before, on a conformity factor of 1.5. Sweden pushed for it to be 1, 2. If the Swedish Transport Agency in newspapers gives an interpretation of the instruction that says that the motive would be a strong car industry, I can definitely say that the source is not the instructing department, my Ministry of Environment and Energy. That is not the justification for the instruction given by my department. The question lies with Mr Rickard Nordin. Do you think that the package should be delayed, with the result that there will continue to be high emissions higher than the test values in the EU?
i-6884d88a2c41040a-20	Mr President, I would like to No, of course I don't think the hearing should be delayed. There is also plenty of time to continue the negotiation. It is not that the decision is made. In two weeks' time, Parliament will vote. There are discussions there that there is plenty of time to improve the proposals. There's technology. That is where the main flaw lies in the minister's argumentation. The Minister says it's about demands that can be implemented. But the technology already exists. These are demands that should have been introduced by 2014, but the car industry has been working to push them forward. The requirements are most reasonable, and the technology exists. It's a cost issue. That is why we have chosen to put the problem in front of us. This is rather a problem, I think, because the technology and legislation already in place are not being applied. This means that those who have changed, who have actually adapted to the new requirements, will be disadvantaged. I find that sad, because it does not rhyme at all with incentives for green conversion. I think it is worth giving the citizens of Europe and the small part of the car industry that has already changed and is at the forefront a little more time for negotiations to get to this incredibly much better. I'm sure it can be done. I am still not convinced that Sweden's position was as legitimate as the Minister says. The paper that Expressen took note of shows that Sweden had both significantly higher conformity factors and significantly later entry into force than the Commission had on a proposal from the beginning. Therefore, I think it is worth spending a few extra months on getting this in place in a much better way. But there are more requirements and test cycles that are interesting. This weekend SVT had a news that cars' CO2 emissions also differ significantly from the test values. This is the basis for such things as exemption from vehicle tax on environmental cars. The difference has also increased over the years. The tests don't reflect reality. It is good that there will be new tests in place in 2017 – hopefully also in September; it is in the same package and within the same time frame – because you can now switch off the battery charge, make the cars easier by picking out the rear seat, using special tires and special asphalt, having maximum tailwind and so on. However, the new test method will be carried out in less than two years' time – at best. Will the Minister for the Environment act in any way before then to ensure that the real values reflect what tax legislation and other things are trying to take into account? Or will the Minister let it roll on, as has been done with these things, and allow these cars to still emit more exhaust emissions than the legislation allows? How does the Minister view that part of both nitrogen oxide and carbon dioxide? And what information can she give to the Swedish car industry here in Sweden about how we will act to enforce the laws and regulations that we have established from the beginning?
i-6884d88a2c41040a-28	Mr President, I would like to Mr Nordin says that these are EU rules that were established already in 2014 and should be applied. The problem is that decisions are needed in the Committee of Experts to interpret and apply the rules as they are now said to exist. If the rules were already in place, the case of the discrepancy in emissions would be much simpler. In Sweden, it is pure authority to act when the requirements are not met. There will then be various consequences – the withdrawal of cars, the need to address the problems and so on. It is because we lack that opportunity in Europe right now that we need to make decisions and get those decisions in place. I am the first to admit that when there are 28 Member States, the same assessment is not always made. Even in a committee of experts, the assessment of what is possible is not the same when there are 28 Member States that are sitting there with one or perhaps several authorities that make a joint assessment. Of course, it would have been good if all countries in the EU had done the same expert assessment as Sweden. Then there would have been additional sharp demands. Nevertheless, let me remind you – it may be good for the wider debate – that just getting these driving cycles, which tighten up the requirements and reflect real driving, is in itself an incredibly important step towards reducing emissions from cars and improving air quality in our cities. I think it would make sense to ensure that this process starts to deliver as early as September 2017 and is not further postponed. One can make the assessment that I hear the honourable Member make that if this is discussed for a few more months, we will have much more stringent rules. No one would be happier than me if that were the case. Unfortunately, I do not share that assessment. I share the view that the car industry in Europe will be much easier to take advantage of such a situation to lay down rules that it finds very difficult in the future. In fact, that concern is much greater, Mr President, than the concern that Sweden could have acted much tougher and thus come up with a decision in the EU that was tougher is what we have got. I note that Holland, the only country that remained in its assessments and thus had a tougher assessment, was alone and did not get a decision that was tougher. Sweden was involved in doing the job to ensure that the decisions come. This will mean new driving cycles, which I believe and know are important for air quality if nothing else. So I do not share the honourable Member's view that a few more months of talks would automatically bring out tougher demands in the EU. I think it is much more dangerous to allow that time to go to the car industry to lobby against rules as it has been clear that they find it difficult. Should we be friends with better air in Swedish cities and reduced emissions from cars in Europe as soon as possible and also get a system that harmonises better with the US system – not so that the exhaust requirements become radically different but so that the application becomes clearer – we will go to the system that is now decided in the EU. But if a further discussion were to lead to tougher demands, it is hardly Sweden that would cry out of that battle. On the contrary, we have been the country that has pushed the most for us to get tougher demands.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-38	Mr President, I would like to Now the Minister himself said that Holland has run a much tougher line than Sweden, so that Sweden has driven the toughest line is hardly a truth to be reckoned with. Nor is it if the information provided by the Commission is compared with the negotiating positions, at least those which have been in the media. The Minister is happy to tell you what Sweden's negotiating position was if it does not correspond with data and documents. Back to CO2 emissions from cars. Even there, the test cycles differ quite considerably from reality. Will the Minister do anything before the new testing methods are in place? The current ones are quite different from what is in the instruction manual for a car and from reality, and they form the basis for such things as tax rules and bonus schemes. Is there something that the Minister will do something about before new test rules are in place, or will this be allowed to roll on until September 2017, as in the case of nitrogen oxide? During that time it is released considerably more than intended and reasonably according to Swedish legislation.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-40	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Nordin for another debate on this urgent matter. I can assure the honourable Member that the Government is keen to ensure that when you receive information on the Swedish market, such as such important information as environmental information on products such as cars, that information should be accurate. One should be able to trust it. The consumer and the company ordering environmental profile transport, but also the authorities and government, should be able to rely on these data so that one can also plan best for Sweden to take steps towards a fossil-free transport sector, where we simply make ourselves independent of fossil fuels and reduce nitrogen dioxide emissions in our cities. One lesson that I think it is extremely important to see – and I believe that even previous ministers can reasonably see in the rear-view mirror – is that when, as the Alliance Government did, environmental subsidies such as the five-year reduction in vehicle tax on a segment of cars are built up, it is connected with those cars. It is reasonable – you get a premium, and you know that it lasts over time. But five years in this sector is quite a long time. Now there is information that cars emit much more. These are not new tasks. They are in line with the data we have had on the nitrogen dioxide side. This makes it clear in the rear-view mirror that it is a problem that we stand with the ongoing subsidies that the Alliance Government gave to these environmental cars and which are also in this year's budgets. It can definitely stick in your eyes. I think we should take that lesson with us when we look at and ensure that with tax incentives and other benefits we really reward technological development. I see that technological development is increasingly moving towards electric power, which is extremely good from the air environment point of view but also from the climate point of view. However, the fact that the fuels made from a life cycle perspective do not lead to fossil emissions is also extremely important.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-44	Mr President, I would like to Désirée Pethrus has asked me whether I am going to take any initiatives to establish a continuous and community-reported survey of honour-related crime and what initiatives I am prepared to take to promote a more effective fight against honour-related crimes, similar to those conducted in the context of Forced Marriage Unit in the United Kingdom. The government takes the work against honour-related violence and oppression, including forced and child marriages, very seriously. In addition to coercion, it is also punishable today to induce a person to enter into a marriage or a marriagelike relationship by taking advantage of the person's vulnerable situation, so - called marital coercion. There's work going on to criminalize the conspiracy of marriage. As a result, the area of punishment will cover all pre-marital requirements. In addition, new civil law has been introduced to strengthen protection against forced and child marriages. For example, it is no longer possible for persons under the age of 18 to marry under Swedish law. However, international aspects mean that crime can be difficult to investigate. However, the difficulties are not due to the Swedish regulations, which provide our criminal investigation authorities with good tools to be able to request assistance from abroad. On the other hand, it may be difficult to get such help for a number of reasons. For example, neither Iraq nor Syria has control over their entire territory. Our foreign authorities have a general obligation to provide individual Swedes with assistance and assistance if necessary. In these cases, the foreign authorities act primarily as an intermediary link between the persons concerned and the authorities of the Swedish municipality of residence. However, the possibility of assisting vulnerable persons abroad is often limited. It is therefore very important to prevent, first and foremost, children and young people who are at risk of forced or child marriage abroad from being forced or deceived to leave Sweden. In this endeavour, the Social Services have an important mission, clear responsibility and opportunities to provide support and assistance to those exposed to honour-related violence and repression, mainly through the Social Services Act and the Act with special provisions on the care of young people. In addition to legislation, there is, of course, a need for cooperation between authorities and action at several levels to prevent honour-related violence and repression. Such work is also ongoing. The focus is on skills-enhancing actions and measures to strengthen the efforts of the authorities. The County Administrative Boards have a key role to play in this work. Since 2003, they have supported the coordination of counties to combat honour-related violence and repression. In 2016, they shall prioritise actions that promote the use of preventive measures against such violence and repression, including forced and child marriages. Since 2005, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland has a special national mission to carry out efforts against honour-related violence and repression, which has also come to include efforts against young people getting married against their will. The mission has contributed to a long-term and strategic effort to combat honour-related violence and repression, to an analysis of development needs and to the development of cooperation between authorities and between agencies and non-profit organisations. Since 2013, the County Administrative Board has also been responsible for a national competence team to which professionals and non-profit organisations can turn for guidance in individual cases. Special efforts are also made by the police. The new police organisation creates the conditions for better meeting the specific demands of the work against honour-related violence and oppression. This includes training police officers across the country and implementing methodological development to increase the ability to detect and clear honour-related violence and repression. The Police Authority is now tasked with reporting by May 2016 how it works with transnational cases where there is suspicion of honor-related violence and oppression, marriage against its own will or child marriage. The report must show, among other things, how many cases of this kind the authority handles, what procedures exist in this area and to what extent there is cooperation with Interpol, the International Public Prosecutor's Chambers, the Foreign Department, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the L Thansstyrelsen in Östergötland's county. The police authority shall also assess whether there is a need for further action in this area and, if so, provide an account of those measures. It is positive that the Länsstyrelsen in Kronoberg County has initiated a survey of the kind mentioned by Désirée Pethrus. Although we have come a long way in the work against honour-related violence and repression, awareness of these problems must be increased. By increasing the awareness of the public and professionals, we can detect and prevent violence and oppression in the name of honour. Today, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland is actively contributing to the dissemination of knowledge and methods to combat honour-related violence and oppression. Furthermore, the Political Authority's accounts in May will provide guidance on – and if so how – criminal investigations can be improved. As I have previously announced, the government will also have the 2014 legislation evaluated. The Government will closely monitor developments in order to consider, if necessary, further action.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-56	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is, of course, gratifying that the Minister says he wants to follow developments regarding the issue of honour in our country and follow the work of the Political Authority to improve criminal investigations in this area. However, I do not think that I am really getting an answer to the Minister's view of setting up a unit that can operate outside Sweden to help all the girls who are being abducted for forced marriage abroad. My point with the interpellation is to highlight the British example. I think we should have a similar system because every year girls are taken out to be married abroad to men whom they themselves have not chosen or even seen before. Today, Sweden does not make regular surveys of the prevalence of coercive marriages, and the knowledge of the relevant authorities varies widely between regions. The county administrative board Östergötland provides a support telephone on behalf of the government, and the statistics give indications of the extent of the problem. It shows that 87 per cent of all callers to the support phone – a total of about 420 calls – report that they are in different ways exposed to an honor-related problem. I am thinking, in particular, of all those, mostly girls, who have been tricked away, who sit terrified and locked up in a house in another country and are about to be married away. We know from experience that many girls feel that there is no support. Nothing happens if, for example, they call the embassy. Since I heard about Forced Marriage Unit last year, I recently visited London. So it is a unit that works against forced marriage. The staff, who are recruited from both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, work both nationally and internationally. They have the main task of ensuring that no one is taken away. They also have a special court document, a legal document that they can use when they are in another country, to have the right to bring the girl home. If you cannot get an agreement with a country, you instead make sure to use what is called forced marriage protection o rder. It provides legal opportunities to go home to the parent who may be left in Britain and say that within 48 hours he must tell where the girl, or if it is the boy, is and restore her or him. Otherwise, the parent may be detained, and if the child is not returned, it may ultimately lead to imprisonment. This makes it very difficult for families who apply the principle of forced marriage to hide the fact that someone is abducted by saying that the child is on vacation. The family is therefore given a certain time limit, otherwise legal action will be taken. Since 2008, nearly 900 such documents have been issued. I would like to point out that the United Kingdom has gone a great deal further than Sweden in terms of unconventional methods of protecting and freeing girls who have been abducted. Is it not time we tried to bring about a similar operation in Sweden? That is the purpose of my interpellation, and I hope to receive an answer from the Minister for Migration.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-64	Mr President, I would like to This is a subject that has become more and more debated in recent years, which is a positive thing. It's really needed. Much has been done. The Minister of Justice mentioned, among other things, the penalties that have been imposed, but at the same time there is reason to be humble, given that the problem still exists. According to a previous survey by the National Youth Board, there are 70 000 young people who feel that they cannot freely choose who to marry. Of course, not everyone is abused or forced to marry, but it still shows that it is a widespread problem. The ultimate consequence is child marriage, forced marriage, violence and even murder, which unfortunately we have had a few cases of in Sweden. In addition, there are some cases that one might suspect are honor killings. It is important to consider both preventing and helping when the damage is done. Preventive work is, I believe, the most important thing. For those affected, it is a disaster once they are in the situation of being abducted and perhaps forced to marry. In the preventive work, a party partner of ours in the Social Democrats, Arhe Hamednaca, has worked very much with this when he worked at the Fryshuset. He's still active there. Then he started Sharaf Heroes. It was about young guys being role models for other young guys and showing that you don't have to continue the old tradition of controlling your sisters and other female relatives. Then Sharaf Heroes have also arrived. I think that this type of effort is very important. On rojekt et Elektra is another example. I think it's very important to start with the young. Of course, you should do what you can to reach those who are older, but I think it is easier for those who are younger to reconsider their views and values on these issues. Much remains to be done with regard to the emergency response. This applies, for example, to sheltered housing. A number of years ago, Maria Barin appealed for shelter. She lived in Skåne. She had previously been married against her will abroad but managed to escape and return to Sweden, but she was persecuted by her family. She asked for a shelter, but unfortunately she didn't. She got her own apartment, but it wasn't a protected address. Her brother ended up killing her. He stabbed her to death with a knife - countless stab wounds. That story is truly a tragedy, and one lesson is precisely that sheltered accommodation is very important. Sometimes you may need to have sheltered housing in a different municipality than where you live because the threat situation is so strong. This applies especially to smaller municipalities. There may be reason to look at the model you have in the UK. It is not certain that the system can be transferred to Sweden. We are different countries, and there may be parts of the system that we do not want. There may also be problems with limits, for example if someone is actually on vacation and is to be returned within 48 hours. But I think this is worth looking at, and I know that a lot has been done in Norway too. I think it is a good thing to look at international examples, and then we can decide for ourselves how to do it here. It is a continuous work that does not end in the near future.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-73	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Désirée Pethrus, for the interpellation, which focuses on a very important issue that is high priority for the government! Thanks also to Hillevi Larsson, who contributes among other things to how important it is with the preventive efforts. In ideological terms, I believe that this is about how we view the family and the children. We often say that our children are a gift, and so it is, but we do not own them. Children have their own rights and are individuals of their own. Rights include the right to choose your own path in life. Perhaps the most important thing is to choose for yourself which life partner to have and who to marry. It's absolutely fundamental. Of course, we do not have to go very far back in history even in our own country to see old, conservative structures with a similar view of the family and the children, where the children were regarded as one of the family's belongings and where the parents would decide everything. But we have broken that view. Every child is an individual and has his or her own rights, and what we are now discussing is one of the most important rights you have, namely the right to choose your own life partner and what life you should lead. As I said, this is an enormous priority for the government. Not only are we following developments, but there are a wide range of measures going on, both preventively and in order to clear up the crimes that occur. Let me mention some of them. We have new legislation in the area of forced marriage since 1 July 2014. There we are now making proposals to criminalise the conspiracy of marriage, that is to say, when preparing or calling for these crimes. There we are filling a gap that has been in the legislation. We have decided on this just before Christmas, and we will make a proposal on it to the Riksdag. Since 2003, the County Administrative Boards have been tasked with coordinating activities and coordinating efforts to detect this type of crime on time. Since 2005, the County Administrative Board of Östergötland has a special task with national responsibility, and since 2013, a national competence team has been associated with it, which is doing an extremely important job in supporting the country's social services. You will report your work to the government in 2017. Then there is the important work done by the police and the prosecution services in respect of honour-related crimes, forced marriages and child marriages. There the police have a mission to report how they work with honor-related violence and oppression. This will be reported to the Government in May 2016. It is not just a question of reporting how you work, but also of proposing measures to strengthen the work. Mrs Pethrus points out two issues that I think it is important for us to develop further together. One is how we ensure a more continuous survey and analysis of how it looks in the country. I would like us to develop methodological support for the way in which municipal surveys are carried out. They are not easy to do, but such a method must be developed, and we will get on with that work. The second is that we must also further develop cooperation with other countries in order to help the children who have been sent abroad. We have to go through the embassies here, but I would like to look at what has been done in the United Kingdom, for example, in cases like this.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-82	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I feel that there is a commitment. I think we both want to get to grips with these issues. This with method support and developing cooperation with other countries I think is a great idea. The British work with their former colonies and the British Commonwealth, where you have many natural contacts. I think we could use our aid as a pressure factor in the talks with different countries. Many countries now want to demonstrate, with the new sustainability goals at the UN, that they work with gender equality and to prevent unequal relations. Hopefully, it also means fighting forced marriages, which have, to some extent, come up on both the EU's and the UN's agenda. I hope that Sweden can start by starting such talks. I would like to see something like that happen. The right to marry and to form a family is enshrined in Article 16 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In this way, we have an international framework to build on. No one should have to be forced to marry. As Hillevi Larsson said earlier, the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society conducted a study that showed that about 70 000 young people aged 16-25 feel that they cannot freely choose who they want to marry. We still have far too few statistics on honour crimes. We need to improve there, and we also need to ensure that there is an order in which girls, who are usually concerned, have someone to turn to in concrete terms. This opportunity has been given to these girls in the UK through various apps and telephone lines, both if they are in the country and if they are abducted. This is very concrete. Although we have developed various types of legislation under the alliance government – we introduced a ban on forced marriage, we raised the penalties and so on – there is much that remains and that we can do to ensure that those who have been abducted also come home. There is a need for concrete action here, and I think that the British Unit is something worth studying further for the Minister. Then I would like to ask you a question. In the media we heard yesterday about asylum seekers' children who are married. We do not know whether they have been forced to marry as children or not, but it is obviously a question of child marriage. Here, the National Board of Health and Welfare might need to develop guidelines because the municipalities do different things. It feels like we need clear guidelines. I would like to hear a comment on this from the Minister for Migration. Then there are two other things. One is that Britain is also flagging crime. A specific coding is therefore carried out that follows the matter all the way, which makes it much more transparent as to the extent of the problem. The second is that, in a motion here in Parliament, I am pushing the question that we should have legislation that separate regulates honour crimes. It is therefore a specific crime case, which we will discuss here tomorrow at a seminar with Never forget Pela and Fadime. I would like to hear some comments on how the Minister views those issues as well.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-91	Mr President, I would like to I can only agree with what has been said. There is a need for cooperation with other countries and identification of what cases we see in Sweden and how they are handled. It is important that it is handled in a good way throughout the country. There is a risk that skills vary in different parts of the country. Of course, it is also a resource issue, but you should be able to feel safe wherever you are in the country. Nor should it be the case that a lack of housing means that municipalities ball between themselves because no one wants to stand for the shelter – such cases have unfortunately existed. Then I think it is important to cooperate with the school, of course, but also between social services and the police. In the case of Maria Barin, which I mentioned earlier, there was no coordination between them. I think it might have been possible to prevent the process if there had been a risk analysis from the police. She was actually threatened with death. That in itself should have led to her being sheltered. But there was no cooperation. I think it needs to be in this serious case. There was a long story. She had already been married. I think she was as young as 14 when she was married abroad. After that, she had lived under threat in Sweden for a long time. So I think it is very important that those dealing with cases interact. In the first place, it's guys who do the murders. We haven't had many, but unfortunately there are a few. The young guys are chosen precisely because they are so young, because you think they will get a shorter penalty. They are in a way both perpetrators and victims in this situation. It is clear that they must be responsible for their actions, but they have also been pressured to do so. I believe that more must be done to prevent these situations. That's the most important thing.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-94	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my previous speech, there are a number of issues on which we must continue to work. One such question is precisely how we develop cooperation with other countries. Now the British have a special situation with their special relations with a number of countries for which they have previously been colonial power. This means that they are working with Pakistan, for example, in a different way from what we might have been able to do. On the other hand, Pakistan may not be the most important thing for us to focus on. For us, this could be about Syria. This could be about Iraq. This could be about Iran. This could be about Turkey. We should, as it were, develop the opportunities with those countries to cooperate better. Then we will have to come back to what form it should take, if there is to be any particular unit and how to work between the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and other departments, but it is at least a model. I would like to look at how the UK and Norway are working on this. Otherwise, we already have a wide range of measures under way. We are criminalising the conspiracy of forced marriage, which means that we are closing the gap that was unfortunately left in the old legislation, the legislation that was adopted in 2014. We are now plugging it so that we have comprehensive legal support for the criminalisation of the entire preparatory stage of this type of crime. We're developing police work. I look forward to the report that the police are going to give us in May. There you look at how you yourself, nationally, work but also how you work together with Interpol and with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and internationally to solve some of these problems. Then we will do what I said in my last speech. We will develop a method support for the municipal survey. I think it's important. We should also, I think, evaluate the 2014 legislation on forced marriage. I remember that when we discussed it in Parliament, we had some doubts on our part as to whether it would really be effective legislation, if it were really to work. We need some more evidence before we can stand on solid ground when it comes to an evaluation. However, I think it is important for us to make such an evaluation. We will do so as soon as we have a slightly larger base. Désirée Pethrus raises a few more questions, including the question raised yesterday regarding unaccompanied minors who say that there are adults with whom they are married. I got a couple of media questions yesterday about it and was interviewed about it. I was very clear in what I said: Children are children and are to be treated as children. Adults are adults and should be treated as adults. When social services investigate these cases, it is important, I think, that they actually assume that children are children. I also said that I think that all municipalities that make these investments should do as Gothenburg. The child should be treated as an unaccompanied minor, while the adult in that relationship should be taken care of by the Migration Agency. I realise that there is a grey area and that there are some difficulties in the individual cases. But that must be the starting point. We will not indirectly contribute to the recognition of child marriage. For in some of these marriages there may well be a basis for simply having been forced into marriage, and living in a relationship under great oppression.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-101	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Justice and Migration, for your answer. Yes, I think it is extremely important that we are very clear on these issues and that we do not allow ourselves to land in this: yes, yes, but these girls come from this culture, and they are allowed to have this legislation. The same legislation should apply to everyone who is in Sweden and who wants to be a part of Sweden. It's extremely important, I think. We can't leave girls behind. What I found so fascinating when I met the British team was that the girl – it could also be the boy – was so clearly in focus. Here in Sweden it is like this: You come here. You come to a rule of law where you feel safe until this happens and you are abducted and call someone at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or at some embassy. Then you're pretty lonely. They say that they have little to offer. It has become the case that Swedish organisations sometimes have to act on other land, quite simply. This is not a good development. It is the Swedish rule of law and the Swedish police that must act. I hope a great deal is said by the Minister, that until May 2016 the Poli Authority will come up with some proposals. There, I hope, we can agree on something. But, as I said, what I really want to emphasise is: in addition to what should of course be preventive work and cooperation between authorities, which is extremely important for prevention, we must have instruments. They have two instruments in the UK. It's about picking up the girl at the scene. And if it doesn't work with agreements, you have the other option: to make sure that the parent presents the child's whereabouts as soon as possible. There are two legal documents. I would like us to have something similar in Sweden. At least I'll keep pushing that until I see some change.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-106	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to thank Mrs Pethrus for the interpellation. We do not start from scratch – quite the opposite. This is a work that has been going on for quite a long time. I'm pointing out that the county boards were given this assignment back in 2003. And since 2005, Östergötland has a special mission. Then we gradually expand our activities and ensure that we strengthen the legislation and develop the collaborations that need to be developed. I have pointed out a few things that we must do. One relates to the municipal surveys, which are addressed by Désirée Pethrus in the interpellation. We need to find methodological support for them. It is not easy to implement, but we are really going to do what we can to try to find methods for this. The second is precisely about developing cooperation with a number of countries that are at stake. What diplomatic means we use, we must take on a case-by-case basis. Often such questions can be solved much easier than you might think just by sitting down and talking about them. I had just today a meeting with the Moroccan President where we talked about Moroccan children here in Sweden and other expulsions that we have to resolve together. If you sit down and talk to each other and lift it up at that level you usually can solve a lot of problems. We will now do the same for this part. We will also look at how other countries do it. Britain has a system that is slightly different from ours. This applies to both the administrative structure and the possibilities for courts to act. I believe that the idea of working specifically towards different countries must be able to build on. With that, I would like to thank you once again for the interpellation debate.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-111	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson has asked me whether I intend to work towards the implementation of the Housing Planning Committee's proposals according to the proposed timetable or whether I am prepared to delay implementation pending the conclusions of the Division Committee. The Housing Planning Committee has proposed a new Regional Spatial Planning Act with its planned entry into force on 1 January 2019. According to the proposal, the cooperation bodies referred to in the Act on Interoperability in the counties and the county councils referred to in the Act on Regional Development Responsibility in certain counties are responsible for carrying out regional spatial planning within their respective counties. In Gotland County, the municipality of Gotland shall have the task of carrying out regional spatial planning, and in other counties the county council shall have the task. According to the Committee's proposal, there should be a regional physical programme adopted in each county by 2022. The Committee's proposals mean that, in some cases, the actors responsible for regional spatial planning will need to strengthen their competence in such spatial planning. The Housing Planning Committee's report was consulted in the autumn of 2015, where the last referral was received by the Government Office on 4 December 2015. Work is now under way to compile and analyse the referrals prior to the government's assessment of the conditions for implementing the Committee's proposals. This work will continue in the spring of 2016. The division committee is tasked with proposing a new division of counties and county councils, which means that Sweden is divided into considerably fewer counties and county councils. The assignment shall be reported no later than 31 August 2017. Before that date, the Committee shall submit to the Government, by 29 February 2016, an interim report including a progress report on the dialogue with interested parties, proposals for the continuation of the process and an explanation of the need for any additions to the mandate. Where the Committee considers that it is possible to implement one or more subdivision changes that may enter into force on 1 January 2019, it shall submit an interim report by 30 June 2016. The Government has not yet taken a position on the Housing Planning Committee's proposal, and the prerequisites for a change in the province classification are under investigation. However, it does not seem unthinkable that certain undesirable consequences may arise if the Housing Planning Committee's proposals are implemented without taking into account any changes in the county classification. For example, there may be a certain risk of in vain work on the part of the responsible actors if the organisation responsible for managing regional spatial planning needs to be adjusted due to a change in regional planning. Against this background, I believe it is necessary to take into account the work of the Division Committee in order to ensure that regional spatial planning is properly designed. This does not mean that the proposal of the Housing Planning Committee is put on ice. As early as June 2016, the Division Committee shall indicate whether it considers it possible to implement one or more subdivision changes that may enter into force on 1 January 2019. This means that already this summer there will be an opportunity to assess how the continued work on the implementation of the Housing Planning Committee's proposals will be carried out. There is therefore no need to delay the implementation of the Housing Planning Committee's proposals.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-115	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. That confirms my concern. The Government considers it a problem that there is also a review of the county division and will therefore be able to delay the implementation of the Housing Planning Committee's proposal. It's written in the stars when we get it here to Parliament for decision. More accurately, it has been put on ice. What is hidden in snow comes up in the tö, to use a current proverb for the day. That's a double uncertainty. The regions prepared to take precedence – such as the 15 signatories of the debate article in Svenska Dagbladet on 15 October, which I quote – want to be able to prepare themselves and already have an organisation in place in 2019. They become uncertain, as it all depends on whether and when the Division Committee presents a proposal that can be accepted by the Riksdag. Those regions which, for some reason, may be eligible for a different classification, are now putting all their energy into trying to influence the Division Committee when they should instead have clear guidelines for preparing for regional planning. Mr President, I would like to I am a slipperyer and I have confidence in my own county's ability to handle the regional plane instrument. I know that Region Halland, the County Administrative Board of Halland and the municipalities already have that competence. Some of us have even been involved in developing a joint plan for the Gothenburg region within our local government association GR. For us, it would be a strength and is something we are waiting to plan for half a million inhabitants by 2030 as a cohesive growth region between Gothenburg and Malmö. Enough about that: keep Halland completely! The Alliance government appointed the Parliamentary Housing Planning Committee in 2013. The study presented its proposals in agreement in the summer of 2015. At the time, the Minister of Housing was very enthusiastic. More recently, however, there has been silence about the Housing Planning Committee's proposals. If the government exceptionally describes how it intends to meet the increasingly urgent need for housing in the country, regional planning is not mentioned at all. Now it is new cross-block talks that apply, with other issues. We're looking forward to it. I remember earlier debates with the Government where he gladly and often pointed out the Housing Planning Committee as an example of such cross-block cooperation. It was perhaps optimistic, since the Committee had only one mission. It was to explore different options for implementing spatial planning at regional level. But still: Mehmet Kaplan bragged, as if this were going to solve everything. It was the Alliance that appointed the committee, gave the commission and invited the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats to participate. The investigation was unanimous, and the referee has been positive. Now it is the red-green government that is hovering on the target. What is the in vain work that is being talked about, and who are the victims? What consideration must be given to the Division Committee? Does the government not realise that this work will take a very long time? Mr President, I would like to The information given in the Minister's reply is soaring. If the final division is to be waited for, no regional planning will start in 2019 that Kaplan promises. No county will have a regional spatial planning plan ready for the end of 2022 or even the beginning. We agree on the importance of allocating responsibility for planning to more hands and that the regions are of particular importance now that 700 000 homes will be built up by 2025 and an increasing population of 1 million people by 2025 will be distributed across the country and not just in the big cities. Unfortunately, this time again, the Minister's answer does not provide answers to questions we are asking about the housing crisis and the way we are now going to speed up the planning and construction of the tens of thousands of more homes that are needed now and in the next few years.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-124	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ola Johansson for the follow-up questions. Ola Johansson says, "If and when" The Division Committee makes proposals. However, that is exactly what I explained in my introduction, Ola Johansson. There may be some risk of in vain work on the part of the responsible actors if the organisation responsible for managing regional spatial planning needs to be adjusted due to a change in the classification of counties. It is therefore important to take into account the work of the Division Committee in order to ensure that regional spatial planning is properly designed. This does not apply to when, but are correct, Ola Johansson. It is not certain that the Division Committee will make these proposals. When, however, is quite right, and I explained this in the introduction. The mandate shall be finalized by 31 August 2017, but before that date, the Committee will submit to the Government, by 29 February of this year at the latest, an interim report including a progress report on the dialogue with interested parties, proposals for the further process, and – and this is important – an explanation of the need for any additions to the mandate. If the Committee considers that it is possible to implement one or more subdivision changes that may enter into force on 1 January 2019, it shall submit an interim report by 30 June of this year at the latest. So there is really no strangeness; the answer to the question is black in white. As far as the question is concerned, whether or not neither I nor Ola Johansson should speculate, because the committee is actually quite competent to come up with various types of proposals.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-128	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mehmet Kaplan for his reply. I repeat what the leading political representatives of 15 regions wrote on Svenska Dagbladet's debate page on 21 October 2015: It is an important step towards socially, environmentally and economically sustainable development throughout Sweden, which makes us stronger equipped to face global competition! ..................................................... The Alliance Government appointed the Housing Planning Committee in 2013. The Red Green Government has done nothing about the proposals except to receive them and thank them. It is easy to imagine that this is related to the work of the Division Committee, which according to the directives it gave should present proposals that make Sweden's counties and county councils considerably fewer. The Minister's reply confirms our concern that this will delay and that the changes to the classification will be substantial. The Minister replies that it is necessary to take account of the work of the Division Committee in order to ensure that regional spatial planning is properly designed. But what prevents the future regions from knowing from the start what is going on and rigging an organisation for what they are going to do, and that the proposal comes to this House for decision before the Division Committee is finished? The planning committee's proposed timetable, i.e. the one that leading political representatives of 15 regions call on the government to stick to, is that a new law on regional spatial planning will enter into force on 1 January 2019. A regional physical programme should be adopted in each county by 2020. If this is to become a reality, the work must begin now. The Minister's assessment that the conclusions of the Division Committee can be awaited without delaying the implementation of the Housing Planning Committee's proposals is a pipe dream. We who are involved in the counties know that the issue is more complex than that. In June of this year, the disaggregation committee will report whether it is possible to implement a new regional division as early as 1 January 2019, but in that case it is a question of whether any region wants and can take precedence. Final proposals for a new division of counties and county councils will not be presented until autumn 2017, and not even the government itself dares to hope that the regional map can be redrafted until 2023. The Housing Planning Committee's proposal is unlike the Division Committee's well-established in the Riksdag and across block boundaries. In addition, contrary to what the government believes, the proposals are fully feasible regardless of where the regional borders go. People who commute to work, get to their leisure activities, greet their friends and relatives, and get home to their home do not care if they travel across a county border or not. So let me remind you that the regions want the Housing Planning Committee's proposals to be implemented on time. Region Skåne, Stockholm County Council and Västra Götaland Region are among the signatories of the debate article I quoted in the interpellation and in my answer here. This means that large regions also want better cooperation between municipalities, regions and the state in the planning of housing and infrastructure. I therefore appeal to the Minister to speed up work on the Housing Planning Committee's proposals and not to await the possible success of the Division Committee in redrawing the country's map.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-137	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ola Johansson very much for the follow-up comments. There was really nothing new in what Ola Johansson said, but there seems to be a difference of opinion here. Ola Johansson believes that we do not even have to wait for the interim report to come within six months, that is, in June of this year, and I believe that it is in order to protect both our regions and the people who might start working on these issues that we need to take it into account. It is a work a government needs to do in order not to be hindsight afterwards and say that we did not think about it.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-139	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Kaplan for having had this debate. Although it has been a vague response, it has been clarification. We cannot count on the proposals of the Regional Planning Committee, although it was unanimous, to be presented to us here in Parliament until the Division Committee has at least come one step further in its work. I mean, it's too long. The regions we have and the regions we will have, as I said earlier, have the skills and capacity to begin the urgent work of planning for housing. People who live close to a county border – I myself am one of them – do not feel any difficulties and do not know what problems a possible new county or regional border could entail for their ability to commute, move across borders, participate in leisure activities or go home. Although the government is currently trying to prevent this in the Öresund region, I believe that the ability and willingness of the current regions and municipalities to cooperate across borders – as has been done in the Gothenburg region, where Kungsbacka has been involved – will be able to create the best place of life for people o intended their residential address or origin. It is regrettable that the Minister cannot provide better information and that urgent reforms in the residential area are delayed.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-143	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for raising this important question, Ola Johansson! I think everyone who has followed the debate or reads the Minutes actually knows that what I said was very clear. There is nothing hidden or between the lines of what I said in my introduction. There is also written, Ola Johansson. It is not the case that we should wait for several years with this, but there will be a partial report by 30 June if it is the case that the Division Committee finds it possible to implement one or more subdivision changes that can enter into force in 2019. It may be difficult when we talk about different dates. It is many years until 2019. But 2016 is this year; we changed the year at the turn of the year. We only have six months until we actually know what's going to apply. I have stood in this House many, many times and debated with ministers who have said that there will be an investigation or an interim report. Although it has been difficult to bring it in, I understand that okay, it will take a few months and then we know with more certainty what the consequences of this will be. These proposals, which Ola Johansson himself has been involved in the Housing Planning Committee, are important. That is why I have said in the past, both in this speaker's chair and in the media, that these are important proposals that the Committee has put forward. Some of these proposals will be assessed according to their actual weight and value. However, when the Dividing Committee has only a few months left until it has to submit its interim report, I think it is appropriate to wait for it.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-148	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what would be the desired outcome of the Council for digitisation of the work of public Sweden and what powers the Council will have. Erik Ottoson has also asked me how the Council can act in addition to the initiatives taken by the members of the Council themselves within their respective organisations. Let me begin by describing the long-term work initiated by the government on the digitisation of public Sweden. My goal and the government's goal is that Sweden will continue to be a leading IT nation and that we will consolidate our position as one of the world leaders in digital management. This is why the Government has decided on a special initiative for e-government in 2015– 2018– a programme for digital renewal of public Sweden. In order to implement the programme, the Government has in 2015 taken several new initiatives based on close collaboration between different actors. Firstly, a new eGovernment unit has been set up at the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry to drive the work forward. Secondly, the Swedish Financial Control Agency, ESV, has been tasked with providing support to the government and to the state authorities for their efforts in this area. Thirdly, a letter of intent has been signed by the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting, SKL, for digital renewal of public Sweden. Fourthly, the government cooperates with e-Sam, which is a voluntary programme for digital collaboration with some fifteen authorities and SKL. An important part of the work is the establishment of a Council for the digitisation of public Sweden. It is an advisory group tasked with assisting the government in digitising the public administration. The task is partly to assist the Government by being a forum for strategic discussion between the Government and representatives of authorities, municipalities and county councils, and partly to identify and discuss challenges during the implementation of the Government's eGovernment initiative and if necessary propose measures. The Council's proposals will be examined in the Government Office, whereupon the relevant departments prioritise and prepare possible actions in the context of established processes. Through the Council, the government gathers the necessary skills to implement our eGovernment initiative, which we call a digital first. The Council includes representatives from the entire public sector and key policy areas such as education, health and long-term care and the competence of strategically important authorities. Citizens and companies place great demands on a cooperative public administration and on effective contact with the authorities. The government has received criticism from the OECD, the EU, the Swedish National Audit Office, Statskontoret and the Swedish Financial Control Agency, for the fact that the development of common e-government solutions by the state authorities is too slow while too many IT projects carry over the budget. Here we can get better, and the government has pointed out a clear direction and is acting from a holistic perspective. On 14 December 2015, the Council held a first inaugural meeting, which confirmed the need for a multi-administrative forum. Increased coordination is one of the major development potentials of public administration, both for increased services to citizens and businesses and for reducing unnecessary costs to the public sector. Many authorities and organisations face similar challenges. Lifting these together also strengthens the ability to handle them. There are expectations of jointly influencing legislation, developing standards and promoting an interoperable and efficient public sector. I see in front of me that the Council will provide significant insights and suggestions on priorities that are crucial for our success in achieving our objectives of a simpler, more transparent and more efficient public administration.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-156	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is one thing that is often said in order to say it in an interpellation debate, but that is the time I mean it too. Thank you very much for your answer! And the surprise in the face of the government cannot be mistaken. I feel that this has been really thought through. There is a plan for this, and now it must be put into effect. That is very good, Mr President. Once again, thank you, Minister for your answer. However, there are still a few questions that I would like to have investigated. I have had debates in this House on e-government in the past, and then the government minister responsible for the questions has been Minister Shekarabi. We have talked, among other things, about the need for open data, and then it has fallen into the mire of Government Shekarabis. The government is now establishing a Council that will take care of these issues, among other things. It will be led by Minister Kaplan who will also answer the questions. It would be interesting to know which minister it is who takes responsibility for e-government issues, whether it is Minister Shekarabi or Minister Kaplan. An extremely important part if you are to make this fall well out is, as the Government itself is concerned, clear governance. In addition to the political governance that takes place from the level of government, I think it is important to have clear governance from the level of officials that is just below the political level. The Government and I have often discussed what ministers may and may not do, and there are certain limits, I also acknowledge, for what a minister can do in the performance of his duties without the risk of being accused of ministerial rule. When it comes to this form of very concrete and often executive decisions that need to be taken in terms of standardisation, IT system procurement, interoperability and coordination, I imagine that a clear cross-border command structure is needed to minimise the risk of a fragmented approach and that authorities tackle the same IT problems in different ways. Although I have great faith in the powers of the government, he is limited. I would therefore like to know whether the government has appointed someone at official level who is able to put down the foot where the foot needs to be put down, who is able to make these decisions. Should we call it a government general? Maybe we shouldn't use that concept too much, but just to get the government to understand something about what I'm after. It is extremely important to keep up the speed of these reforms that need to take place in the administration of the state and in the way the state meets people on the digital stage and sustains the efficiency of that work, because we do not have a day to lose. We need to keep up the pace, because the pace of change in this arena is so fast. An even greater challenge that the Government also touches upon is how to get all the municipalities in this country – they are quite numerous – to march in about the same direction. Most municipal residents and citizens want to be met by roughly the same technical solution, regardless of which side of a geographical municipal border you stand on. It is important that we have common standards, as the Government was concerned about. Here, too, I think there is a need for clear leadership, and I am very interested in hearing the thoughts of the Government on how to make this possible from the central level.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-166	Mr President, I would like to I thank Erik Ottoson for an important debate based on the fact that we have and have had a broad consensus in this House for many years. It is also because previous governments have done the right priorities and the right things. This applies both to the alliance governments during the previous and the previous term of office and to the government before. It also depends on the objectives we want to achieve with eGovernment policy. I said in my reply that we have a new unit at the Ministry of Industry that works with eGovernment issues. What does it matter, you can ask. Well, it matters quite a lot when it comes to the work of the government that we have a place where knowledge and information can be gathered so that the entire Government Office with all government ministers can be coordinated on eGovernment issues in general. As for Ardalan Shekarabis and my different entrances, it's just like between Anders Ygeman and me. Anders Ygeman deals with IT security issues, as Erik Ottoson knows, and I deal with IT policy in general. As far as e-government is concerned, I have general responsibility, while Ardalan Shekarabi is responsible for procurement issues, among other things, and for ensuring coordination at the level of government. With regard to the other questions, the answers are partly in the questions raised by Erik Ottoson. We have a common line on how to ensure that efficiency is not affected by the element of surprise that digitalisation is upon us. We have been having a problem in Sweden for a number of years, and that is why I spoke in my opening speech about the government having received criticism. I did not say whether it was the old government or the current government, because there is no conflict area on this issue. That is why we need an efficiency approach, and I welcome the fact that Members of Parliament, like Erik Ottoson, raise this issue, monitor it and bring in the necessary perspectives. I will take with me several of the perspectives and views that Erik Ottoson puts forward. As far as the Council's work is concerned, it is a little too early to be unconditional. If I were now to set up a number of the lines that we within my staff have been working on and the government discussed, it would be a limiting factor for the Council. The Council has a need for the various Members to come in with their perspectives uncolored by what the government thinks and thinks about the matter. Then we will have to put this together, and Parliament will be involved in the work. As far as I am concerned, this also means a good opportunity to gain knowledge from public authorities, which are the state, and thereby be able to interact with the IT and telecommunications companies. It is about all the different pieces that are affected by, among other things, open data, how internet management should be handled and not least about taking advantage of the good examples that exist in our surrounding world. I was recently in Estonia and Finland and got a good insight into how they have worked to get the prominent position and role that it is sometimes painted that they have. We are still moving forward in Sweden, and we have been doing so for many years. But the other countries have run faster and some of them have caught up with us.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-176	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for developing his response. I think he is on the trail of the need to be unconditional in discussions and to have a high ceiling on the work of such a council. I have full confidence that those recruited to the Council will do their job. The Government also made a top recruitment when he brought in the municipal director from my municipality of residence, Vesna Jovic. Well, congratulations. It is not an easy task to get all the authorities and ministers to march in the same direction and, above all, not all municipalities where there are many different political perceptions of what is right and wrong and very different levels of ambition. I fully understand that the most important thing for a small municipality with a failing population is not to invest in new major IT reforms for building permit management etc. It can be nice to continue in old ruts. Therefore, a great stimulus is needed and perhaps sometimes a firm hand that leads the municipalities in the right direction so that we ensure that the same quality of digital service is provided regardless of where in Sweden you live. However, we must not interfere with local self-government, which is an important principle which I believe many support. This goes against the effectiveness of the efforts that are then made and beyond the speed with which they can be made, because coordination is important, and there are many different players who are moving in the same direction. The Council is a good start to that. When I read the press release that the Council was to be set up, I was pleasantly surprised that this was being done. Maybe I shouldn't have been surprised, but at least that's the way it was. I had the hope that the Council could also have a more executive role. Now the Government describes that it will rather be located on the unit within the Ministry of Industry. I understand that the ideas in the Council are being found and carried out through the Ministry of Industry. In doing so, both the Government and I will have to be vigilant that efficiency and speed are maintained and that the consensus that such advice can provide is successfully applied. I have great confidence in Municipal Director Vesna Jovic from my municipality of residence. But she is the sole representative of the local government sector in the Council, and the local government sector is a very important part if we are to get it-Sweden to march forward in the right direction. I have a few supplementary questions for the Government. Can the Government be open to the need to take further action to get the local government sector on the train? The fact that SKL is involved does not mean that all municipalities are involved automatically. If so, what kind of tools can he use in his toolbox?
i-6884d88a2c41040a-185	Mr President, I would like to I thank Erik Ottoson for a constructive discussion on what we are both passionate about, namely an efficient government and an e-government that fills citizens and businesses. After all, the business community is creating jobs and enabling us to continue to be one of the countries that makes the best use of the opportunities of digitalisation. Ardalan Shekarabis area is efficient government; he is responsible for that. One of the tools is, of course, eGovernment. It is an important part of the state's ability to operate in the best possible way on the basis of the mission that citizens have given to the state and which, in the long run, means that we want the best possible effect from each tax chandelier. It's an important entrance. Erik Ottoson asked a question about further measures to get municipal Sweden involved. Just because you have with SKL you do not have all of Kommunsverige, because it looks so different. We have 290 municipalities. The very foundation of the democratic mission is, of course, the fact that citizens are close to their elected representatives in these municipalities. At the same time, 290 municipalities are a relatively unwieldy number when it comes to anchoring and obtaining information in broad sections of the population and, above all, acquiring knowledge and discussion on these issues. Over the years, SKL has done an important and democratic fundamental work to promote the views of municipalities on issues, and therefore they are a natural part of the advisory body. That we then have with individual municipalities is to ensure that we above all get a varnish mouse test on where it can land, not a control station. When I travel around the country and meet municipal leaders, regardless of their political colour, it is one of the issues I raise. I visit municipalities and their IT departments, if they have them, and discuss with the local authorities what kind of services they expect from the state, where they need input, what kind of feedback they need and if they feel that SKL can properly pass this on to us. So far I have not received any signals that SKL would not represent the municipalities properly, but this should not prevent us from having the breadth that it means to have 290 municipalities. There I am dependent not only on the members of my own party, the Environment Party, which exists in large parts of the country, but also on Erik Ottoson and his party friends and many other Members of Parliament who have an interest in the issue and who can raise this area in different ways. I feel that this sometimes becomes a discussion for the most bereaved, and it is dangerous. Today, the digital economy and the issue of digitalisation as a whole are at least as important as urbanisation, which many more are discussing and debating, not least in the media. This area becomes almost a bit of an area of expertise for nerds who think it is an important issue. I and Ardalan Shekarabi are following this up closely, and we are pleased with the discussion.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-194	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for the advanced thinking. We nerds do a lot of work on this. I would like to clarify what I mean by the concept of efficiency, because there is absolutely such a concept. Government administration should be effective, and digitalisation is a tool. The efficiency of developing digital tools is also very important because the development in this area is always so fast. This is a major challenge for the entire state administration, not least the area for which Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin is responsible, to ensure that the school has the necessary skills. The competence to implement and implement effectively and at the right time is also something that I think you may need to share across municipal boundaries, so that you are not two years behind in development all the time. Unfortunately, this is too common in public Sweden, where procurement takes a long time. Nor is the procurement instrument by far the easiest to use when dealing with ever - changing matter, unless you procure short contracts very often. Then there are problems with it instead. I think we need to look at this. I'm going to put together an interpellation with Minister Shekarabi and cave down a little more in how we can work with procurement and efficient e-government. My final question to the Government is: How does he see how we can achieve efficiency in implementation even better? What further steps can be taken to ensure that the implementation of the new technological advances is as successful as possible?
i-6884d88a2c41040a-199	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Erik Ottoson for the follow-up question and for the very reason he asked the question, namely his concern that this is an area that could be even better so that, if you put it that way, we, as a nation and taxpayers, can have additional currency for our money. Since Erik Ottoson mentioned Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, I would also like to take the opportunity to say that we have recently commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop a new IT and digitisation strategy. It is an area that I expected for many years to exist, and I am therefore pleased that there is now such work going on within the Swedish National Agency for Education. This is an important area. The whole area raised by Erik Ottoson is not covered, but it is still an important part. As far as the very beginning of Erik Ottoson's final question is concerned, it is ultimately a question of creating added value for citizens and businesses. There is no intrinsic value in digitising the state apparatus, whether it is for efficiency or otherwise, but it must be the effects of digitalisation and the eGovernment itself that must be sought. We have seen how some countries have done some right. Then one can always discuss whether these countries started from scratch and therefore could build up a much more effective eGovernment strategy than Sweden, which has been out on the track for a long time and therefore has accumulated a digitization debt, if you can see it that way. I therefore believe that the more areas such as this can be implemented and the more entrepreneurs and individuals who can see the benefits of digitalisation, the more opportunities for efficiency we will have in the state apparatus. It's an interaction.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-204	Mr President, I would like to Linus Sköld has asked me what assessment tools I think schools and their staff need to work in an efficient and nuanced way with students' knowledge development and the quality of their activities. Linus Sköld has also asked me what I can do to create the conditions for an assessment practice that best supports the development of students and businesses. I agree with Linus Sköld that assessment as a tool for learning and development is important, both for the individual and for the business as a whole. I also agree that a one-sided focus on grades and test results may risk that development and learning itself will be subordinated. I also share the view that too summarising an assessment can be generalising and thus legally insecure. I believe that the tools that are provided by law in the form of development discussions, written individual development plans, national tests, grades and grades combined with government and local support actions, as well as support materials and support systems as a whole, are sufficient if Vice-Chancellors and teachers are given the time and opportunity to use the tools effectively. The same applies to the provisions and support for systematic quality work at national, main and unit level. In addition, from 1 July 2016, it will be mandatory for all comprehensive school, comprehensive school, special school and Sami school schools to use assessment support in grade 1. The Swedish Agency for Education has developed an assessment support that will help teachers to early discover students who are at risk of not reaching the knowledge requirements in mathematics or in reading and writing development in Swedish or Swedish as a second language. It will also be used to detect students who have progressed further in their knowledge development. This is important because all children and pupils should be given the guidance and incentives they need to develop as far as possible according to their own circumstances according to the goals of the education. When it comes to creating the conditions for a good assessment practice, it is the principal and the principal who bear a great responsibility. A prerequisite for a good assessment practice is that teaching and assessment are interrelated and not seen as individual phenomena. Of course, the State has a responsibility, for example with regard to national tests. I would therefore like to highlight a currently ongoing study on the review of the national tests, which will present its proposals in March of this year. The aim is to achieve a more efficient and reliable system at national level. The investigator shall, inter alia, review the purpose, function and scope of the national tests. The assignment includes analysing the prerequisites for digitising the samples. This means, for example, that the distribution of the samples can be significantly simplified and that the assessment in some parts can be done mechanically. In the long term, there is a significant efficiency potential in the digitisation of the tests, which can mean that resources are released for other work and that the equivalence of the assessment increases. The test investigation is also tasked with identifying needs for, and proposing, where appropriate, how to improve information and assessment instructions related to the national tests in order to increase equivalence in the assessment and to examine the need to develop further assessment support. The commission of the test investigation also includes proposing, taking into account the international studies in the field, a system for continuous evaluation for trend measurement over time. I would also like to highlight the recent assignment to the Swedish National Agency for National School Development Programmes that includes support for systematic quality work, with a focus on monitoring and evaluating students' knowledge development, including efforts where existing statistics and IT can be used as both educational and administratively effective tools. Since before, the Swedish National Agency for Education has also been tasked with evaluating the new grading scale and the design of the knowledge requirements. The evaluation shall take place from the perspective of national equivalence, clarity for pupils and teachers and possible impact on so-called grade inflation. In this work, the proven experience of the teaching staff should be included. The Swedish National Agency for Education will also make proposals for measures to address any problems that the evaluation shows. The Swedish National Agency for Education is also tasked with evaluating grades from grade 6 in comprehensive school and corresponding school forms. Both assignments are reported during the year. In addition, the government has made a deal with the bourgeois parties to set up as of 2017 a trial for a maximum of 100 participating schools throughout the country with grades from grade 4. Against this background, it can be concluded that the Government has taken a number of measures to support the development of pupils and activities in relation to different types of assessment. I therefore look forward to the exchange of views in the interpellation debate.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-215	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. It is clear that we agree on a lot of things, me and the Minister for Education. It is also possible to add to what the Minister of Education has lined up the importance of the interrelationship of assessment and teaching, reasonable conditions for carrying out good teaching and a good assessment practice. It's kind of basic. I hear the Minister agrees with the risks I have presented with an overly one-sided focus on summarising assessments such as grades and test results. The Minister for Education notes that the rules are generally adequate as they stand. The Minister lines up a number of measures taken by the Government. It is mandatory assessment support, assessment of the purpose, function and scope of the national tests and digitalisation, national school development programmes and evaluation of the grade scale, evaluation of grades from grade 6 and trials with grades from grade 4. So there are grades, grades and grades, national tests, mandatory assessment support and so little national school development programmes. I would argue that it underlines my thesis that the state has a strong focus on the summative assessment. However, there is a gap, and it is the inquiry into the national substance tests, which, according to the Minister's reply, has the purpose and function of the tests as a perspective. I think it leaves an opening to have the kind of conversation that I want about assessment and national subject tests. What do we need them for? For whose sake are the tests to be carried out? What will it be like for students and teachers to take the tests? Does it benefit the individual student's knowledge development? Does it benefit the quality of the business? Is it both or neither? Perhaps it is easy for the Minister for Education to answer that, but in my world these are complex questions. These are stones that I think it needs to be turned around, so that the assessment discussion at political level should not implode to just apply from which grade or in how many steps and how many tests. I think that the evaluation of the rating scale also deserves some attention. The perspective of equivalence, clarity for teachers and students and the impact on grade inflation do not have the same honest focus as the perspectives in the investigation of the national exams. I wrote in the interpellation that I wish more of the focus on the needs of the business, teachers and students for assessment as tools for development. I note that these perspectives, based on the evaluation to be made of the new grading scale, cannot be said to focus on how the grading system functions as a development tool for students' knowledge development or the quality of their activities. I would therefore like the Minister for Education to give the text a little bit about the aims of the Minister for Education with the grades as an assessment tool or form of assessment. What are their functions? Are the purposes of the functions effectively met through the rating system, or can they be developed and supplemented in order to become more effective?
i-6884d88a2c41040a-221	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Linus Sköld, for the opportunity to discuss pedagogy and really difficult educational and didactic issues in Parliament's Chamber. Since Linus Sköld landed in grade questions and how the grades should work, I will start by problematizing a statement that Linus Sköld made: Since such a large part of the answer was about grades and tests, the government had more focus on the summative assessment. That finding is based on the assumption that grades and tests are always only summative. But that's when, I'd say, grades and tests lose their purpose. Grades and tests must be part of a formal assessment where not the letter of the grade or the number that gives the final score in the exams is the goal of the activity but where it is part of a development of knowledge for the individual student and discussed with the student in such a way that the student can take it with him or her from this as well and not just as an effort to achieve the letter or figure in the test result. Grades must serve as part of a formal assessment. Then we see that today there are a number of problems in which, in order to tackle them, we have to tackle shortcomings in the way the rating scale works or at least are interpreted and shortcomings in the national testing system. There I got a number of concrete questions from Linus Sköld. When it comes to evaluating the grade scale, there is a rather interesting discussion between teachers about how they have understood the material available. It is easy to note that the main problem with the new rating system was how it was introduced. It was squeezed through very quickly in Swedish schools in a way that made those who were going to score poor opportunities to first familiarize themselves with the system, discuss through an internship and develop a professional, common approach within the entire teaching staff and among the principals of the grading system. This also means that the grade scale is interpreted quite differently. One problem that has arisen in some places is that one has understood that one should break down the teaching in different stages and that it is these elements that determine a final sum that should be one's grade. If at the beginning of the course you did not really manage things, it has put the opportunity to get a high grade at all. But this is never meant to work, and many teachers do not use it that way either. However, since it is perceived in this way, it is also a task in the evaluation to review the rating scale and course objectives in such a way that you get away from the way you use the rating scale. Of course, you should know more at the end of a course than you knew at the beginning of a course – that's why you train. As far as the national tests are concerned, the point of the study on national tests that will relatively soon be looking at what tests we should have according to the purpose of the tests. Today, a couple of different purposes are expressed with the national tests. On the one hand, they should support a formative assessment, i.e. that you should be able to find shortcomings in the student and shortcomings in the knowledge monitoring that you then want to be able to take action against. On the one hand, they shall support equivalence in the rating. On the other hand, they are sometimes said to serve as trend measurement over time. The last purpose they have never been designed for – the tests change so much every year that they cannot be used as trend measurement. And the first two purposes obviously stand against each other. If you want to find something in the student that you want to make extra efforts for, it is pretty stupid to have the test at the end of the academic year; then you should have it earlier. And especially if it is at the end of the academic year during the last year, how can you put in extra contributions? If, on the other hand, they are meant to create equivalence in the rating, it is interesting where they lie, but then perhaps they would be constructed in a slightly different way. That is what the national test investigation is now putting its teeth into, and I hope to get a good and well thought-out proposal.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-231	Mr President, I would like to I think it is wonderful to discuss these issues in depth with the Minister for Education. As I mentioned, I think that this debate all too often stops at the surface. I agree that grades and test results can be used with formative approaches. Then I think there's a risk with that kind of rating. I would like to test whether the Minister for Education shares that analysis, and I will then come to a few questions at the conclusion. So the risk is the figure, or the grade, in itself. If I have a long statement about what the Minister of Education did well in his speech and what he could have done better and then concludes by putting a C because it is quite imminent that the Minister of Education does not take along the nuances relating to what the Minister of Education suggested that students could do. What the Minister of Education brings is the 15 points that this C renders. This simplicity in grade and test results feedback makes it happy to be used to describe the entire quality of a school or to describe a student's entire knowledge development. It is not nearly sufficiently nuanced. Behind these figures are complex processes and almost endless nuances. A student can be excellent at writing fictional texts but have more difficulty reproducing the facts in a transparent and logical way in written presentation, and a student can be good at writing Spanish but worse at speaking Spanish and so on. Through the knowledge requirements, this is still weighed together into a grade that becomes a figure that is then used to calculate an average. And the average merit is somehow the measure of how good a school is. This is easily accessible to the media, students and parents. It often renders some criticism that is on the surface, as the Minister knows. The state must dare to take the lead in this context and shift its focus, and if you want the tests to be used in a formative manner, the summative part is certainly an important part, but a complement to the formal assessment and the formal use. There is an imminent risk that this figure or grade for the student and to some extent for the business will be the one that drives the work. I think that a grade is a worse way to motivate students to school work than to experience that they develop, get the joy that they get to grow and get the satisfaction that it gives to make progress and overcome difficulties. That seems to me to be a much better motivation. Doesn't the Minister of Education think so, too? Actually, I have two questions. Is summative assessments a good motive for students to study, and does the Minister share my problem description of summative assessments as a measure of development?
i-6884d88a2c41040a-240	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your intervention. No, overall assessments are not a good goal to work from outside the school. You should work on the basis that learning itself has a value and that the more you learn, the richer you get, not on the basis of what absolute number you get. It is important that the number or letter, test results and grades, become part of this goal and not the goal itself. I share the problem description. Linus Sköld divides the problem description into two different parts. This includes the problem description when the overall grade at a school is seen as the result for that school, i.e. when you do not weigh in under what conditions the school works or what progression the school has. There we must, especially in such a marketed school reality as we have in Sweden, break the belief that one can describe how good a school is only based on what grades the students have received together. It is of course about what conditions the students had, what time the teachers got with the students and what progress the school has. A school that has students who receive much other teaching directly from home or who have many students who come to school and can read from the first class has completely different conditions than a school where you have to work in a completely different way and have much more time for each student. Then it must also be taken into account. When it comes to the problem of the grade being the only description and goal of a student, if we take it down at the individual level, I see exactly the problem description that Linus Sköld does. I think there are two things we can do to get to it. One obvious thing is to make sure that teachers have enough time with their students. It is through time and through relationship building that one can create a whole in learning that is larger than that last letter in the final grade. That is when you can discuss it and can find ways forward to ensure that the grade is taken down in its entirety if you see the learning as a whole. This time teachers must include students. That is why much of the government's policy is about investments that should give teachers more time for their job and more time with their students. Another factor connected with this is that in recent years there have been changes in the education system that have led to fewer and fewer ways into higher education in particular, i.e. other roads than through a high grade from upper secondary school. As a result, the individual value of the grade for the student becomes so much greater when you don't have the same opportunity to read a grade on komvux anymore, when there are no longer rules to take advantage of work experience when you apply for a higher education, when the university exam fills only a small part and when the folk high schools for many years did not get enough places on the general line. This means that the grade becomes so much more important for the student. Then it is sometimes difficult to put grades in relation to other things. Therefore, I believe that the most important thing we can do to overcome the problem highlighted by Linus Sköld is to ensure, alongside more time for teachers, that there are different ways into higher education. We must again start to cherish and value the crooked education journey, so that even those who do not get the highest grade in high school may become a prominent business leader, innovator or engineer with high education, but where the journey has taken a different path from the straight one through high grades from high school.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-245	Mr President, I would like to It would have been interesting to discuss the crooked educational journey. But I think it will have to be a very own interpellation debate if the Minister for Education is to be able to explain it in its entirety. Perhaps, though, we can get an example of what this might look like in the future. I would like to highlight another problem that I see with a summative assessment, because it is this theme that we have. It's about the stigma that it can mean getting this receipt of how good or bad you are. If I get an F in English, and it gives me the self-image as ignorant in English, and if I get an A in textile craft, and it gives me the self-image as a knowledgeable in textile craft, the risk is that I would rather devote my time to textile handicraft than English rather imminent even if the reverse relationship might prevail. I think that the Minister for Education has just presented some answers to this problem as well. But I still think this is worth bringing forward. To conclude, I would like to ask the Minister for Education, as our main political representative in the field of education policy, to speak in this way about grades and assessments in the future. It has been lacking in the media and in the political dialogue. Perhaps in the future, government or national representatives should communicate about grades and tests as important complements to other assessments, but to complement them. I'm afraid it will have negative consequences if grades and test results continue to be the main focus. I am very pleased with this interpellation debate.
i-6884d88a2c41040a-250	Mr President, I would like to What Linus Sköld lands in is what is the basis for all learning, namely the right to do wrong. When you try out and do wrong, you also find solutions that ultimately mean learning. This is often how you work at universities, in science and during laboratory work. If you have an oversummative assessment, we teach students from an early age that they should be afraid to do things where they risk doing wrong because they cannot yet. Then we'll end up all wrong. That is why a formal assessment is needed. That is also why we have opposed grades at an even lower age. We know from the research that this effect will be stronger and stronger. The younger the child, the harder it is to distinguish the rating from other feedback. I think that the crooked training journey is linked to this. It is by putting the grades in a context– which is a way, but not the only way forward– that you create the opportunity for dialogue between teachers and students where the grades can be put in context and made into the relative goals that they are in a young person's life. What do we do to protect the crooked education journey? Well, we're adding more places in folk high schools. We are introducing the right to Komvux – the biggest adult education reform in many years – that Aida Hadzialic has presented. We also create different ways into equal education. In this way, we make sure that grades are important. It is good that there is a way forward that is not just based on an individual test. There will also be an assessment of knowledge and skills over a longer period of time. But that is not the only important thing, but there should be opportunities and different paths to knowledge.
