i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-5	Madam President, I would like Åsa Coenraads has asked if I intend to work for a viable license hunt in 2016. She has also asked how I intend to maintain confidence in Swedish wolf policy when the government comes with a dual message. Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked how I intend to act in order for the 2016 license hunt to take place and so that it will not be delayed and prevented by extensive appeals in the future. Since the two amendments deal in part with the same question, I am answering them in a context. I do not believe that the government is sending a double message. Decisions on the licensing and protection of wolves are taken by the responsible authorities. In October 2014, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency delegated the right to decide on the hunting of wolves to the county administrative boards in the central predator management area. As regards the 2016 licence hunt, the county boards concerned have decided that a total of 46 wolves may be convicted. 20 wolves may be felled in Värmland County, including six in a territory on the border between Värmland County and Örebro County, as well as six in Västmanland County and Gävleborg County respectively, and eight wolves in Dalarna County. I have confidence in the responsible authorities. As you probably know, the 2016 license hunt is now completed in Gävleborg County and Dalarna County, and several wolves have been convicted. The hunt in Värmland County, Västmanland County and Örebro County is suspended until further notice by the court. On 18 December 2015, the Supreme Administrative Court took a decision on a decision on the hunting of wolves by a county administrative board and has subsequently been appealed to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, although the hunting regulation does not allow for an appeal. The Supreme Administrative Court has found that the prohibition of appeals in the Hunting Regulation is contrary to EU law, in so far as it concerns decisions on hunting for a species protected by the Species and Habitats Directive. The Hunting Regulation will be amended this winter in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-7	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I wrote the interpellation just before Christmas, on a very strange day. First, the Minister for Rural Development went out and informed that there would be a hunting of wolves in 2016, and only two hours later the Minister for the Environment went out and said that the same decision could be appealed. I chose to raise the issue of licensing even then, because I was concerned that the situation would be just as it has now become. In my county of Västmanland, the hunting of wolves is now delayed. There does not look to be any hunting at all this year. We know from experience that appeals take a long time, and the time for hunting wolf is soon over. Unfortunately, the Minister leaves many of my questions unanswered. Therefore, given the length of the answer, there is reason to deepen this discussion somewhat. There are two parliamentary decisions on the regional management of our predators. One is from 2008/ 09, and one is from 2012/ 13. The present government has not made any proposals other than these to the Riksdag. I therefore assume that the decisions taken in this House still apply. They mean that predatory decisions should be taken closer to the people they touch, and wildlife management delegations should have increased influence over local administration in the process. During the 2013 parliamentary debate, the then representative of the Social Democrats said that they welcomed increased influence over the predatory debate. Only in a debate in the 2014 election campaign did Prime Minister Stefan Löfven say that it will be possible to conduct a licence and protection hunt on wolf. After this, I have heard the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for the Environment – who is now part of the same government – fight openly in both national newspapers and radio if hunting for wolf is allowed at all. Soon a year ago, the Minister for Rural Development and the Minister for the Environment wrote a debate article in which they announced that the wildlife management delegations would be reviewed. Since then, there has been silence on the issue of the missions of game management missions. The only reasonable analysis can be drawn from this is that the Social Democrats have given way to the policy of the Green Party and that it is now the Green Party that is in charge of Swedish game management. The question of wolf engages and worries people living in our most frequent areas. We have a steadily increasing wolf tribe in Sweden, a tribe that we cannot now manage locally. It is a tribe that the Environmental Party decides over, sitting in the gallery in Stockholm. We see entrepreneurs slowly closing down their activities in predatory villages after entrepreneurs, and how rural areas are being depopulated even more, because of the government's inability to get along. I think the Minister is unclear in his reply. He also does not respond to how he and the government will work for a viable license hunt in 2016. I therefore ask my questions one more time and hope for more concrete answers from the Minister. How does the Government intend to work for a viable license hunt in 2016 in all counties that were designated from the beginning? How does the Government intend to maintain confidence in Swedish wolf policy?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-19	Madam President, I would like I should like to thank the Minister for Rural Development for his reply to my int erpellation, although the answer was a long time ago. The idea is that interpellations should be answered within two weeks. It is now two months since I submitted my interpellation. So the answer has gone over the recommended time considerably. In this current and for many very important questions it is a little bit boring, because the interpellation was written when the decisions about the wolf hunt came from the county boards, and now the hunt for wolf has been underway for almost three weeks. Rather, it would have been running in Värmland, Örebro and Västmanland. However, no information has yet been received on the hunting of wolves, since the decisions have been appealed. And the wolf hunt should be completed by February 15th. I asked this question to the Minister when, given the discussions that had taken place and what I could have followed in the media, I was concerned by the government's unclear but also, to say the least, double message, as my colleague Åsa Coenraads was also talking about. In his reply, the Minister does not think that the government has different messages, but you do not have to dig very deep into the archives to find posts with deeply divided views on the issue between Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and Åsa Romson, that is, the Social Democrats on the one hand and the Green Party on the other. It is only to be regretted that Mr Romson has so clearly run over the Minister for Rural Development and that he has unfortunately laid flat. It is clear that it is the Green Party that governs the government's predatory policy and the handling of the wolf issue. It is unfortunate for a government's credibility to spread a message before the elections, fight after the elections and then deliver something completely different from what the biggest party went to elections on. Ensuring the credibility of the current government is not my job, and of course I will not. However, I am concerned about the development that we are currently seeing in Swedish predatory policy. The Alliance government ensured that power and influence over predatory policy were transferred to the regional level, so that decisions were taken as close as possible to those concerned and also where the greatest competence is available. Madam President, I would like That is why the Alliance Government proposed the establishment of a hunting authority, which was decided by the Parliament last year and announced the government. On 10 December 2013, the Swedish Parliament also decided on a predator's bill, which included that the wolf's reference value for a favourable conservation status for the population in Sweden, based on Skandulv's report of the minimum viable population of 100 individuals, should be 170 – 270 individuals and that the wolf tribe's concentration should be reduced where it is most dense. We do not know exactly, but today the number of wolves is estimated to be at least 460 wolves in Sweden. There are more than twice as many as the Riksdag has decided. About half of these wolves are in my home country, Värmland. But nothing has happened on the part of the government. One might therefore wonder whether the government at all considers the Riksdag's decision to be worth something. After all, the Parliament is Sweden's highest decision-making political body. It worries me in the short term that the hunt is now standing still and that we have a growing wolf population. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Rural Affairs some further questions:
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-30	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for the answer to the interpellation! Thank you too, Åsa Coenraads and Christian Holm, for taking the initiative in this debate. However, I wonder whether the Moderates realise that the wolf is protected by the Species and Habitats Directive. So it is an EU directive, and it makes the wolf have a special protection status. This also applies to rules other than for other game hunting. Otherwise, the Moderates will always, in all contexts, have a European policy that the EU will decide on and that we will not have national rules. But here you depart from this and think that Sweden should decide for itself, even though we have a species that is protected by the Species and Habitats Directive. Just before Christmas, I was in an interpellation debate initiated by your party colleague Ulf Berg when we were just discussing the appeal process. Ulf Berg then said that if the court finds that we are violating EU law in terms of the nature of the appeal process, then we will have to make the case according to the situation. After that, the courts concluded that it is not consistent with the case-law that decisions on wolf hunting cannot be appealed to a court of law. And now we're there. I don't think anyone in here wants us politicians to be in charge of the courts. I would like to know how the Moderates view that we politicians should decide on court decisions.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-35	Madam President, I would like First of all, I wish to express my regret, Christian Barenfeld, that the interpellation was answered late. On the other hand, we have recently gained new knowledge that is very valuable to me and the government. We know that the highest judicial body, the Supreme Administrative Court, rejects the regulation put in place by the Alliance Government. It is a little strange that the Moderates are questioning the expertise here today. The fact that the alliance government was so careless and did not ensure legal certainty when introducing a new regulation is remarkable. It also established a level of favourable conservation status of 170 – 270 wolves without having a deeper scientific analysis behind it. That, in itself, can also be considered a little remarkable. This has led to disorder in the hunt for wolf. There has been disorder in these matters throughout the entire reign of the alliance government. Just look at the history: interrupted hunts, appeals and more. This has now been inherited by this government. We inherited the disorder in these questions that was raised in the hunting regulation. It is now a matter of restoring confidence in wolf policy in Sweden, and that is the Government's ambition. There I and Minister for the Environment Åsa Romson are in complete agreement. It's supposed to be order and order. It shall be clear how the appeal proceedings are to be handled. Then you really have to listen to the highest body of expertise that we have on these issues, the Supreme Administrative Court. We will put a new regulation in place that is legally secure. Two deep scientific reports have also been produced which have been compiled independently of each other, one Swedish and one American. They have concluded that a favourable conservation status is 300 wolves with an immigrant individual every five years in order to maintain genetics. At the last count there were 415 wolves, thus considerably more than these scientific studies have shown. In the last five years, there have been two immigrant individuals who also fulfill genetics. The wolf hunt has started and even ended in Dalarna and Gävleborg. On the other hand, it is blocked by courts in some parts of the country, and as a minister I am not going into legal proceedings. Then I am convinced that both Coenraads and Holm Barenfeld would report me to KU immediately. So you can't fool me into that. But I promise you one thing. There's gonna be order and order. The Alliance government caused a mess, and people in the countryside live with it all the time, not least in Värmland.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-41	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, but I regret that I have still not received an answer to my questions. Will there be any hunt for wolf this year, or how does the Minister intend to maintain confidence in Swedish predatory policy? The Minister has a tendency to stay around the appeal process instead of finding solutions for Swedish predatory policy in the future. I have the greatest respect for the fact that judicial proceedings need to take their course, but right now the government is hiding behind the Supreme Administrative Court without making any progress on the matter. That is regrettable for a number of reasons. How does the Minister intend to maintain the level set by Parliament in the future, a wolf tribe of 170 – 270 individuals? Let us assume that the Supreme Administrative Court continues to do as they have begun to do now, that is to say that we do not get any hunting of wolves. How, then, does the government intend to proceed to follow Parliament's established decisions on the level of the wolf tribe? How does the government and, above all, the Minister for Rural Development intend to explain to people around our country, especially in our most predatory areas, that we should still be able to live, live and work in the countryside, farm animals and hunt with stray dogs, which we have a long tradition of in this country? Or is it that it is the Green Party that is in charge in the government of rural policy and predatory policy, when our countryside is slowly depopulated and growing again? There should be order in Swedish legislation, but we must have politicians who dare to make tough decisions and come up with new proposals on how to proceed on this issue.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-45	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, my concern for both this year's and the coming year's wolf hunt is justified. A large part of this year's wolf hunt is already over. Most of it, as the Minister also said, is stopped by court and delayed. The hunting season is fast approaching the end point, and that is regrettable. Of course we should listen to our courts. We've been clear about that. On that basis, we will have to decide later. When you take note of the many different statements made by our ministers in the media and in this House, it becomes clear that there is a confusion in the Government Office. I think it is important that we tell them, because it may be someone who reads the minutes of the Riksdag at a later date. We also have visitors in the gallery, and there are listeners and viewers who take part in the debate on the web or television. The issue is sensitive. During an on-going interview in November, a Member present in this House today, Isak From, informed me at the moment that I received a text saying that we should not say anything but only refer to the Government Office. ..................................................... We have then learned that the Minister for Rural Development himself stated that predatory policy lies with the Minister for the Environment and that the responsibility for hunting matters lies with him, who has a completely different view from Åsa Romson on this. The Minister for Rural Development has said: Yes, of course I have respect for the fact that she has a different view of it. But our decision, our handling, is based on what I say, on Parliament's decision. We have no reason to question the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's decision today to delegate this to the county administrative boards. It is based on facts and legislation and on E U's Species and Habitats Directive. It therefore seems rather strange when the same rural minister stands here in the speaker's chair and says that there are no different views within the government. There have been more interviews that have clearly shown that in different ways you have to comply with that it is more than one party in the government. I have a whole series of examples. I would almost be able to translate a whole paper mill into printouts if I were to print out all the statements that show that the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Rural Development have completely different views on this issue. There are judicial authorities, and Parliament and politics exist. Of course they should go hand in hand. We'll follow the law. But the government must also be able to point, point the way and say what you want. It is not possible to get a message from the government about what you really want and who is in charge. Right now I feel that there is a Romson effect. It feels like Åsa Romson is the leader of hunting and predatory issues in Swedish politics. How, then, are we to act in the future? What does the Government intend to do, given that it still wants this to be possible to appeal? Long before the Supreme Administrative Court made its decision, both the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for the Environment said that they want the decisions to be appealed in court. Now we are there, and this is likely to happen again in the autumn. How, then, are we to ensure that this is a fast process? There is a risk that there will be an obstruction in various appeal bodies every year, that the hunt will be delayed so that it cannot be carried out. How will the Minister for Rural Development ensure that the process is speeded up, that decisions come quickly and that we can hunt for wolves in the future at all?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-53	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the debate, it is clear that the most important purpose of the Moderates is not to clarify the issue but to sow a split in the government. The wolf belongs to the Species and Habitats Directive, which is under the protection of nature and under the auspices of the Minister for Climate and the Environment. Hunting is under the responsibility of the Minister for Rural Affairs. There are therefore two ministers who share this. We've got a mess. As the Minister said, we inherited it. Former governments have taken decisions that were not compatible with EU law or case law. This government now has to clarify this. But no one is valiant because it gets fast and wrong. There have been investigations that we have set up. It is now necessary to put them into practice and use them to move on with the wolf issue. At this point, after a decision that came just before Christmas, to think that you could have a solution in place today would be very wrong. However, we must ensure that we have worked out solutions and have them in place. Everyone is the valet of us solving this. The issue needs to be resolved – for the sake of the wolf, for the people living in the countryside and for us to move forward and ensure that we have a favourable conservation status for the wolf and that we can live together with the wolf.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-57	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Bucht for his reply on predatory policy. I would also like to say that it is a pleasure that Christian Holm Barenfeld has also been involved in the wolf issue. Animal policy, especially wolf policy, has been following me for many years, especially as former municipal councillor in Hagfors municipality, which is one of the widest municipalities in the country. I have closely followed and been involved in this matter. It affects many people in different ways. The issue is handled and prepared not only by hunters, but equally by the industry, such as the sheep industry. Unfortunately, domestic dogs, companion dogs, have also been taken when they were out for a walk in the woods. However, I get a little wonderful when I hear the lack of humility in the matter, in front of all the t from Christian Holm Barenfeld but also from Åsa Coenraads. In 2006, when the alliance government took office, we had about 50 wolves in the country. In 2014, when the alliance government resigned, we had 400 wolves in the country. The handling of the issue has been non-existent for eight years. It is therefore exciting to have such high hopes that our government will get started quickly. It is very boring that the basis for the decision on the current predator bill was so poorly substantiated, just as Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says. I remember very well that many people were already warning about the consequences of the lack of legal certainty. I would like to ask both Christian Holm Barenfeld and Åsa Coenraads: What possibilities for appeal do you think there should be in a rule of law? How do you think the issue should be dealt with? I think that the government should now produce a process and a proposal that makes this circus possible. We had a stop for wolf hunting in 2014. Do you remember that? This was not the present government's fault, but rather the then government. It was a stop at night for those who were going out hunting the next day. I have a question for you, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. How do you envisage the legal process, and how do you intend to proceed with that question? What does it mean that the hunting regulation will be amended according to the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court? How does the government intend to move forward on this issue? This is an important issue that we must deal with quickly and effectively, especially in those counties that have a lot of wolf. I can tell you that we have all been a little cooks in the soup. We need a workshop. It is most important to the people and to gain credibility again.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-64	Madam President, I would like Thank you, the rural minister and the interpellants, and a special thanks to Christian Holm Barenfeld for apostrophising me and getting me up in the debate. Perhaps it is important to make a few clarifications. As Mikael Dahlqvist says here, the Alliance government did the job and carried out the measures that were the main driving forces to increase biodiversity and get the wolf into the Swedish fauna. It is during the years of the alliance government that the growth of the stock of wolves and also the other large predators has occurred at a very strong rate. It is important that we make it clear here that the wolf hunt was inhibited in 2012, 2013, 2014 and even 2015 despite the fact that the alliance government had presented a bill that would solve all the concerns. I should like to say that we Social Democrats believed that very much. We thought it could be a way forward in many ways. Unfortunately, it turned out that the Alliance government had not done the job. I would like to state clearly in this House to all the speakers that we Social Democrats stand by Swedish hunting legislation. We will have the opportunity for county boards to make decisions on the hunting of wolves and other predators when appropriate. We forget we have other predators. We forget that there are other industries that coexist. There is an indigenous people who are also affected by this. I would also like to state clearly that the Supreme Administrative Court has taken the decision. It is important that the government carefully analyses how we should proceed in order to get some order on the matter. It was in this House that Ulf Berg and I had a debate before Christmas. Ulf Berg made it quite clear that we must comply with what the legal bodies say. Now the Supreme Administrative Court has said its thing, and we have to deal with it. It is important that the government makes a sustainable proposal. How can this be appealed? How can this be decided as a matter of urgency? It is very important that we keep to the basic idea that the county boards should be able to make decisions. It should be possible to delegate it from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Then it may have to be another instance. It's not sustainable as it is now. It has become a circus with four different administrative courts with four different interpretations. Nor is it worthy of the rule of law. It is also very difficult to explain to the population in the country how six different judicial authorities can have six different answers to a question. There I welcome the work of the government.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-71	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld says: I'm worried, will it be hunting or not? I share that concern. I know a lot of people out in the countryside are worried about that. But there is someone who has caused the disorder and made sure that a regulation does not comply with the law. That's why it's been such a disorder for a lot of years. This is something that the new government has inherited. I would like to start from a Bible quote, Christian Holm Barenfeld, and say: Don't see the grande in the other's eye when you don't see the beam in your own! It is not this government that has put the regulation in place. It is not this government that has caused disorder in this. Åsa Coenraads asks: Will there be a hunt this year? It is a legal process, and a minister or government does not enter into that legal process. It is dealt with in the legal order we have in this country. That's what we're going to follow, nothing else. Åsa Coenraads says: The Government is hiding behind the Supreme Administrative Court. The Government respects the Supreme Administrative Court's ruling. That is the highest legal expertise we have in this area. But apparently it is something that the Moderates question. How should we react to what the Riksdag said about 170 – 270 wolves as favourable conservation status, Åsa Coenraads asks? Following that decision, the responsible authority established the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that 270 wolves would be a favourable conservation status. Then there have been two scientific studies. They have come to different results independently of each other. Now Gybs is set at 300 wolves. I also respect science and scientific analysis, Åsa Coenraads. My question is, do the Moderates respect that? Do they respect the Supreme Administrative Court? It is a question of getting things right so that we can also get hunting. Mikael Dahlqvist asks: What is the process? Yes, it is now a question of getting things straight in Sweden. We can't be like this. This means that we must change the hunting regulation in this area. It's got to be legal. It must follow practice and also be legally secure against EU law. It's about getting the decisions on time. Perhaps they should be treated in one place in order for there to be equal treatment. It will be an urgent procedure so that a possible hunting decision next year can be handled correctly in the same way as in the legal process that we have in Sweden in other areas. This must also be the case in this area. The Alliance's disarray is over, and what you've done with the wolf hunt is over.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-77	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I am a little concerned about the rural minister's breast tones in the debate. The Minister for Rural Development makes it a much bigger question than it would have to be. Had we not had an alliance government that took hold of Swedish predatory policy and put forward a policy that allowed license hunting, we would probably have had even more wolves than we have today. If the Minister for Rural Development now believes that the policy of the Alliance Government was so bad and caused so much disorder in our country, it is very surprising to me that in a year and a half the Minister has not put forward a single proposal in this House to remedy the disorder that he thinks the Alliance Government created. The Species and Habitats Directive is important. It is, as Mr Norén says, under the Minister for the Environment. But she has also not made any concrete proposals to overcome the wolf problem we now have in Sweden. Rather, the Minister for the Environment has said that she does not want either a licence or a protection hunt in Sweden. Do not let the wolf issue become a divide between city and country! With the new science that has come, and for which I have the greatest respect, there is a Gybs of 300 individuals. So, based on what we have in the wolf tribe today, there are 150 individuals more than Gybs says. What does the Minister intend to do with this? I ask the Minister to address this issue and not to allow the Green Party to decide that the countryside should be a museum for urban dwellers.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-82	Madam President, I would like I share everything that my colleague, Åsa Coenraads, said in her previous speech. Many contributions are made, and I am not sure that those who listen to the debate at all times feel that they are getting clear messages and clear messages from the government. When Mikael Dahlqvist was up, it almost seemed that the Alliance government and the Alliance would have raised wolves. That is not the case. On the other hand, the wolves became more numerous. The Alliance government acted. It was the alliance government and parliament that decided on both protection and licensing. It is in no way the Green Party, the Left and the Social Democrats that have pushed for a responsible predatory policy in Sweden that there is popular trust and acceptance for. To clarify: The Moderates and the Alliance want to hunt for wolf according to the decisions that have been made. This was not supported by Mikael Dahlqvist's comrades. The environmental party and Åsa Romson are clear and honest on the matter. The problem is that they clearly say that they do not want a hunt. The biggest problem with this is that it is Åsa Romson who is the captain of the government hunting ship today. It is only to be noted that the issue is sensitive and difficult. It's breaking up the government. You could stand here all day and read quotes from both the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for the Environment. However, I would like to mention the final sentence I mentioned earlier from an interview with the Minister on Swedish Radio. His message is that he wants a licence hunt according to Parliament's decision and that this is based on facts, legislation and the EU's directive on species and habitats. I think it is clear, and I hope that the Minister will continue to work to ensure that we can hunt for wolves in Sweden.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-86	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Christian Holm Barenfeld says that I am suggesting that the Alliance Government should have raised wolves. I only noted in my last speech that in the years 2006 – 2014, i.e. eight years' time, the tribe had increased from 50 to 400 animals, Christian Holm Barenfeld. I also note that during this time I was the municipal councillor in Hagfors municipality, which was the most densely populated municipality in the country, and I saw no result whatsoever. It started to move a little bit, I will say in all honesty, in 2013 and 2014 when the proposal later came forward and was adopted by the Riksdag. But I know that many, including the Hunters' Association, already said then that this will not be legal in the appeal process. I think we should be a little humble in this House and note that the issue is not well dealt with and that we need to get clarity quickly. That is why I welcome Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht's initiative and the government's initiative to clean up after the alliance government and get the legal process in order. Those who are affected are not us standing here, but just as someone said, they are the ones who live in rural and rural areas and who cannot engage in their hobby or their nutrition. They are very frustrated by the step being taken and the inhibition that has taken place annually. I think the most important thing now is that we look forward and try to get a process where we secure the law. I am pleased with the answer that our Minister has given us today.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-90	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. There is much to do in this area. Åsa Coenraads is in the speaker's chair talking about wedges between town and country. The issue of predatory animals can be one such issue where there are differences in conditions between the city and the country. Then it is important that you do not stand and kick in this wedge. Right now, several of the alliance representatives have template articles that they send around to our newspapers where the wolf issue appears to be the sole and most important issue for rural areas. We Social Democrats know that broadband expansion, roads, infrastructure, education issues, conditions for companies and so on are also important for the whole of the countryside and the whole of Sweden. But, of course, the issue of the management of our wild animals is also very important. For the Social Democrats, licence hunting is a tool that you should and can use to create order and order. We shall continue to do so, but now we shall first ensure that we get the legal circus in order.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-94	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld is trying to give a picture that the government does not want hunting. I would like to inform him that he can look at the licence hunt during the time it has been conducted in Sweden. During your eight years, 50 wolves were shot in a licence hunt. During our time, 57 wolves have been shot for a year and a half. There is reason for reflection. When taking office as a new government, it is assumed that it has nevertheless ensured legal certainty in regulations in the past. Unfortunately, this was not the case this time in the regulation put in place by the Alliance Government. That's why we have to change it. As a child, I was taught not to shout wolf if it is not there. The wolf stirs up a lot of emotions, and there are many who cry wolf. There is a good reason for this – to protect sheep, cows and dogs. This is a matter of security for many people. Another reason may be that you want to preserve a rich natural life, where the wolf is a natural part of our Swedish fauna. During my time as a rural minister, I have lived with the wolf almost daily in my work. It is important that the wolf's survival is ensured. I also live in a district where the wolf wanders from Finland to Sweden to get a favorable conservation plus status. I live in the Torne Valley, right on the border. The government takes conservation, wildlife conservation and predatory issues very seriously. That is why it is a question of getting things right. We have used science and legal experts, and I thank these good people for doing this. Now, when you cry wolf, you're going to get things sorted out. You have to know what you're doing.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-99	Madam President, I would like Anders Forsberg has asked me what I intend to do to ensure the survival of the Swedish eel fishermen and the unique älla culture. Council Regulation (EC) No 1100/ 2007 of 27 September 2007 laying down measures for the recovery of the stock of European eel sets out the framework and objectives for the eel management of the Member States. The overall objective of the regulation is to achieve in the long term an emigration of spawning white eel to the sea which represents 40% of what a man-made completely unaffected stock would have produced. The advice provided by ICES (International Council for the Exploration of the Sea) has served as the basis for the current objectives. It is up to the Member States to achieve the objective in different ways by establishing and implementing management plans. The main objective of the Swedish eel management plan is to dimension measures so that we reverse stock development from declining to increasing recruitment if measures are implemented to the same extent across Europe. In order to achieve the desired effect, the management plan consists of four main areas of action: restrictions on fishing, improved migration opportunities for blank eel, support for eel and control measures. As regards restrictions on fishing, the objective of the Swedish management plan has been to reduce eel catches by about 50% from the adoption of the regulation in 2007 to 2013. In order to achieve this objective, extensive regulation of fisheries is under way. The regulation includes a general ban on fishing for eel in Sweden from 2007. Some fishermen who fish under special permits in the Baltic Sea and inland waters are exempted from the ban on fishing and selling eel. Only those who currently have and use a permit can be granted an extended permit. On the west coast, all fishing was banned in 2012. ICES considers that the status of the European eel remains critical. It will also take time for the stock to recover to target levels. Ålarvet on the Åla coast has recently been included in the Institute for Languages and the list of examples of intangible cultural heritage in Sweden. The cultural heritage of the Åla coast is preserved and passed on in the area through organisations that disseminate knowledge of the traditions and create interest in different aspects of the heritage. At work, the balance between the desire to preserve eel fishing as a professional activity and the desire to further protect the species is important. The survival of the unique eel culture is, of course, dependent on the eel remaining. CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) is an international agreement that regulates international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora that are at risk of extinction due to this trade. Since 2009, the eel is listed in Annex II to the Convention. The background to the listing is that international trade affected the eel population so much that it was estimated that trade needed to be regulated and monitored in order not to risk exterminating it. Sweden was the country that initiated the CITES listing of European eel. Furthermore, since 2010, imports and exports to or from the EU of live eel and products of eel, such as frozen or smoked eel, are prohibited. All in all, it is therefore important that the management and therefore the fishing of eel, which is a threatened species, remain very restrictive and adapted to the advice of research.
i-VLMZkVm6Mf171rTghiqAZc	Madam President, I would like Let me first quote an article in Svenska Dagbladet from 27 June 2015. A busy season is about to start for a dying breed of entrepreneurs. Olle Robertsson is 67 years old and has made a living as an eel fisherman all his life. Before him, his relatives did the same thing. For five generations the business has been going on in the family. But soon it will be over. – – – Almost half of Sweden's eel fishermen have passed retirement age. It's hard. It's almost like I want to cry sometimes. That five generations have built something, with boats and everything, and it all disappears. It's never coming back again. Just tear it up and clean it up. I feel terrible being the last generation. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Today there are over 230 eel fishermen in Sweden. 170 of them fish in the sea and the rest in fresh water. Only those who have fished the previous season get a new permit. For example, should Olle Robertsson choose to refrain from fishing for a single season, it is exhausted for him forever. No new eel fishermen are allowed and no generational shifts are possible. The average age of those holding the eel fishing permits is now high. Almost half of them have passed retirement age and the number of permits and fishermen is falling each year. The general ban on eel fishing came in 2007. The reason, as has been mentioned earlier, was that the eel stock had fallen sharply since the 1970s. The EU then adopted a horizontal regulation, and each Member State had to draw up its own national management plans on the basis of their different circumstances. In Sweden, many wanted to ban eel fishing completely, but instead there was some kind of compromise. Some fishermen were allowed to continue fishing eel with special permits. In addition, a requirement was introduced to ensure that the permit was actually used to renew the next season, which in practice also meant a total stop against new start-ups. If you didn't use an eel fishing permit, you couldn't get one either. In 2012, an additional decision was taken, when eel fishing on the west coast was totally banned. About a hundred eel fishermen had to shut down their activities without compensation. It can be noted that the Minister mentions that a great deal of measures have been taken to reduce the mortality of hydroelectric power plants and increase control. The eel fishermen also take action themselves by using the so-called Ålfonden as a means of laying juveniles. It can also be seen that developments are taking place. The eel that is mainly fished in Sweden is a blank eel. It has lived in streams or on the coasts here for 15 to 25 years before being caught on its return to the Sargasso Sea, where it will play and reproduce. SLU, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, is following the development of the eel and can report that during four consecutive seasons there has been a hike with more small eels and glass eels in our Swedish rivers. Similar signals come from most countries. It is important that we in the EU have a common understanding and common objectives in terms of eel fishing and eel survival. But how can it be that an eel raised by Swedish fishermen must be at least 70 cm long, while 38 cm is enough for their colleagues in Denmark? The Baltic Sea is an inland sea with an inlet and outlet that we share with Denmark, and what the Swedish fishermen are not allowed to fish takes the Danes instead. What kind of consensus is this? What does the Minister for Rural Affairs think?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-117	Madam President, I would like Anders Forsberg quoted an eel fisherman in Svenska Dagbladet. Soon it will be over and the cow will never return again, said the fisherman. I am in favour of the fishermen who are affected, because it is clear that it affects the situation when these kinds of restrictions are imposed. But I do not agree that it will never come back. The point of these restrictions is that the eel should actually come back. That is the whole ambition, because the eel stock is very seriously threatened. That is why these measures have been taken not only in Sweden but in all these countries. There are management plans, and they are slightly different, but they are all approved by the Commission. In addition, one country has a total ban on eel fishing, namely Ireland. So there are countries that have gone even further than Sweden. That's how serious the situation is. It is true that we got an improved situation and the number of eels went up slightly, as can be seen in the statistics for 2012 – 2014. But unfortunately it turned back in the statistics for 2015. Then it was back at the 2013 level. The Maritime and Water Authority submitted a report to the Government Office at the beginning of December, and we are analysing it before taking any action. There is a lot of solid science on these issues. The data comes from Ice's. Then, of course, there may still be shortcomings, but it is clear that the eel is seriously threatened. The regulations are for the eel to come back. Then we know that the eel's life cycle is long, and it may take a very long time before the eel population recovers. But we should not risk what Anders Forsberg says about the fish never coming back to life. It'll come back if we do the right things.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-120	Madam President, I would like What now prevails in practice is some form of business ban, although that applies to all others who want to start a business. The Minister for Rural Development mentioned the intangible cultural heritage. Of course, eel is important in order to be able to fish eel, but if there are no eel fishermen left there is no knowledge. Knowledge cannot be learned or acquired in theory. That knowledge is found in the eel fish. This is where a whole generation disappears. Very well! A new eel management plan will be drawn up, and the government with the Green Party will make decisions. Is there a risk that there will even be a total stop for eel fishing? We can think about it. We can also consider that there is a ruling from the Supreme Court on the responsibility of the state when banning salmon fishing in the Torne River. That ban was intended to protect wild salmon. HD concluded that the State was liable to the fishermen for the financial losses caused by a fishing ban. Let us go back to the main arguments that there is a low immigration of glass eel to Sweden and to Europe's coasts. Let's look at the evaluation. It is difficult to make an unambiguous review of the last year. Research needs to develop considerably more. There is interesting information, including from Willem Dekker, researchers at SLU. His study shows that the impact of fishing on the eel stock is about 2%. What other factors affect fishing and eel access to the Baltic Sea? The EU is working to improve the eel stock, as well as the Swedish government, but each Member State decides, through its eel management plan, what measures to take. Sweden has legislated to reduce fishing, but we have not acted very effectively to reduce the amount of other predators on fish and, above all, eel. There are cormorants and seals. This issue needs to be highlighted. We can discuss the rules. The Minister for Rural Development said in his reply that the prerequisite for the survival of the unique eel culture is, of course, that the eel remains. It assumes, as I mentioned at the beginning, that there is a knowledgeable corps of eel fishermen. I find it difficult to see that the conditions laid down in practical and economic terms should maintain the interest so that new young fishermen can take up and pursue the particular profession. Without fishermen, there will be no eel. Without fishermen, there is no eel culture left.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-126	Madam President, I would like Can the eel fishing ban be perceived as a trade ban? I'm sure that's how it can be experienced. I have experienced it myself in the case of salmon. I have experienced when it was largely total ban on salmon fishing in Torne River. It was hard, I can promise you. I've learned something. A tough regulation has made the salmon come back also in Torne River. I know that fishing requires fishermen and gear. The most important ingredient for fishing is that there is fish. That's exactly how it is with the eel, too. It is about ensuring that the eel comes back and that we do not give up. I understand those who are in this situation. Let's give them hope. It was quick to get the salmon back. Unfortunately, however, according to the researchers, it can take up to 80 years for the eel to return to the extent that existed at one time. To preserve cultural heritage, there are organisations working on the issue. On the day the eel returns, it should be able to be fished. I know for myself that although there was a total stop in Torne River we talked to the young people about how the old salmon fishing was conducted. They were not allowed to participate because salmon fishing was prohibited. But now they're in. Cultural heritage was preserved. That's what happens sometimes.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-129	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Can the Minister's answer be interpreted as meaning that a total ban is not the right way to go about eel fishing? The Minister says we should give the fishermen hope. I would like to see a development. What does the minister mean when he says we should give them hope? That signal needs the eel fish. This is not an industry that affects very many professionals, but it has such big side effects around it, especially around the eel coast and the Gulf of Hanö. The number of eel fishermen has fallen by around 70% since 2001. The design of the regulatory framework is designed to ensure that there are no eel fishermen if they continue with the same method. There may be another 10 to 15 years. Then there will be no eel fishermen left. To fish eel today, a special permit issued by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management is required. Only those eel fishermen who were authorised in the previous year may have their permit renewed. Other groups of fishermen, such as fishermen or domestic fishers, must not pick up a single eel. Now let's remember that every eel has the same biological value. It's a value that disappears no matter who catches the eel. But the biological value is not everything. There is also the concept of sustainability. When the biological value is unchanged, whether it is a power plant turbine or a domestic fisherman, a fisherman, such as an eel fisherman, will be a different value. It becomes an economic value, and it guarantees long-term craftsmanship. All knowledge of how eel fishing is conducted, all local ecological knowledge, all social and cultural values as an important part of the eel's value chain, risks disappearing if we do not take action now.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-135	Madam President, I would like There is no total ban in Sweden on eel fishing, although there are very large restrictions. In 2007, over 700 tonnes of eel were landed and in 2014 324 tonnes were landed. It is both fished and landed eel, but the total ban applies to the transfers. If the eel returns, I am convinced that any transfers and restrictions may be reconsidered. There must now be wisdom. Scientific advice must be given. I feel for the fishermen who cannot maintain a tradition. I'm sure it's hard for a lot of them. I promise that if we do the right thing, a bright future will come back. Thank you for a good debate!
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-139	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked me if there is any ambition on my part and on the part of the government to introduce a general military obligation that also includes civilian functions and whether there are any thoughts on my part and on the part of the government that the Swedish Armed Forces should be responsible for having people on standby who can be called in for example to asylum accommodations or as guides. Finally, Mr Wallmark has asked me how the costs associated with the introduction of some form of military and civilian military service are to be dealt with within the framework of today's defence budget with the current orientation decision, which is valid until 2020. Let me begin by stating that civil service is already in place as part of the obligation of total defence and that it is governed by the law of total defence. Total defence obligations are performed as military service, civil service or public service obligations. Compulsory service and civil service include basic training, refresher training, standby and war service. Public service obligations only imply service obligations under increased alertness. The purpose of the obligation of total defence is to meet the need for personnel to solve the tasks of military and civil defence in war. In the same way as for compulsory military training, civil duty has been made conditional on the Government, taking into account the need for Sweden's defence preparedness, making decisions on such matters. The legislation is therefore not abolished but dormant. The civil duty that can be carried out with the support of the Swedish Armed Forces' Total Defence Obligation Act refers to activities that are needed in the Swedish Armed Forces and civil defence or for the Swedish Armed Forces' peacetime preparedness. According to the Total Defence Obligations Act, civil liability must be fulfilled in the activities of the Total Defence that the Government prescribes. The Total Defence Obligation Act does not support any form of public service or similar. The security of personnel in military defence has significant challenges. Against this background, the government has set up an investigation to propose a long-term sustainable supply of personnel for military defence, which continues to be based mainly on voluntary action, but where increased use of total defence obligations complements voluntary action when the needs of the war organisation cannot be secured solely by voluntary recruitment. The investigation thus addresses the specific challenges related to the military defence's need for human resources. In its work, the investigation will gather experience from other countries' personnel supply systems where duty and voluntaryity are mixed, including through studies of the Danish and Norwegian personnel supply systems. Both the socio-economic consequences and the consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces and other relevant authorities of the proposals must be reported. Finally, I can note that the government in the defence policy orientation bill has presented a focus for the defence economy in 2016 until 2020. The directives for the commission report indicate that the framework decided and calculated by the Riksdag for the years 2016 to 2020 is the economic preconditions for the proposals that the investigation is to make.
i-12XsUuNfCuAusjWJ3Trtki	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist! The starting point, Madam President, for the interpellation that I aroused was the People and Defence National Conference in Sälen in Dalafjällen, in Peter Hultqvist's constituency, about two weeks ago. It went a bit through the hall at Högfjällshotellet in Sälen when the Foreign Minister as the first major speaker on Sunday developed his thoughts about some form of military service – a little unclear how and when and exactly what it would look like in the edges. Madam President, I would like Let me return to the subject of Sälenfjällen! They've admitted good slalom slopes. I have to say that in the answer given by the Secretary of Defense, he is graceful and married in a way that should make elite skaters jealous. In practice, he avoids all the issues I list in my interpellation. In no way does he refer to the statements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Sälen – statements that were somewhat unclear as to whether she did as Foreign Minister and thus part of the government in which Peter Hultqvist is sitting or as a private individual. Madam President, I would like The same skill and dignity showed the Minister of Defence in his speech in Sälen on Monday. In that speech, he managed not to mention the word military service once – while the Foreign Minister had spent a great deal of time on that the day before. I would like to remind both the Minister for Defence and everyone following this interpellation debate that Foreign Minister Wallström expressed the view of the need for both military and civilian military service. Amongst other things, the Government noted that I am among those who welcome the reintroduction of a modernised, equal version of military service, with both military and civilian components. What if last autumn we had civilians ready to call in, to the Migration Agency, asylum accommodations and to act as guides? ..................................................... The question has to be asked: who does the Foreign Minister speak for? In the defence minister's response to me, Madam President, there is nothing to do with that. Is it not entirely unwise that, at the time in which we find ourselves, with a deteriorating security situation in the immediate area, we do not really know whether this is a concept of government, a social-democratic conception of the party or merely the private opinion of the Foreign Minister? In the last case, one might consider why she presented it in Sälen. Madam President, I would like It's just like the Secretary of Defense says-- there's a staff supply investigation going on. It is precisely on the basis of voluntary activity. I would like to quote from those directives. It is stated by the government that a special investigator will propose a long-term sustainable supply of military defence personnel, which will continue to be based mainly on voluntary activity. This is important because we need to know what the government wants. I take the defense minister's answer as being the government's line. This investigation has been set up. Volunteering is the basis, and therefore the seeds of thought that the Foreign Minister sowed in Sälen are only her own and private. It is quite serious, Madam President, because she represents the Swedish Government. The Swedish people and the opposition must know what the government thinks, wants and thinks.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-153	Madam President, I would like After all, it was impressive that one would suddenly appear to be graceful and married in this context. But what I have presented in my interpellation response is just the exact truth that it looks like. There I have also presented the investigation carried out under Annika Nordgren Christensen's leadership as a result of the political settlement that Wallmark himself was involved in. I can read you another statement on the investigation directives. Experiences from other countries' human resources systems where duty and voluntary activity are mixed, including studies of Danish and Norwegian human resources systems, should be looked at. It is also a question of early withdrawals in the case of continuously employed soldiers and certain recruitment problems in the case of periodically employed soldiers and a large proportion of conscripts who are war-placed in units but who are not trained. As a result, we cannot release full units and have not followed the pace previously set for full-time and part-time soldiers. These shortcomings have been highlighted within the Swedish Armed Forces, and they make this investigation necessary. This did not foresee the previous government in a reasonable way, even if the then opposition warned against it. That's why the investigation is in place. We also open up to use a duty element in the future, but we will wait and see what the investigation leads to and how this will be organised so that we can value it in a good way. So we agreed on this, and it is now being implemented. With regard to Mrs Wallström's statement, she said in her speech, precisely in the sequence in which she mentioned this, that it was a personal opinion. So that was already evident in her speech. That's the base for what she said. She is fully aware of what the government has decided, what guidelines apply to government policy, what the defence settlement means on that point and the motives behind the investigation that has been set up. That is also the view of the government and what we are working on in practice. Of course, you can choose to do things extremely comprehensively in the debate, and you can choose to listen to what I say about what applies in this context as well as what I said in various interviews. You could also choose to listen to what she said from the beginning when she marked a personal opinion and did not claim that it was something else. You, Mr Wallmark, have left behind from your government period a staff supply that contains some shortcomings. We have the ambition to try to straighten them up to make it work. That is really the big challenge.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-161	Madam President, I would like I admit, Minister of Defence, that I was genuinely surprised when I perceived the Secretary of Defense as graceful and industrious in his answer, but that was the case. I thought the answer was so distinctive when it did not involve the Foreign Minister's statement in one word. After all, she's part of the government. She is also de facto Deputy Prime Minister, even if she does not have it; it has another person – that is the problem. The Minister of Defence must well admit that when we have an annual national conference where Swedish defence and security policy is in focus and there is uncertainty as to what is basically the government's line, that is a problem. I have to say, Madam President – and this is to be commended by the Minister for Defence – that both in interviews afterwards and even now in this House, the Minister for Defence has made it clear that the view he represents is the government's and not the personal opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But it seems to us viewers, to us who follow this, that both have contributed to a lack of clarity and a lack of clarity, although the Minister for Defence is now doing what he can to emphasise what is the government's line. It is quite true that a number of investigations were set up as a result of the defence settlement. The one about human resources is one of them. On behalf of the Moderates, we said that we have nothing to object to the commissioning of the investigation. We will study its results and have not taken a stand in advance either for or against, here or there. On the other hand, it is important for us – and it is also stated in the directives – that voluntary activity is the basis. It is good that the Minister for Defence is so clear that it is voluntaryism that is the basis. The great challenge that we have to face, both the Minister for Defence and me as the Defence Policy spokesperson of the Moderates, is the Swedish Armed Forces' problem with the defection. Basically, the challenge is not to recruit people for military training, and it is relatively easy to recruit people for employment. The problem is to keep them long enough. The dropout is far more interesting than the admissions to be trained and become part of the Swedish Armed Forces. I think we should look at this, and it must of course be done in close cooperation with the responsible authority, namely the Swedish Armed Forces. Madam President, I asked the Minister for Defence a few questions. My first question was: is there any ambition on the part of the government to introduce a general conscription which also includes civilian functions? I interpret the Minister for Defence as the answer is no, that the government does not intend to do so. My second question was: Are there any thoughts on the part of the government that the Swedish Armed Forces should be responsible for having people on standby who can be called into asylum accommodations, for example, or as guides? I take the defense minister's answer as no, that it is out of the question. The Civil Defence Association has 20 000 members, and its Chairman Sven Lindgren has said that what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is talking about in Sälen is not a good suggestion, that it is not a good proposal to forcefully educate people and then put them into community service within refugee reception or care. It's not a good idea. He said that in Dagens Nyheter some day after the Foreign Minister's statement. Finally, the introduction of some form of military and civilian conscription is subject to costs. If so, how should they be dealt with within the current defence budget with the current orientation decision in force until 2020? I take the defence minister's answer as a no, that there is no point in introducing any other or new system that does not fit within the framework of today's defence expenditure in accordance with the agreement in the orientation decision in force until 2020.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-170	Madam President, I would like I do not think that at any time there has been any confusion as to what measures the government is taking and planning in this context. As I pointed out earlier, the Foreign Minister already indicated in his speech that it was a personal opinion, and she is well aware of the decisions taken by the government. I have explained it in a number of different forums. The investigation that we are setting up is not affected at all by the debate that arose in connection with the Conference of Nations. As far as employers' issues are concerned and early withdrawals are concerned, we have given a clear explanation in the draft directive, as far as we can within the framework of the political mandate, of how to deal with certain improvements in current employment relationships, but it is the Swedish Armed Forces as the authority that has to take a position on this. The great challenge, for which I think the previous government and the Moderates should feel a rather great responsibility, is that the system we have today does not work in the way that was foreseen and for which the then government argued. We have had a wide range of problems that led to the creation of an investigation. In the investigation, any use of duty must be reviewed. We also look at the combination systems. Furthermore, we have parties that were part of the previous government base that, although they were involved in deciding to abolish military service, require the immediate introduction of military service. I, who originally opposed the system that we now have and voted against it in the Riksdag, take the more modest view that perhaps we should at least investigate first. In this way we know what we are doing and can, at a later stage, act in a stable way so that we do not tear down anything, but then add things that have a positive and stabilising effect. Bourgeois is – and I see it – fundamentally divided as to how to view it. We can see that there are also rapid changes of opinion in this respect. As I said, on our part there is no ambiguity on this issue. I believe that from the outset, Mr Wallmark has realised the situation and that the investigative directives we have put forward are solid. The agreement we have on defence policy is what applies to the policy we are pursuing. I do not think that, as I pass the foreign minister's statement, it is really news for Wallmark. I think I've made that information before. Denmark and Norway are interesting examples. I look forward to eventually getting the investigation presented to me to see how we can combine a system of voluntaryity and duty. I notice that both within the Swedish Armed Forces and in other contexts there is a great interest in this particular type of solution. It may be seen as a way forward. I guess we'll just have to wait for the investigation and the debate that will be then. I will, of course, discuss the proposal from the investigator with other parties before going to work in a next step.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-178	Madam President, I would like A tip to the Minister for Defence is that when the government looks at the investigation and thinks about what positions it should have, it is good to send forward ministers who have the government's anchored opinion and not a general opinion of their own in general. It's part of what the Secretary of Defense says. When the duty was made dormant and we built up the new organization, the idea was not that we should have an immediate fulfillment, but that would be done away with towards 2019, 2020. It is important that we are honest with each other and say that it is an organization under construction. Then it is important that we follow this closely. My ambition is that it will be a success, that it will be good for Sweden's defence, that it will be to the benefit of the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish defence capabilities. I see absolute problems. I see that in terms of recruitment and retention of temporary staff. I see we're dropping out way too soon. I identify that as a problem, and they will be addressed. But let me make a general recommendation to the Minister for Defence on behalf of the government. One can make a little fun of it and mark a distance to the fact that there are two ministers at the People and Defence National Conference in Sälen who have slightly different opinions. One gives a personal opinion on Sunday, and the other on Monday gives an opinion that is more official. It creates ambiguities and ambiguities. It is not in the government's favour – I can live with it in my own right – nor in favour of Sweden and the Swedish Armed Forces. I think that Peter Hultqvist has been clearer in this debate. I understand that I have received a few answers, although I have had to interpret them myself. As he has not denied them, I assume that the interpretations I have made are reasonable. The complexity and sensitivity of this demonstrates the fact that in his reply he did not touch on Mrs Wallström's statement.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-183	Madam President, I would like I can only say that in several speeches I have now touched on the opinion and action of the Foreign Minister in Sälen. I have explained what is the government's opinion. That is the most important thing in this context. I understand that this is also what Wallmark wants answers about. In such a context, the emphasis is placed on what is the official line and what we are working on. I have in no way denied that there is a plan in place regarding the fulfilment of personnel within the Armed Forces. However, it is not simply to achieve the goals that the plan specifies to achieve year by year. There is a clear risk of failure to meet the 2020 target due to drop-out and recruitment problems. I think it is a good thing that Mr Wallmark is now also stating that this shortcoming exists. That was something that we pointed out already when this was discussed in Parliament when we abolished the military service system. We will have to come back to the discussion on how to stabilise the future human resources system. Then we will in some way have to come up with a system in which we can ask for working and trained units, so that this works in reality. I would then like to emphasise, in order to ensure that there is no doubt about it and not to speculate on it or otherwise take advantage of it in the debate, that the Foreign Minister has made a personal point of view on this matter known. You can choose to enlarge this and make it a huge issue in the debate if you wish. This makes it impossible to have personal views. What I have presented, however, is the government's line and view.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-188	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked me how I intend to proceed with the work to strengthen the psychological defence of Sweden and how I view the proposal to restore psychological defence as my own authority. In overall terms, psychological defence aims to ensure an open and democratic society with freedom of opinion and free media. It is also more concrete to be able to identify and meet impact campaigns and impact operations both in peacetime conditions and in times of increased preparedness and extreme war. In other words, it touches on the whole range of activities from peace to war. As noted in the Swedish Defence Committee's report and the Swedish Parliament's defence decisions this summer, we see a significant deterioration in the international situation. This calls for a restored total defence and psychological defence adapted to current circumstances. The Government also stated in the detention decision that advocacy campaigns against Sweden and other countries are ongoing. Several authorities have responsibilities and roles to play in today's psychological defenses as well as in the work of identifying and meeting advocacy campaigns. This applies to the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, law enforcement authorities and defence authorities. In the defence bill, the government is clear that the authorities will develop their capabilities and at the same time increase collaboration. A development of the activities is now under way within the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, as well as other relevant authorities. I and the Minister for the Interior, as the most responsible minister and the other ministers concerned, are closely following the work. The creation of a special authority for psychological defence is currently out of the question. With regard to international cooperation, I would particularly like to mention the NATO Strategic Communications Centre, Stratcom, in Riga. The Centre contributes to NATO's work by, among other things, delivering studies and expert exchanges linked to how strategic communication capabilities can be strengthened among the Allies and interested partner countries as well as for various NATO institutions. As a partner country, there are several ways to work with the centre. Swedish authorities have participated in several activities offered by the Centre during 2014 and 2015. The question of formal Swedish cooperation with the Centre is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-195	Madam President, I would like Where lies are weapons, the truth is countermeasures. This can be repeated. That is why it is so important that we pay attention to the psychological threats that are directed against not only Sweden but the entire Baltic Sea region as well as the intelligence threats that exist and the attacks that are taking place against countries like Sweden. The Minister for Defence himself has been involved here and emphasised this in various ways. I think that deserves praise. On a day like this, there is every reason to realise that Russia is a different country. There has now been a report from the United Kingdom that the murder of Litvinenko in England was possibly sanctioned by the Russian Head of State. It provides perspectives that are quite hideous in terms of what is on the other side of the Baltic Sea. We also know that there are so-called voices, such as Sputnik and others, who report and try to give their version of the truth. We're talking about troll factories in Kaliningrad. All of this is serious and remarkable, for it may be that you mix a witch's brew of some truth and a lot of lies. That's how you present it, and it creates uncertainty. It undermines and eats. It is part of the aims and objectives that we want to achieve. In connection with the People's and Defence Conference in Sälen a few weeks ago, the Minister of Defence was very clear when he pointed out against the claims that are now being made in connection with the host country agreement, which we intend to adopt in the Chamber this spring. There are grotesque claims that the host country agreement would lead to nuclear basement, to the opening of bases and a lot of other things. The Minister of Defence asked the wise question: for whose purposes are errors of this kind spread? I think it is wise for us to ask these kinds of questions repeatedly when there are serious claims. Who benefits from it? Then, perhaps a little self-critical on the part of the Minister for Defence, we can consider whether there is a certain similarity between the rather bizarre arguments that are now facing the host country agreement, for which he is responsible, and the whole NATO debate that was held in Sweden for many years. It has also been edged by this type of claim. It is good that Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist wants to be involved in the undergrowth in the social debate, but there is reason to see deeper and wider. Madam President, I would like On the part of the Moderates, we have said that the restoration of psychological defense is interesting. We know that it has been abolished, but it should be examined what structures to have for the new time. I understand that the Minister for Defence, although today he rejects the idea of re-establishing an authority and realises that it is not possible to resurrect the old, realises that something new may be required to meet the needs of today and the future. Our proposal has been very concrete, namely that we should give FOI the task of examining the conditions for re-establishing some kind of psychological defence, not what it looked like in 2008 but what it should look like for tomorrow, to meet the needs of today and the future. That struggle must be fought daily and at short notice. Where lies are weapons, the truth is countermeasures.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-204	Madam President, I would like The government has set a specific target and reporting requirement for the agency's activities in terms of information impact in a regulatory letter to MSB. A person must have a good ability to identify and meet the impact of information in his/her own area of responsibility. In addition, it will contribute to the preparedness of other security officers and stakeholders in this area. In addition, law enforcement authorities and defence authorities shall assume responsibility for the relevant tasks within the framework of the psychological defence. These include external monitoring, external analysis, intelligence activities and national measures to respond to impact campaigns. The authorities must protect society and their own activities against, among other things, impact campaigns and operations, which requires greater coordination of different parts within the authorities and between the authorities. I don't think Wallmark and I have any major differences of opinion in this. I guess it's more about how we do it. We are now trying to probe the terrain and carry out internal preparation work within the Government Office. It is about looking at these issues from different aspects and how we are going to move forward. We have also indicated in the specialization bill that this is an area on which we have to take out the stride length, although the wording may have been a little different there. This is a reality that needs to be addressed. I would just like to remind you that Russia has introduced the information arena into the 2014 military doctrine as the fourth arena of warfare, alongside land, sea and air. Information operations usually aim to divide, demoralize, create myths and confuse. Misleading is used to achieve its security policy objectives and objectives. We are now preparing an entry into Stratcom in Riga, the Centre for Strategic Communication. It is a question of marking a relationship with the Baltic States, but also of creating an opportunity to strengthen our own knowledge. We have an improvement potential in this area which we must take seriously. It is the government's view that this job has been started and will be developed. If you do not take these kinds of questions seriously, there is a great risk that you will constantly become a victim of the circumstances and that you cannot keep track of the truth or the lie. The situation becomes confusing for the general public. One can have different pictures of how different decisions can beat from different political points of view. Wallmark and I have different views on membership of NATO. Then everything should be described correctly even if you arrive at different positions. Here, however, one may be guilty of excesses and a little bit of hairy ideas in many places. I guess I'll have to play that ball back. It is about some form of self-examination even with Wallmark and his party friends. However, I am pleased that we are broadly in agreement in this area, and this is a debate that we have every reason to have.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-213	Madam President, I would like Let me describe the Secretary of Defense's last four minutes. The speech was divided into two parts. In the latter part, when he spoke more freely without prewritten notes, he was quite interesting. I think that we fundamentally agree on this point. On the other hand, I do not share this kale-supar theory: that NATO opponents and friends of NATO would use equally erroneous arguments. In addition, I reject the whole kale-supar theory in the NATO debate itself – it is the Minister for Defence itself. But I think it is a good thing that he is involved in clearing up the undergrowth of strange arguments which, in any case, exist with regard to the host country agreement. In the first part of the speech, the Minister of Defence read mainly before. Yeah, yeah, that sounds good. I totally agree with that. What I am trying to say, and which I would like to make the Minister of Defence admit in the minutes left, is: is it not a rather good idea that we have on the part of the Moderates? We're not saying what it's supposed to look like, but we're going to investigate this. We have also indicated in our draft budget that FOI could be allowed to do this. Let us leave the prewritten papers! Can we not agree that it would be good if, together with the Minister for Defence on this issue, the opposition could work towards the restoration of a psychological defence that meets today's and tomorrow's needs? Of course, we will have to examine exactly what it will look like. It's not supposed to look like 2008, it's supposed to meet the future. Just as the Secretary of Defense described reality, so do I try to describe reality. Where the lie is a weapon, the truth is the antidote. I think it is good that the Minister for Defence mentions Stratcom in Riga. I've had the privilege of visiting it. I have also asked the Minister for Defence written questions about the process for Sweden to become part of Stratcom, how it works. The Minister for Defence has then said, as he does today, Madam President, that the matter is being prepared. I hope it is prepared quickly, because I think it is a good idea. It marks our presence vis-à-vis the Baltic friends, but it is also an important area of question. In Stratcom you can find out some of the information used. Among other things, there are very strange letters that suddenly existed. Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist was alleged to have written a letter to Ukraine and congratulated them on the purchase of Archersystem. It is a lie, a fiction and a fake, but it shows just how the misinformation, the lie and the propaganda are used daily and momentarily. That is why it is important to increase our preparedness and ability. Finally, let me remind you that this is not new! These are battles that have been fought on our continent for decades. It is well thanks to radio voices that the BBC World Service and Radio Free Europe we are living today in a Europe where the wall has fallen and the Iron Curtain has been dismantled. Thanks to the voices of Winston Churchill and others, mediated through such channels, people have at a time of lying understood that there is also truth, right and wisdom.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-219	Madam President, I would like I think it's interesting. When I try to be a little courteous about the arguments for and against NATO, Wallmark suddenly vouches for all efforts with arguments for NATO. There has never been any overstepping here, but here reality has always been at the heavenly heights. There is, like, nothing to say about this. Any humility on my part was not answered with a loud voice but with a certain brutality on the part of Wallmark. I guess you'll have to take note of that. How do you look at it? I think it was a rather strange way to face an attempt to tone it down and to appeal to some sort of objectivity even in that debate. But each one has to stand up for his own – that's the way it is. Then there is what I described, what Wallmark characterizes as inward reading. In this way he tries to downplay the importance of it all. I can only say that it cannot be very wrong for us to give directives to the authorities that they should work on this issue and that we make certain demands on the authorities as to what they should be able to achieve and that they should have external monitoring, external analysis and also measures to tackle impact campaigns. It's not something you should try to reduce. That is a fairly reasonable position on the part of a government. I cannot even imagine that Wallmark would, in practice, have anything against this. And if he has anything against this, he should report it, because then I think he is taking a startling position. But we'll see about that. Nor can it be very strange that there should be a requirement for coordination between the authorities. We're in a situation where this is on several hands. Then you have to see: How can you make this work in the most effective way possible? As far as future investigations into the establishment of public authorities are concerned, I am not going to give any information or promise. However, it is always easy to say so h is: Well, now this has happened – then we set up a new authority. It is rare to look at whether any authority has survived itself and may not have the function it had before. It does happen sometimes, but it is not very often. We must have an effective psychological defence without a tt for that reason stuck in the organisational form. Perhaps the most important thing right now is to put pressure on the bodies working on this that we on the political side want results and that is something that we prioritise. If we see in the future a need for a different organisational form, we will always have the opportunity to return to that very issue. I would just like to note that, in my initial reply, I indicated that this is not the case, and I am sure that Mr Wallmark has also noted this. However, we agree on the basic issue, that is to say that this is a challenge in which we have a thing to do. That is also what I wanted to highlight in my speech in Sälen, and I am pleased that a certain amount of attention was given to the debate, which is driving the process forward.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-226	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for this! In response to the question put by the Minister for Defence, as a relief to the previous interpellation debate, I would like to say that I am not expressing a personal opinion, but this is the moderate view. Sometimes it seems that this has to be clarified in the debate, so I just want to be clear in that way. What I really want, Madam President, is for the Minister of Defence, in addition to reading out directives and orientations, to say that it was an unusually good idea that the Moderates had. Imagine if you could hear such things more often in politics: That was good! We Moderates do not say that we are supposed to butt and immediately set up a new authority, but let us investigate it. Then we have even made a creative proposal as to who could do it, namely FOI. So let's hear someone say, let's hear it, let's hear it: that was actually a really good idea-- let's find together the forms for it! I am not saying that it should be here and now, but I am saying that we should find the structure to face these quite serious challenges tomorrow, in the future, with the modern means – not as it looked in 2008 but as it looks forward. Finally, with regard to kalesupar theory, I would like to say that there are certainly those who are wrong. However, when I review the NATO debates that have taken place in Sweden in recent years, I would like to stress that I think that the excesses and undergrowth are greater on one side than on the other. That is not to say that someone goes without error, but my criticism and my objection to kalesupar theory both in this debate and in the general NATO debate is that there is a difference! There are differences between one side and the other.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-231	Madam President, I would like At least we have come to the point that no one is flawless, and that is a good understanding of the way humanity works. The political debate can take off a bit on different sides. Let's see what that insight can stand for in a future perspective. I am thinking, as I said, was not an expression of any personal opinion, because here I represent the government, which means that what I am saying here must also be done. But I can say that we are probably quite in agreement about the commitment and about the problem picture. However, I am not prepared to stand here today and promise the organisational solution. Wallmark seems to have thought through the matter, but it is not like there is a solution to the problem that I stand here and promise that we will do as Wallmark says, because it takes so much more to come forward. Many authorities are already involved, and many people are working on this issue. It is important to get this right in the first place, to increase the efficiency of the organisation. Then we will see at what point we are prepared to take new initiatives. At least I can say so much as that we have a defence group that includes Wallmark himself. It includes the parties that have concluded the defence settlement, and it is a forum where we can exchange views on how we should do something better in the future. I fundamentally appreciate the discussion on psychological defence, because it is a problem area with an improvement potential that we must take as seriously as possible.
i-KwWXmRnHbvBtrpQyyNZ7Tt	I welcome the ministers to Question Time. Today, questions are answered by Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, Minister of State Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, and Minister of State Peter Hultqvist and Minister Isabella Lövin. A question shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government or to the performance of its duties. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-237	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Labour. We have major integration challenges in Sweden. After eight years, not even half of all newcomers are in work. Now that a further 240 000 asylum seekers have gone to Sweden in the last two years, major political reforms are needed in order for more people to get to work faster. In particular, jobs are required where you do not need to have such a high level of education. The Prime Minister does not seem to see this challenge at all. He has said on several occasions that this is not a major concern. Of course, this is problematic, because politics needs to focus here. My question to the Minister for Labour is whether it is the government's assessment that there is no job shortage, and in particular that there is no lack of jobs that actually require lower education.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-240	Mr President, I would like to It is true, as Elisabeth Svantesson says, that it is clear that the policies that have applied so far cannot continue. That is why a new policy is needed so that people get to work much faster than has been the case in recent years. This requires a policy that meets people with different conditions and different needs. It is obvious that we need more jobs in Sweden. Fortunately, we are currently experiencing very strong job growth. The latest figures from Statistics Sweden show 85 000 new jobs in the last year, seasonally adjusted, and the trend seems to continue. The new arrivals who come to Sweden have very different conditions. Some have the potential to enter a profession that they can or have a high level of education with them immediately. Then it is important to meet it, and we do so in the form of fast track. Others may have no education at all and may never have worked. Then the way into the Swedish labour market is particularly difficult, and then it is obvious that we also need to discuss simple jobs.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-243	Mr President, I would like to Then it is clear that the government does not have a comprehensive view of whether jobs are needed even for those who have a lower level of education. My simple answer and advice to this government is: See that it is not possible to educate all unemployment! Reforms are needed for more simple jobs. With a divided government, it is well – for the friendly – clear that one reason why there are no proposals for the simple jobs is simply that you do not agree.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-244	Mr President, I would like to When Elisabeth Svantesson was responsible for labour market issues, all new arrivals got an establishment slot. This policy may well be described as a rather limited success – it was 0.5 per cent of those who participated in the start-up assignment who got access to education in addition to Swedish. Of course, we need to invest considerably more in education and more individually adapted efforts than was the case under the old government.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-246	Mr President, I would like to Rural Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht will surely share the concern and frustration of many of us in this Chamber and around the country feel about this year's wolf hunt. I am concerned that this House does not have the capacity to decide on long-term and sustainable predator management that allows people to live and work in rural areas. The rural population and the sparsely populated population need to have great confidence in the proposals of the Minister for Rural Development, which I hope will come. That's what it takes to get acceptance. I feel that the government today has a clear and coherent political ambition about predatory policy, but for me who is completely new to the Riksdag it is quite clear that there is a difference of opinion on the wolf issue between Minister for the Environment Åsa Romson and Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Could it be that the Minister for Rural Development has given in to the Green Party and sacrificed the rural population in this horse trade? My question is: when will the sharp proposals that enable a wolf hunt and perhaps can restore confidence in the policies of rural people come?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-249	Mr President, I would like to The hunting regulation that prevails today has created confusion in the hunting of wolves. There is a great deal of concern and the regulation is not working. Let us remember that the government that put the regulation in place was the alliance government. This government is in complete agreement that we must put order into this. We must have a regulation that follows case law and we must base on how many wolves we can delay scientific advice and analysis. Now it's time to create order around the hunt for wolves in Sweden. It's time for the messy Alliance to end.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-251	Mr President, I would like to I understand that there have been complications with the previous hunting regulation. I believe that we must now look to the future and find solutions. My question was: when will the solutions come? If the Minister for Rural Development is unsure whether he is receiving support from the Green Party, I think he can find another broad support here in Parliament, including from me, only the sharp solutions come.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-252	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree in the government that we should create a new regulation that follows case law and is also relevant to EU law. That work is now going on very intensively, and we are going to change the regulation during the winter. It is also a matter of looking at taking decisions on time, so that there is an opportunity to have a legal process that enables hunting. We will also look at where it should be handled.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-253	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Secretary of Defense. Does the Minister of Defence think that the number of military units we now have is enough? The background is that the committee directive that has been submitted states that it should be proposed how an increased volume of personnel in war organisations can be achieved should such a need arise with regard to Sweden's defence preparedness. I think we've passed that a long time ago. Today I think we have too many chiefs and too little Indians, if the term is allowed, in the organization. I would like an answer that may be a little more full-bodied than just a yes or a no.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-255	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. The defence-oriented decision means that we are expanding the organisation. We will increase with about 300 soldiers on Gotland in relation to the situation today. It is an investment involving quite a considerable amount of money. The expansion work will begin in 2016 and will continue until 2020, and this means that the volume of personnel for soldiers will increase. We are creating new units in the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-257	Mr President, I would like to This could mean that the Minister for Defence is also in favour of a military service system in some form. Is that correct?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-258	Mr President, I would like to What is happening on Gotland is done within the framework of the current staff supply system. With regard to the investigation Richtoff referred to in his first post, we want to have it highlighted how a future system can open up for an increased volume of staff and new units. So we want an investigation that also highlights that perspective, and that is the directive that applies. Then we will have to wait for the results of the investigation and future positions.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-260	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. The Government has taken a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of Swedish food production. These include reduced diesel taxes, aid for dairy producers and increased Norrland support, and a long-term food strategy will soon be presented to Parliament. Unfortunately, we have had problems with the late payments of EU aid for last year. The background is that Sweden had difficulty getting the Swedish rural programme, which the previous government submitted, approved by the EU. The Commission had a number of points of view which the Socialist-led government had to deal with. This led to additional work and delays in the disbursements of aid for 2015. So far, 7 out of 9 billion have been paid out. My question is how the current government ensures that this does not happen again when subsidies for 2016 are to be paid out.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-264	Mr President, I would like to It is true that what we took over was a very careless application for the rural programme by the previous government. There were 330 outstanding issues that we resolved, and it was worked extremely intensively by both ministries and agricultural agencies. We got it on site and approved in May 2015. But it is a completely new system, which means that you have to have completely new IT systems. We've been working extremely intensively on this. Out of 9 billion, 7 billion have been paid out now in January. It's the big money that's left. This is compensation aid of 1.2 billion. 85% of this will be paid out in March, and a smaller part, about 200 million, will be paid out in November. Securing the future? Yes, we have already started working on the next program, CAP 21. You can't wait, like you did, with this program. We need to prepare ourselves in good time so that it does not cause the problems that the whole agricultural industry suffered as a result of this.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-267	Mr President, I would like to The payments of st destinies for 2015 took place in the midst of a crisis for the Swedish dairy farmers. I wonder whether this is something that the Swedish Board of Agriculture has taken special account of in this payment.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-268	Mr President, I would like to This, of course, causes liquidity problems when you do not get the aid to the extent that you normally get. It was an exceptional situation in 2015 because of the trouble I presented in my previous post. It can't happen again. Now they are preparing to make record-early payments in 2016 to compensate for the previous delay. We expect large payments already in October.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-271	Mr President, I would like to The State's payments of compensation to farmers for 2015, which have been affected here, are, as I said, greatly delayed. This is particularly unfortunate given the difficult situation in which many of the farmers in Sweden find themselves, especially the dairy farmers. Now the government seems rather preoccupied with finding reasons and reasons for the delays. But for those affected and affected by this, namely farmers, it does not really matter very much. The problem that arises is that many are now experiencing a liquidity crisis and that many are forced to solve it with loans, i.e. that inconvenience and costs are created for those concerned.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-274	Mr President, I would like to The payments, which the Swedish Board of Agriculture handles, follow the EU acquis, so that is no violation of it. To compensate can be done in many different ways. Among other things, as I said in the previous post, the 2016 support will be paid out record-time so that liquidity is strengthened. I know there is a major problem in Swedish agriculture. We've made several bets. We have invested in the diesel tax reduction, which the alliance government reduced from SEK 2.34 per litre to SEK 90. We have increased it to SEK 1.70. This means 300 million per year for agriculture and forestry, for three years as much as 900 million. We also financed the national envelope from the EU with 100% national funding. 152 million were paid out in two instalments to Swedish agriculture. There's a lot of effort that we've made in an emergency.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-277	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. It sounds good that you are about to find a new form to work with this for 2016, when this will be paid out faster. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development whether he is prepared to ensure that payments for 2016 are not delayed, but rather that they are paid out prematurely. However, the question then remains as to how the government intends to compensate the farmers for the delays that have arisen for 2015.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-279	Mr President, I would like to It is not uncommon for this to happen when changing the programming period. This was also the case at the time of the change in the previous programming period, when there were huge complications with the IT system. I know and understand that farmers suffer from a lack of liquidity when there are delays. We compensate them, and the Swedish Board of Agriculture promises to make record-early payments of the 2016 support. I also assume that the Director-General has given a clear message to farmers.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-281	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Labour about what is going on with the so-called phase 3, i.e. those who are furthest from the labour market and are in the employment phase. When I meet social entrepreneurs today, they say that they still do not really know what is going to happen to their business or to the people who are in this action. The government has now decided to close phase 3 and replace it with additional services in the welfare sector. There were a lot of problems. At the same time, however, nearly 90 percent were satisfied with the stake, and about 63 percent got a job in some form. And those in phase 3 are about 30,000 people.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-285	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Pethrus' question has two aspects. One concerns social enterprises. It is my view that work-integrated social enterprises have a very important role to play in labour market policy and should be able to play an increased role, and this is an issue on which the government is working. The second concerns those individuals who have been placed in the impasse phase 3. The government and Arbetsförmedlingen are now working very intensively to ensure that people can get other ways that can lead to a real job. There are an enormous number of people in phase 3, and many people have been unemployed for a very long time. Fortunately, long-term unemployment is now falling after many years of stagnation. The government has recently introduced the possibility of studies for all those in phase 3, and we are working to get municipalities, county councils and state authorities to set up additional services.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-289	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I really got an answer to what information is given to these people, if they know what is in store for them. In a memo that leaked out of Arbetsförmedlingen last year it is written that there are many who are far from the labour market and who will neither be relevant for extra services in the welfare sector nor will be able to assimilate education. The question is: What is the Government doing to help these people? It was still 63% who got a job in the second measure.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-292	Mr President, I would like to I'm surprised Désirée Pethrus thinks Phase 3 has been so well-functioning. I think she's pretty lonely about it. But I'll take it seriously. Education will, of course, suit a great many people. It is extremely rare that people should not be able to assimilate education. In fact, I have never met anyone who would not be able to assimilate education. It is true that not everyone will be able to take a job, even if it is subsidised. Then we need efforts as work training.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-295	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lövin. The new global goals for sustainable development have been established, and Sweden has been very active on these issues. What will Sweden prioritise in its work on the new global goals for sustainable development? I am well aware that the Minister for Development has specifically mentioned Objectives 14 and 16. Can the Minister for Development possibly develop what role Sweden can play in achieving these goals?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-298	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. In these dark times, it is gratifying that all UN Member States have managed to agree on Agenda 2030, the direction towards a more sustainable world that we so badly need. We really need to marry together environmental, social and economic sustainability in a common agenda. Sweden has prioritised gender equality, decent work, sustainable seas and peaceful communities. We will take an initiative with small island states to help the world get around Objective 14. There is no centre within the UN system for all the issues under Objective 14. We will also be working on democracy, accountability, the rule of law and all the difficult issues under Objective 16. Among other things, I do this in the framework of state building and peace building.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-302	Mr President, I would like to Objective 16 covers the rule of law and institution building. An important part, for which I know the government has taken a great deal of weight, is the participation of women. How does Sweden intend to work actively for women to become more involved, especially with regard to Objective 16?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-304	Mr President, I would like to Objective 16 is about freedom from violence and peaceful societies. These are prerequisites for us to succeed in ensuring that people have the right to education, food and all other goals. Women's participation is a key issue. Sweden is committed to making women central to peace negotiations through special initiatives to get women mediators and peace negotiators. We also address the role of women in all contexts.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-307	Mr President, I would like to I ask my question to Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. This is the case with the delayed EU payments. Swedish farmers have been working for 20 years on a common European market but with national production conditions, whether they are taxes, climates or EU payments. Swedish agriculture cannot afford to be disadvantaged in this in relation to its competitor countries. It is particularly difficult when environmental and similar EU payments are not paid in good time. The starting point must, of course, be to simplify the farmer's everyday life and strengthen the profitability and competitiveness of the green industries. The Government has previously mentioned that there will be record-early payments for 2016. Can the Government clarify how he thinks about it?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-311	Mr President, I would like to Since joining the EU in 1995, we have a common agricultural policy, so the same policy applies to all the 28 countries of the EU. The delays raised by Anders Forsberg are present in all countries, and many countries have significantly greater delays than Sweden. What you have to do is start working on the new program on time. You have to do your homework. That is why we have already started the job with CAP 21 that will apply from 2021. That's not what the Alliance government did. They started late and submitted a sloppy application, which meant that there were big delays before we got the Swedish system in place. This caused farmers to suffer from late payments. As far as the payments for 2016 are concerned, I cannot say in detail who comes first.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-315	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Rural Development for his answer. I can understand that it is not possible to specify at present, but it is interesting that the ambition exists. Let me say that this is a real bloody soup, and it is not a chef's fault, but rather several chefs who have not done their job to the full. In order to build a stable and growing green industry, stable rules, long-term good economic conditions and responsible politicians are needed. Is the Minister for Rural Affairs prepared to accept this responsibility?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-318	Mr President, I would like to The government takes great responsibility for the green industries, especially for agriculture. We have put in many activities and financial support to support agriculture in the current situation. This applies, in particular, to the milk industry, where over a three-year period we are giving 900 million to a reduction in diesel tax and additional liquidity support for agriculture. We have also increased Norrland support to the maximum amount. The government is prepared to take long-term responsibility and is therefore already starting the job ahead of CAP 21.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-320	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. It is a general policy issue, and it is about the housing market. The need for housing is great. Boverket has concluded that 700 000 homes are needed by 2023. In order to achieve this goal and solve today's difficult situation, it is not just construction that is needed. There is also a need for a simplified regulatory process, and that work began with the Alliance. Many people feel that this process has now stopped, which of course is not good. There's a need for housing. It is not capital, time in housing queue or contacts that should determine whether a person receives a dwelling. Is the government prepared to continue the work on simplifying the construction process that we started so that there will be more housing more quickly?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-324	Mr President, I would like to The housing shortage is one of our biggest challenges. It prevents the growth of new jobs in parts of the country because people cannot move to the job vacancies. We have great challenges with many young people who want to move from home and newcomers to Sweden who need housing. At the same time, we have a housing debt. For several years under the old government, we had a very low level of housing construction, and now we need to build up. The challenges are great. In working with them, we obviously need to look at many different ways of stimulating construction. Rule-simplification is definitely one of those. The government has recently invited the other parties to hold joint discussions on how we can put old concerns aside in order to systematically and jointly look at what efforts are needed and are good for Sweden so that everyone can get a good housing that you can afford.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-327	Mr President, I would like to I just raised the issue because it's so important. It is not just about the metropolitan regions but about the whole of Sweden. What measures will be taken to reduce the planning time? Today it can be several years from drawing to finished dwelling. Housing companies must have the courage to start building, and now! No long bench!
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-329	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Housing works to look at regulatory simplifications, because it is an important part. Many different efforts will be needed to achieve the high level of housing construction that is absolutely necessary. It would be welcome if we could do so in broad collaboration, and in such work all parties must be prepared to give and take and listen to all constructive proposals. The government will.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-332	Mr President, I would like to I ask my question to Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin. My question, like Mr Niemis' previous question, concerns the new sustainability objectives adopted last autumn by the UN General Assembly. I am particularly interested in SDG 14 on the conservation and exploitation of the seas and these marine resources. The Minister was already aware that Sweden will take a leading role there together with island nations, including Fiji, as there is no single centre for these issues. This is important work for Sweden, because according to the timetable, much of this should be achieved by 2020 and when it comes to pollution in marine environments by 2025. How does the Minister think that Sweden will act in order to do this forcefully and get to the structures needed to move forward?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-336	Mr President, I would like to I thank Emma Nohrén for the question. The challenges facing our seas are absolutely overwhelming. We know that two out of three fish stocks are overfished or fully exploited. There is a huge lack of knowledge about the seas, and we see sea acidification that threatens marine ecosystems and also the livelihoods of millions of people. What Emma Nohrén says is true. We have a lot of agreements and conventions that countries and states do not live up to. Sweden can support implementation through capacity, initiate research collaborations and support a variety of mechanisms to fulfil the existing agreements.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-339	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his commitment to this issue. I know that these issues are close to her heart, just as they do for me. We often talk about how things look in the oceans, but we also have big problems at home. It is important to ensure that the aquatic environment is improved also in our own vicinity of the Baltic Sea. Is it part of the work and, if so, in what way?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-341	Mr President, I would like to Haven is a truly cross-border issue that forces us to cooperate across borders. It is important to remember that plastic litter released on the Swedish west coast is carried by ocean currents and may eventually end up in a fish in the Indian Ocean. It threatens the income opportunities of poor people. Of course we must work together on these issues. We must exchange knowledge and take joint responsibility.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-344	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Bucht. We have discussed liquidity problems, payments and such things, but my question concerns something else, namely the food strategy, which can be part of the long-term solution. We in the Liberals have long believed that this is a priority and an important issue, and there is also a great public interest in it, at least in those affected. My question is: what is the current timetable? There are high expectations of the food strategy. It is not just a question of political expectations, but above all of those that can be directly affected, and also of society as a whole. I know that others, such as the Nature Conservation Association, are also interested in what is happening. It is about the competitiveness of agriculture, but also the consumer perspective is important. What is the current timetable?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-348	Mr President, I would like to The timetable was initially that we should submit a bill to the Riksdag in m ars, but we must postpone it. We expect to be able to present a bill in June. Why? Because we have had an enormous number of recordings, not least during the dialogue trips we have made around the country, to six different locations. It has been full houses with many input from industries and interest groups, which has given us an enormous amount of material. This material must be compiled and handled in a responsible manner, but also anchored with the other parties. I look forward to once in Parliament adopting a national food strategy with a joint club team. It is extremely important that we protect Swedish food production in all stages and that we ourselves produce more food in Sweden.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-351	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with the Government that it is extremely important to have broad support in order to gain acceptance. The government talked about political anchoring, but I believe that anchoring and acceptance in society in general may be even more important. The backside of the fact that expectations for this have been raised and so much seen, in the shadow of the problems of agriculture with competitiveness and such things, is that it creates great frustration when nothing happens. I would like to add that this is an extremely priority issue to be put in place.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-353	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Lars Tysklind. It is extremely important that we anchor this, not least within the various professional organisations that exist on both the primary production side and the food industry side. It must be anchored in academia, commerce and the consumer. The anchoring process is the most important thing for it to become a powerful instrument for increased Swedish food production.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-355	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Ylva Johansson. We see many challenges in Sweden today that we work with, but there is one thing that I think we sometimes talk too little about. It is about the supply of skills, which is a major challenge in many places. We will have a constant recruitment need for many years to come. It is important that we can keep the employees we already have, and in order to succeed, development opportunities need to be offered. Maybe you shouldn't look back so much, but you can look at what was good. In the 1990s, there was something called the Educational Vigilariat, where the training of an employee was combined with a substitute position for a job seeker. It was a good way to get both young and newcomers to work, and I wonder if the Minister has looked at this.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-359	Mr President, I would like to The educational bayariat worked very well in the 90's. It was a successful measure that gave people the opportunity to get into work but also gave them the opportunity to cope with the skills supply in the care of the elderly. Labour market policy must always be pragmatic and based on the situation in the labour market. During the 1990s we had an unemployment rate that was due much to the fact that jobs were scarce. Today we see a different type of problems and challenges in the labour market. We have a record number of vacancies. We have a great demand, not least in the care of the elderly, at the same time as we have large groups who are unemployed and have great educational needs. The government is investing heavily in the vocational training of nurses, both for those who are currently in work and those who are unemployed, but we do not intend to reintroduce the educational secretariat now. Those who work with care for the elderly are needed there.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-362	Mr President, I would like to I think it's a bit of a pity, because I think it can be a very good way to make people feel good at work. During the 90's we saw that they sat down in a joint group where those who worked at the workplace had to discuss how the long-term competence development needs out. We also saw that people felt better during that time when they had a chance to influence their own work. I hope it's possible to influence the government.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-365	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we must always be pragmatic. Of course, we are always prepared to try different solutions and see to the changes that are taking place. Of course, we are happy to have a dialogue with the parties on this. It is extremely important that we now invest in skills development, both for those in care for the elderly and those who want to work there, and for education and training. We should be careful to remove good staff from care for the elderly, because they are needed very well there. I would rather be able to combine work with education rather than being free from work.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-368	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The Home Guard is today a very professional part of the Swedish defence. The Swedish Home Guard is well staffed and ready in place throughout the country. Today, the Swedish Home Guard has much better equipment than it ever had, and there are more educated soldiers. We have never before had as well-trained soldiers as we have today. In addition, the personal protection of individual soldiers needs to be strengthened. We know there aren't any body armor for all our Home Guard soldiers today.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-372	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. This is an issue that is handled directly within the Swedish Armed Forces and Home Guard organisation. I have no way of indicating here the exact date of access to the body armor.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-374	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that the issue is not an audience like that, but my intention is that the Minister of Defence should take this along and prioritise it. It must not be that it is the business that should pay. There should be no difference. If we are to have business, we must also have protection. If we do not have vests, we will have major problems in dealing with the damage that exists in the event of conflict.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-376	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, reasonable to have perfect equipment. On the other hand, as a minister, I may not be taking over the authority's responsibilities. It may also be unreasonable for me as Minister of State to have the timetable for every piece to be carried out within the Armed Forces. However, I can say: Right now we are investing in building up the base plate, which includes basic personal equipment in the Swedish Armed Forces as a whole.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-378	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. It is important that we now have a government that implements several reforms to create better conditions for the establishment of new arrivals. Given that more people have now come to Sweden in a relatively short time to start a new life, it is particularly important. For both the individual and society at large, it is important that new arrivals have work and self-sufficiency as quickly as possible. The introduction of fast track by the government is one of the important measures aimed precisely at achieving this.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-381	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the view that it is extremely important that people who come to Sweden can quickly get to work and that we can take advantage of the expertise that comes to Sweden. As I said in a previous post: Those who come to Sweden have very different conditions. Many have professional experience and training that is requested in the Swedish labour market, have knowledge in the professions where we currently have a shortage. There the government is now, together with the social partners, introducing fast track. We expect to get fast track in about 25 different professions. It is not a question of someone taking precedence over someone else, it is a question of shortening the waiting periods that have been in place so far in order to be able to enter the profession that is actually mastered. On February 1st, I expect 50 people to start a fast track to cook. I expect about 100 people to start a fast track in the medical profession and about 20 people to start fast tracking to butchers and butchers.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-384	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Employment for your answer. I hope that the fast track can soon be extended to more areas, so that more of the people who come to us have the opportunity to start their lives again, with both job and security.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-386	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the fast track will be extended to more professions. I expect that we will have an increased interest in participating in the fast track, because job growth in Sweden is very strong at the moment, which also leads to a shortage in more and more professions. This increases interest in setting up fast-tracks in an increasing number of professions. It is a very good way of working pragmatically, building on the individual's skills and ensuring that authorities, language education, vocational training, supplementary education, validation and practice can be brought together to make a rapid contribution to society.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-388	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Lövin. The government has adopted a strategy – no performance strategy but a strategy – for aid to Syria. The basic approach is good. But the document still raises questions. The conflict is terrible. People are starving. War, violence and abuse are everyday for those who remain in the country. The situation is desperate. It even says in the strategy that it is the world's worst humanitarian disaster. Then I wonder: how does the Minister intend to build a climate perspective on aid to Syria, and why is Syria not included in the government's trade strategy, when the first point of the strategy is to build resilience through improved livelihoods? Trade could possibly be part of this.
i-VXTANshCsUBE2tFoogiE9F	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sofia Arkelsten, for the question. The Syria Strategy is a strategy that will also enable peace in Syria and the reconstruction of Syria. Currently, 60% of all people in Syria are unemployed. It is a war economy that can also drive people into the arms of ISIL and militias for their livelihood. It is therefore important to be able to offer jobs as well. There we have an ambition to see how to support, for example, micro-loans and the possibility for women to make their own living on the agricultural side. But trade is perhaps a bit premature at this point to invest in Sweden's trade strategy. We have an environmental and climate perspective on all development cooperation today. It is fully in line with Agenda 2030. We cannot have sustainable development if we do not look at the environment.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-394	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the government continues to work with the environment and climate. But what I was wondering was, in this burning conflict, how are you going to do it in practical terms? I also wonder whether the Minister – because it says about this in the strategy – can provide some examples of the norm-critical activities that will change attitudes towards gender-based violence. I would like to hear how it is intended to be implemented, which parts of Syria are seen to be able to do so now and if it is feasible.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-396	Mr President, I would like to Sida's assessment is that it is possible. I have visited Lebanon myself and there I met women's groups working inside Syria on these issues. The Swedish organisation Kvinna till kvinnor is active in the region, and there are very good initiatives, including women's groups who sign a new constitution and who visited Sweden not long ago, before Christmas. So there is active work that can be supported, and when we have peace, it becomes so important that women participate, are strong and have resources.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-397	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. In mid-January this year, the government announced the conclusion of a Memorandum of Understanding on Defence Cooperation with Denmark. Some of this has been described in the media, but I think that for many it is still rather unclear what this includes.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-400	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is a matter of jointly deepening bilateral cooperation with a view to increasing the operational impact of marine and air operations in peacetime, increasing the exchange of information, exchanging situational information, establishing secure communication, using each other's ports and air bases, and also exploring the possibility of having access to each other's territories under certain conditions.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-401	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that answer. I can note that in the media, not least on the editorial pages, there have been many speculations as to what the Memorandum of Understanding is all about. In some cases it has been speculation that I understand leads in the completely wrong direction. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence to clarify to Parliament and the audience what the Memorandum of Understanding is all about.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-404	Mr President, I would like to It is a peacetime cooperation that is really about two neighbouring countries taking greater responsibility for the situation in their own neighbourhood. We already have cooperation on many points today. This means that we are now deepening it. It is peacetime cooperation, and those who speculate that this has to do with future NATO membership are wrong. It has nothing to do with it. Two neighbouring countries are cooperating on common interests.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-406	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish dairy farmers are under heavy economic pressure. Each week, five dairy farmers lay down their milk production. I recently asked the Government a written question about the payments of the 2015 EU reimbursements. These are not expected to be fully paid until November 2016. Such a delay will hit heavily on already financially pressured dairy farmers. In the answer, the Minister shows understanding of the problems posed by the delay. However, the Minister does not present a syllable about how the government intends to do now in order for the farmers to receive the money to which they are entitled earlier than in November.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-410	Mr President, I would like to No, we won't give any interest. Magnus Oscarsson is here trying to give a picture of everything being paid out in November 2016. It is a completely wrong picture that he is trying to give to the Swedish people. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has paid out 7 out of 9 billion so far in early January. That's $7,000 million. What remains of the compensatory allowance is 1.2 billion, i.e. 1 200 million. 1 000 million will be paid out in March and 22 million in November. That's the picture. The fact that dairy farmers stop their activities is boring. There are 260 dairy farmers who stop their activities for a full year. Looking backwards, it was over a ten-year period on average about 300 per full-year. Unfortunately, that is the case. Now we have to turn this around by adopting a national food strategy and showing that we believe in Swedish food production.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-413	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for that. The situation is urgent. A farmer called me this week. He said: Magnus, now I sell a large part of my forest to cope with current expenses. But think of other dairy farmers who have no forest to sell. What are they gonna do?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-416	Mr President, I would like to All through last year, we sent out signals. We have gone in with an increase in the diesel tax reduction, which costs the state 300 million a year over three years, that is, what the Alliance Government removed. We have gone in and fully financed the EU package with 152 million which we are paying out to alleviate the liquidity crisis that exists. I know that many farmers are in a difficult situation. We are taking a lot of steps to correct this.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-417	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. The government has held talks with the social partners on faster ways into the labour market for newcomers in the field of medical identification. The fast track is based on the largest groups of new arrivals in the area. However, the measures can also be partially applied to all 21 regulated health professions. The aim of the fast track is for the road to the labour market and identification of new arrivals to be predictable, legally secure and as short as possible. There are hopes that this fast track will soon produce results. We've just heard that 100 are coming in. But I still ask: What is the progress of the fast track for the identification professions, and how can the outcome of this fast track look like in terms of time?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-421	Mr President, I would like to Since last April I initiated and invited the social partners to discussions on fast track work has gone surprisingly fast. Several fast tracks are already in place, and many more are underway. When it comes to the medical licence professions, I expect about 100 people to start on 1 February. What is at issue here is that many of the tests that have been carried out are now translated, so that you can, for example, carry out tests in your own language or in English, before you achieve sufficient knowledge of Swedish and before you can test your professional knowledge. You cut waiting times between different steps, so you can do several things together. What is special about the licence professions is that no one is released over the bridge until they have achieved the skills required for the licence. Therefore, it will take different lengths of time for different individuals to reach this competence. But I think we can cut the time by years.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-425	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The focus was initially on the four major professions of doctors, nurses, dentists and pharmacists. Is there any more concrete work going on with fast track for other regulated health professions?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-426	Mr President, I would like to We are now making models that are applicable to several professions. When you take part of this, you can be surprised that this has not been done before, i.e. that you cooperate between employers and ensure that people can practice while they attend supplementary education, that they can take the tests in languages other than Swedish or that they can take a preparatory education to pass the exams. But let's do this. It is a model that should have been in place a long time ago. But now it exists, and now we use it for more professions.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-428	Mr President, I would like to I also have a question for the Minister for Labour. I know that the Minister for Labour has been on a study trip in Australia looking at labour market policy in general but perhaps a little more specifically at the employment services. It is an example that has been used many times in the Swedish debate, and the Center Party has often looked at the lessons learned from 20 years of experience in organising employment services in a different way. It is never possible to use an entire model directly across another country's system. You can rather take over the parts that you think would be valuable to perhaps implement in Sweden. What we from the Center Party have considered valuable to do in Sweden as well is to divide up the brokerage part and the authority part and ensure that you do not sit on two chairs at the same time. But we also believe that we should allow actors to work in a structured way with a clear focus on results. I would like to hear what the Minister for Labour saw and what lessons she takes home to Sweden.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-432	Mr President, I would like to It is my conviction that private actors can make a significant contribution to employment services also in Sweden. During the time of the old government, we had about 1 000 private actors linked to the Public Employment Service. It was a business that was unfortunately edged by a lot of scandals with pilots and coaches that did not work. I have travelled to the UK and Australia to see what has been done in countries that have more experience than we and countries that I judge with better results are cooperating with private actors in the employment services. What has been striking and very instructive in both these countries is that they cooperate with considerably fewer players. In the United Kingdom, there are about 40 private operators all over the country, and Australia has 44 private operators. In Sweden we had 1 000. That is an essential lesson. There is also more performance-based remuneration in both countries – in the case of the UK 100% performance-based remuneration. I think that's something to learn from, too. They also have longer contracts.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-436	Mr President, I would like to If I had had more time than a minute before, I would have said that one of the elements that we also believe should be the focus of results in terms of the compensation paid to those who are to perform the services. So we also share this. What happened a year ago was that we here in Parliament felt it was a pity that the Minister for Labour closed the inquiry that had the task of reviewing the functioning of the Employment Service. We said it's time to pick it up again. When do the directives come to this investigation?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-438	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, the old government failed to work with the private actors on the employment services. That's my assessment. Unfortunately, it is a threshold to come back and find better and newer ways to do it. But it is my conviction that it is possible to do so. We will set up a study on the role of the Employment Service and the State in the labour market in the future. However, as far as the work with private operators is concerned, I believe that it is work that can be carried out and should be launched earlier than an investigation.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-441	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin. Since the start of Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara in the mid-70s, a large part of the Sahrawi population lives in refugee camps in Algeria. They are completely dependent on food, water and medicines from the outside world. Unfortunately, support has decreased in recent years. Then I am talking about the aid of Europe and also of the United Nations. During the autumn, a great flood washed away the refugees' mud houses and destroyed stocks of food and medicines. It had severe consequences. Frustration is growing in the refugee camps of people who want to take up arms again. There is a peaceful process going on today.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-445	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for this important question. The situation of the Sahrawi people in the camps and even inside Western Sahara is very desperate and has been so for a long time. Sweden is one of the world's largest donors to organizations such as UNHCR and World Food Programme, which makes the camps with refugees from Western Sahara work in Algeria. The food rations have been cut recently. And malnutrition is a major problem in the camps. We are pushing for the UNHCR, other organisations and also the EU to have an increased focus on helping the situation. We do this for humanitarian reasons. But, of course, we want a political solution. We want to see a solution to the conflict. It is important to support the UN track. Then we must give the Sahrawi people hope.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-450	Mr President, I would like to I think it's important. We can of course do what we can in Sweden, but international aid is also required. We can make a big effort there. A small effort can also be of great benefit. For example, the mackerel that the Sahrawis get can be the difference between malnutrition and being able to live a good life. That's why I'm happy about it. In order to maintain peace, so that frustration does not take over, I also think it is important that we show that we have not forgotten the people in the refugee camps.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-453	Mr President, I would like to Western Sahara is an example of a unfortunately far too little attention paid to conflict and humanitarian crisis. The outside world is focusing a lot on Syria now. But this is an area in which we must continue to push forward, including political energy and political initiatives, so that a political solution can be found in accordance with international law. We support the refugee camps.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-456	Mr President, I would like to I was going to ask the Minister for Rural Development a question about the announced proposal on food strategy. Now a colleague has already debated the issue with the Minister for Rural Development. Nevertheless, I would like to follow up on the timetable for the food strategy. A year and a half ago, the current government took away the Alliance's investment in Matlandet Sweden. Now, Production Sweden has no strategy for food production at all. I know that there are many who can produce and export more, which would be good for the whole of Sweden in many different ways. I wonder how the process of anchoring the food strategy should be done. We have been told for a whole year that it will come. The announced bill was due in April. Now we were told that it will be until June. What is the anchoring of the opposition?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-460	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has never had a food strategy. We are one of the few countries in Europe that have missed it. This government has taken the initiative to start that work. And it is gratifying that all parties have joined it. Even the Moderates have made a reversal. It's an honor. This needs to be done. As far as the anchoring process is concerned, I do not believe that there is anything as anchored in the country as this. We have been to dialogue meetings and met hundreds of people, industry organisations and stakeholder organisations. We have also invited the parliamentary parties so that they have been able to attend the dialogue meetings. We need to have further dialogue with the parties in order to find a common line. It is important that we get a strategy in place. We cannot opt out of food. We are breaking the 10 million embankment in Sweden this year and are up to 13 million. We need food.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-464	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Ylva Johansson as representative of the government. Again, a young person has lost his life because of street violence and gunfire in the Järva area. Violence has increased in our neighbourhood in a very short time, and weapons have fallen into the hands of young citizens. Of course, family and relatives, but also sad neighbors, frustrated parents, and frightened children and young people. The violence in our streets must stop. A policy is needed to combat crime, but also the causes of crime. And it requires a policy that gives people hope and faith in the future. Otherwise, people's faith in the future disappears. You know what? Akalla is our area, not the area of violence. We must never surrender. We must never let violence decide in our suburbs. It is they who are a danger to our children who are going away. Society must ensure that.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-470	Mr President, I would like to It is a tremendous tragedy that a teenager has been murdered and that a young person has been badly injured in Akalla. It is obviously the task of the police to both prevent and prosecute crimes. There'll be more cops. We also have strategies on illegal weapons. The Crime Prevention Council recently showed that security in Sweden is increasing, which is gratifying. But there is a group where security does not increase, where insecurity increases. It is among people who have come to Sweden from another country. It is therefore important that the police now allocate resources to the 14 areas that are particularly socially vulnerable and that special targeted efforts are made there. Anders Österberg also highlights the need to prevent the causes of crime. It is clear that social vulnerability is serious. What the government does about no young person going unemployed for more than 90 days will significantly affect the conditions, even in Akalla.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-475	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Labour on labour market training. Labour market training is an important part of the budget. They're expensive. And according to Arbetsförmedlingen's own evaluations, you can see no impact of them on jobs. I met the IFAU yesterday. They have no conflicting data on the effects compared to the Public Employment Service. If we look ahead and look at how to use the money available to strengthen the labour market and create better conditions for more people to get into work, does the Minister of Labour consider it a good priority to allocate 1.8 billion of tax resources for measures that do not have any measurable, positive effects on jobs?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-478	Mr President, I would like to Labour market training has traditionally led to around 70% of those who go to work there. The old government, when the Moderates ruled the Ministry of Labour, changed the policy and said that labour market training could only go to those who are very far from the labour market. The Alliance therefore redirected to more employment than actually training people for the job vacancies and responding to employers' needs. It has had devastating consequences, just as Christian Holm Barenfeld describes. There is a very low impact, close to zero, of today's labour market training. This is, of course, an area where the government is planning major changes. Labour market training is needed in a situation where we have major problems with matching in the labour market, in parallel with even greater efforts in regular education. This is the government's focus. We will change the direction of the old government in terms of labour market policy.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-483	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Large parts of Sweden's surface are sparsely populated. For the whole country to live, important social functions are also needed in the sparsely populated areas. Access to the Internet is such an important function of society. It is important for people to choose to settle in rural and sparsely populated areas, for companies to be able to establish themselves and for the whole of Sweden to be able to help create jobs, growth and conditions for a good welfare. In large parts of the country, the concentration of subscribers is not high enough to provide sufficient economic profit as a driver for the establishment of broadband networks. It is therefore important for the state to ensure access to broadband throughout the country. The Government has decided on increased collaboration between government authorities to increase broadband deployment. I fear that cooperation between government authorities is not enough.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-488	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an important question! The fact that we get broadband throughout the country is very central. It is just as important as when we once electrified Sweden. The fact that broadband exists to a large extent in urban and urban areas is a good thing. But it must also come out in Swedish countryside. Today, approximately 38% of households have access to broadband. Here the government is making a huge effort. From the Structural Funds programmes, we are investing 1.2 billion to build the local networks. We are also investing EUR 3.25 billion from the rural development programme to expand broadband in smaller towns where the commercial forces are not interested. This is what I follow very closely as a minister, and there are more ministers who do so, including Mehmet Kaplan, who is the IT minister. We will never ever let this go. We are now also presenting a proposal to build cheaper broadband.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-492	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. I'd like to discuss a little bit about the staff supply investigation. I know it was debated in Sälen on People and Defense. Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to participate at the time. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs wanted a form of military service. Should it be included in the personnel supply inquiry, or how should it actually work? I hope I can get a closer answer because these are questions that we need to be told about in order to know how to deal with this. As far as total defense is concerned, how does this relate to military service? If so, will it affect the work?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-496	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The situation is such that what the government has taken the initiative to investigate is the military personnel supply based on the fact that the departure rate of continuous full-time soldiers is not good. There are certain recruitment problems in the case of temporary soldiers. This, combined with the fact that the units are not fully trained because many of the military backgrounds are war-placed, means that there is an imbalance that we need to review. What we are now investigating is an improvement in staff supply, where we are looking specifically at the Danish and Norwegian model, which combines military military military service with professional organisation. We'll see what that investigation comes up with, and then we'll have to decide how to proceed. That's what we're investigating.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-500	Mr President, I would like to Growth is good. The interest rate is low. And the government bill list is very thin. It is empty of proposals and reforms in terms of simple jobs and new jobs. Sweden is facing challenges in the future. This calls for serious reforms and proposals in this area. My question goes to Ylva Johansson, and it is about simple jobs and new jobs. Earlier during Question Time, Ylva Johansson received a question from my colleague Elisabeth Svantesson. It showed a clear division in the government. The promise says one thing, Minister of Labour Johansson says another thing. The Minister for Labour was also unclear in his reply. She'd rather talk about the Alliance than her own politics. However, the most obvious was the lack of reforms and proposals in this area. So Ylva Johansson : What reforms do you have for new, simple jobs?
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-503	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to disappoint Jenny Petersson. It is not through legislation in Parliament that new ones are created. They are created out in growing companies that can hire. The current situation in the Swedish labour market is that it is an extremely strong growth of new jobs. Unemployment is falling very rapidly. We are seeing a shortage in more and more areas. There are more and more shortage jobs, and the urgent need is for us to ensure that we train people for the jobs that actually exist, so that employers can get relevant staff for the job vacancies. As a result, companies can continue to grow. Government policy, of course, has an impact on the growth of new jobs, but it is not primarily done through new legislation. It is about the investments made by the government in infrastructure, not least in terms of housing construction that was previously debated here. These include investment in training, flexible individual labour market training and cooperation with the social partners. We will need new jobs, both skilled jobs and simple jobs, and they are in the pipeline.
i-2fda88c4876ce6a4-507	That concludes this week's Question Time. I would like to thank the participating ministers.
