i-e82d18e545024e38-24	Madam President, I would like Annika Qarlsson has asked me when I will resume the review of Arbetsförmedlingen and whether I am prepared to streamline Arbetsförmedlingen's assignment to a public authority assignment and let other actors be responsible for training and brokering efforts for performance-based remuneration. Annika Qarlsson has also asked me if I am prepared to test a regional pilot project for alternatives to Arbetsförmedlingen in Malmö. The same questions were asked to me before the summer and answered on 23 June, but I can answer them again. The Government decided on 22 June 2016 on a directive for a special investigator to analyse how the state's commitment and the Public Employment Service's mandate can be designed to contribute as effectively as possible to the smooth functioning of the labour market. The government has appointed Cecilia Fahlberg as special investigator. A general secretary for the investigation has been appointed, and the work on setting up the investigation office is currently under way. The review is broad and starts from the fact that many actors – state, regional, municipal, private and non-profit – have an impact on the functioning of the labour market. In order to ensure in the long term that the overall resources of society are used as efficiently as possible, the investigator should highlight a number of areas. The assignment includes analysing Arbetsförmedlingen's assignments and proposing changes. It also includes analysing how the use of different types of external suppliers in labour market policies, for example for training and mediation activities, can contribute to the proper functioning of the labour market. The assignment also includes proposing changes that can improve the conditions for collaboration and responsibility sharing at local, regional and national level. The government has emphasised the role of municipalities in a well-functioning labour market and in various ways stimulated cooperation between municipalities and the Public Employment Service. The assignment shall be reported no later than 31 January 2019. Some parts of the assignment, including those on external suppliers and the interaction between the state and municipalities, shall be sub-reported by 31 October 2017. The development of labour market policy and change work within the Employment Service also continues during the investigation period.
i-e82d18e545024e38-29	Madam President, I would like It's great to be back in the Chamber! I welcome the fact that the investigation and the review are under way. It's been longing for it to get back on track. We can see that today we are in a boom. We have good development in many parts of the labour market. But we also have concerns. Workers who want to work and entrepreneurs who want to hire must be able to find each other quickly. This is a prerequisite for reducing unemployment and ensuring the skills supply of Swedish companies. They have difficulty in doing so. When there are many job vacancies, unemployment is generally expected to fall. However, since the financial crisis, matching has deteriorated. There are a large number of job vacancies, but unemployment has not decreased to the extent that could be expected. Unless unemployment is pushed down, there is a risk that it will be permanent. This would be a betrayal, especially for the hundreds of thousands of people who are currently openly unemployed or participating in a labour market policy programme. The proportion of companies that use the Employment Service to recruit is falling steadily, and half of the companies that have tried to recruit through the Employment Service report that it has worked poorly. A very small part of small businesses choose to turn to Arbetsförmedlingen. Public confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen is very low. To a large extent, this is the fault of politics. The different and sometimes conflicting roles of the Authority create uncertainty and inefficiency. Unemployed people are forced into programmes and measures that the job creators are rattling. It is not good for the job seekers, who find it harder to find a job. It is not good for companies, which find it harder to find the right workforce. It is not good for taxpayers, who do not get value for their money. And it is not good for the employees of Arbetsförmedlingen, who have been assigned impossible tasks. Now the review of Arbetsförmedlingen has started again. I welcome that. But it's been two years for nothing. My supplementary question is whether the review of the Employment Service was set up because Parliament demanded it through two announcements. Or is the review being added because the Minister for Labour and the current government also believe that a review of the AF is needed?
i-e82d18e545024e38-39	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is quite right that Annika Qarlsson says: We have significant challenges when it comes to matching the labour market. We have record employment rates and a record number of job vacancies. Even though we have high unemployment, it is therefore employers who find it difficult to find the right staff for the jobs. We know that the level of education is one of the most important things – both in general and because many of the job vacancies require special skills in areas where it is not always with the unemployed. A clear watershed also goes between those who have upper secondary skills and those who do not. We will not be able to solve this with labour market policy alone, but we need to invest heavily in the education system that the government is also doing – very big investments in a so-called knowledge boost. This is important. But it's also about changing the way you work so that you can meet employers in a completely different way. This change has already begun at Arbetsförmedlingen. It began immediately when we took office. Large resources are now being invested in recruiting staff with the right skills to meet employers' needs. This year, for example, a new employer centre has been opened in Solna. More will be created, especially to meet and assist employers. Special resources are being recruited locally, which also meet the needs of employers. This is therefore a change that is going on in Arbetsförmedlingen. It is important that the change work within AF does not wait for an investigation but continues all the time. But it is my conviction that we also need to raise our eyes and make a broad review, not just of AF, but of the whole of state labour market policy and the role of the state in labour market policy. It goes without saying that the Public Employment Service is the main actor of the state, but it is not the only actor. It is important to see how both the Agency and the whole labour market policy work and should work in the future. That is why the study has a broad directive and can take its own initiatives in a wide range of areas. I think it is necessary to ensure that we have a labour market policy and a state actor that is well suited not only to the challenges we have today but also to the challenges that we will have tomorrow.
i-e82d18e545024e38-47	Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the investigation is in place. I may find it unfortunate that it would have to take two extra years – it is actually the time that has passed since the former government's appointed investigators were deprived of their mission and that investigation, or the review that was already under way, was closed. There are many different examples that could be alternatives to how one could see it. It is well known that we in the Center Party have long looked at Australia and think that their example can be widely used in a Swedish perspective. Job applicants are placed in different categories and receive different types of support and assistance depending on it. But above all they also have other actors who can work more focused, more together and much more linked to either industries or the customer groups they work with. We have looked at this and taken inspiration from that part. I know that there are many other countries that also have different variations on how to set up the work. However, it is common to use, above all, other players, who may be more specialised and may not have overall responsibility. It has also made it possible to streamline the task of the agency to become a public authority mission, where some parts of it should of course remain in the ownership of the agency but should not necessarily include support and assistance into the companies. If you look at many of the players who are good at getting people who are far away from the labour market in different ways, you can see that a number of them today are complementary players, who are very good at this. We can also see the staffing industry, which has a very good way of working when it comes to those who come here. There may be things they can't, but instead you focus on what they can and use it to help them get in. I think it is about seeing that many different tools are needed in the toolbox in order for us to be able to help all those who are outside the labour market. It is a very varied group and perhaps also a more difficult group, which is further away from the labour market than has been the case at some point in the past. This means that we face major challenges, which are not always just about matching with the right employer, but also about preparing and equipping with the right resources and knowledge to enable this group to take a place in the labour market. There I see that we would need many of these players. Many of them are now concerned, because they feel that their skills are not being used as they would like so that they can help solve Sweden's challenges. As far as the answer is concerned, I would like to clarify whether there is room in the mission to the investigator to propose major structural changes. Or is it a restricted and closed mission? Nevertheless, I see the Minister's reply as an open mission with the opportunity to look at other types of structural measures that may be needed and which will give you a different response to what is currently available. I would also like to have another addition. In the refugee flows that came to Sweden the other year, we have many who are now soon taking the step over and going into the labour market. How is Arbetsförmedlingen equipped to take care of that hump?
i-e82d18e545024e38-55	Madam President, I would like You're well equipped for the hump! The Public Employment Service has, of course, worked to prepare for the fact that there will be many more start-up assignments, and we will come back in the budget proposal with resources for this. It also strives to work more systematically within the start-up mission, and I believe that this is one of the reasons why we can see an improvement in the result: more people who come to work now than two years ago, despite the increase in the number of people they work with. I believe that it is possible to make significant further improvements in the establishment mission. I think it is good to use complementary actors. I have no objection to a large proportion of the resources being spent on complementary actors. However, I think you should watch out for how many actors you work with. When it was at its most, Arbetsförmedlingen had a thousand suppliers, and I mean there are a lot of them. I myself have been to Australia to watch, and what is there to learn is that you work with considerably fewer actors. I believe that there are about 50 players in total in the country who can cooperate more closely with and build long-term relations with the authorities. There are also differences with Australia. There, only those who depend on what would correspond to Swedish support are entitled to any employment agency. The others do not have such a possibility. Of course, I do not want to take this on board, but I think that we should have a broad employment service that not only helps people who depend on support but also very many others – perhaps even wider than today. Another lesson from my visit to Australia last winter was that the complementary operators spent about 25% on administration to respond to a lot of state control measures. That's a high percentage, I think. Control is important, but it must also be balanced against the cost and the time to be spent on control in relation to active efforts for job seekers. It is, of course, as Annika Qarlsson also says, about equipping individuals. Many of those who are currently unemployed need significant efforts to be equipped for the labour market, not least education but also much else. I'll answer the question. Cecilia Fahlberg has gained a great deal of confidence and a broad mandate. The assignment is formulated in such a way that she has great freedom in what she can suggest. There are some parts that are particularly pointed out, but she has a broad mandate to be able to make proposals.
i-e82d18e545024e38-62	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. Part of my question was whether you would dare to test a pilot project. The Minister for Labour has a party partner down in Skåne, in Malmö, who has called for something that coincides with something that the Center Party has long been running. Malmö has so much exciting, so many challenges inherent in its region that would make it extremely convenient with a pilot project. In the answer, everything is hidden inside the investigation, one could say, or put with great confidence in the investigation. Is there any possibility that you actually try different options so that there will also be a larger and better basis when you then come to the conclusions of the investigation? Is there any such opening, where you could try a pilot project in Malmö?
i-e82d18e545024e38-64	Madam President, I would like The government wants to see greater freedom for Arbetsförmedlingen and works gradually on this. We want to see more room for local and regional labour market policy development, preferably in cooperation with the municipalities. Such work has begun and has come quite a long way, but we need to do even more in that direction. The possibility of pilot projects is not at all dependent on the investigation; they can of course be launched anyway. I would like to see a change in the whole of the Public Employment Service in this direction, not just in certain places. But it is interesting that the municipal councillor in Malmö who has called for pilot projects also sits on the Board of Arbetsförmedlingen and on this path has the opportunity to influence Arbetsförmedlingen's entire development.
i-e82d18e545024e38-66	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm has asked me what reforms I want to see in the labour market so that more people without education can get jobs and how I see the statement that labour market policy measures are not effective for them without upper secondary education. I have also been asked whether I will work towards a return to more favourable conditions for using RUT services. Sweden's economy developed strongly in 2015. The demand for labour is now strong and employment is increasing at a good pace. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 120 000 people. More than half of the growth has occurred among women, more than half of those born abroad. At the same time, unemployment is significantly decreasing, not least among young people. Long-term unemployment is also declining after having stuck to very high levels in recent years and is among adults the lowest in the EU. The good development of the labour market is thus broad and affects several groups. The Government's objective that the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy should increase so that Sweden reaches the lowest unemployment rate in the EU 2020 is a steering year for the entire government's work. Everyone who can work should work. Work means opportunities for self-sufficiency, community, belonging and the power to shape one's life and future. Therefore, the government's top priority is that more people should get to work. It is crucial to keep Sweden together. The composition of the unemployed has changed in recent years and unemployment has become increasingly unevenly distributed among the population. An increasing proportion of those who sign up as unemployed at the Employment Service are weakly rooted in the labour market and are in need of support in various forms and scope in order to be able to establish themselves in the labour market. These individuals are to a large extent among those who lack full secondary education and are born out of Europe. At the same time, a report from Arbetsförmedlingen from spring 2015 shows that an annual supplement of 64 000 people of working age is needed to compensate for the demographic situation in Sweden. It is already difficult for some sectors and sectors to recruit, and labour and skills shortages are at risk of increasing significantly. This is where it will be important to take advantage of the power, will and competence of those who come to Sweden. As I said in the interpellation debate on 2 February this year, the government estimates that the number of jobs with lower qualifications needs to be increased, but that does not solve the skills gap that we are currently seeing in the labour market. Fast track for new arrivals to shortage jobs and increased validation efforts are prioritised. Skills-enhancing efforts are also important. Increasing the number of hours worked therefore requires, in particular, efforts to equip individuals with good skills, as these skills are essential both for entering and remaining in the labour market. Efforts on education, which the government is now implementing, are also necessary to ensure that people with the ability to take more qualified jobs do not crowd them out with short training. The Government's investment in, among other things, the Knowledgelift involves both a substantial increase in the number of places of education and measures aimed at higher quality education for adults. Target groups can be newcomers, young people and adults who have discontinued upper secondary school studies as well as individuals who need to train in a transition phase or to develop further education. Education must be available to people throughout their lives. The Government has proposed a right to qualification courses within Komvux, which means that adults are given the right to study with the aim of obtaining basic and special eligibility for higher education and basic eligibility for and special knowledge for education within the University of Applied Sciences. Within the framework of the Knowledgelift, it is also proposed that a new start-up grant be introduced on 1 July 2017. The support aims to increase recruitment for studies among the unemployed with high educational needs, thereby strengthening their ability to enter the labour market. In addition, in August 2015, the government introduced training contracts for unemployed young people with the aim of starting or completing those who do not have upper secondary education. The agreement that the government has with the Moderates, Center Party, Liberals and Christian Democrats includes the proposal that the RUT deduction be extended to include additional gardening services, moving and IT services at home. Modern preparedness work is in line with the recommendations of the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance Policy. Both authorities stress the need to stimulate the emergence of more jobs with lower qualification requirements. Sweden needs more jobs with lower qualification requirements, but not lower wages. The government is now making sure that the state takes the lead and creates modern preparedness jobs through its authorities. It should be jobs with lower qualification requirements on good terms that provide work experience and pay. The government intends to come back with proposals for further measures for higher employment and sustainable lower unemployment in future budget proposals.
i-e82d18e545024e38-75	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. However, the question I asked was what reforms the government intends to make to enable people with low education to enter the labour market. From the answer, the government has no proposals at all. It mentions trainee jobs. In the election movement, the Social Democrats promised 32 000 trainee jobs. According to media data, it has so far reached 125. Is Ylva Johansson satisfied with this result? The second thing that is addressed in the answer is the alert job. They have not yet begun. They're going to be 5,000. The third point is the fast track of establishment, i.e. the attempt to identify educational qualifications in different ways and to get people to work more quickly. The fast tracks are good. From the Liberals' point of view, they are good and important. The problem is, they're too few. They currently cover only 1 735 people. At least that was the case in June. In addition, parts of the trade union movement say no to the fast track. Is Ylva Johansson satisfied that Building says no to fast track for construction workers? Does the government believe that it is to take responsibility for Sweden and to protect the Swedish model? In the biggest build boom in decades, Building says you shouldn't let in any new arrivals. Does the government think it's taking responsibility? If we seriously want the large group of newcomers who have now come to Sweden and who have low education or lack education to have a fair chance of entering the Swedish labour market, we also need to realise that they cannot all train to a job in the Swedish labour market. A lot of people can, but not everyone will. Among those enrolled in the Employment Service today, 148 000 people were born outside Europe. About half of those who are in the establishment, about 30,000 people, have low education or almost no education at all. In any case, they have not completed the corresponding Swedish upper secondary education. In addition, tens of thousands of people in the reception system of the Finnish Immigration Service are not yet included in the employment statistics. We are talking here about the need for hundreds of thousands of new jobs in Sweden in order to meet the increased labour supply. In addition, other jobs have been knocked out, we have had a financial crisis and so on. If the government's response to this is 125 trainee jobs, standby jobs that have not yet started and fast track involving 1 735 people, it is totally inadequate – the Government must also acknowledge that. Should the trade union movement be allowed to have some sort of veto against new arrivals being able to enter the labour market if they have a low level of education? That is what this means in practice. In Dagens i ndustri yesterday it was a big article where LO says no to the government's ambition to get the union on the idea of having jobs with lower qualifications, as the Government mentions in its interpellation answer. The Prime Minister spoke about this this summer, and Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg was commissioned to try to sew it together. Now we read that LO puts the heels in the ground and says shinyly no. Is it taking responsibility for Sweden? We are facing enormous challenges. Can we then allow a kind of trade union special interest to completely stop the possibility for newcomers to enter the labour market? I find this very worrying.
i-e82d18e545024e38-84	Madam President, I would like It is a bit sad that Fredrik Malm is so upset here. The truth is that the Swedish labour market is doing very well. A lot of new jobs are being created, and we have a great demand for skilled workers and also for jobs with lower qualification requirements. It's moving fast. This is, of course, due to the economic cycle, but also to the large investments that the government is making on more employees in welfare, climate change, infrastructure and education. Unemployment will never be solved mainly through labour market policy measures, but the important thing is to pursue an economic policy that provides a demand for jobs in the labour market and a growth in which people can afford to demand goods and services, so that entrepreneurs can sell them and also have to hire people. It will always be the most important means of coping with unemployment, including when it comes to people who are newly arrived in Sweden or who have a low level of education. Labour market policy measures are also needed, but that will never be the main answer to the job question. Education is an important part of this. Of course, there are people who are currently unemployed who have a low level of education where it is not realistic to believe that even with large educational efforts they can reach the level of education normally required for entry into the Swedish labour market. There you have to work to find other jobs and find more jobs with low qualification requirements. When Mom goes to work, it means a lot to the whole family. It means a lot to the kids. It is important that everyone can actually contribute to the labour market. At the same time, however, it should be remembered that of the 163 000 asylum seekers who arrived in Sweden last year, 50 per cent were under 20 years of age and a large majority were under 30. There is a very large group of late arrivals in school. They have a low educational background and were perhaps 16, 17, or 18 years old when they arrived here. Others have turned 20, 21 or 22. For the large group, we are going to make great efforts so that they can actually reach a high school qualification. We're going to invest a lot of money in education. It is also important to consider the age aspect when we look at which groups to invest heavily in education and for which it may not be realistic to think that one reaches all the way even with major educational efforts. There you need to find jobs with low qualification requirements. I don't know where Fredrik Malm got the idea that Building would say no to fast track. They are today in talks with their counterparts. Both the construction industry and Building are currently in talks about how to find more ways into the construction industry for new arrivals. That work is ongoing. I am very hopeful that they will soon arrive.
i-e82d18e545024e38-90	Madam President, I would like No, Building has said no to fast track. On the other hand, other types of dialogue have been held with employers. That's partly another thing. Madam President, I would like What concerns me is that Minister Ylva Johansson seems to be very pleased. She describes that things are going very well in the Swedish labour market. Yes, it does so partly as a result of the economic cycle, but above all as a result of the reforms carried out over eight years of alliance rule. The government that is now sitting has presented a proper state budget. And it is a little hard to say that the labour market is doing very well thanks to the government's infrastructure efforts. People don't get jobs for a land order. The Government mentions climate investments. It's not that. The reason why Sweden is doing well is that we conducted sound economic policies in different ways during eight years of alliance rule, and then our budget continued to apply for almost another year. The truth is: Although the alliance government did very well for Sweden, I am very concerned. We have major structural challenges in the Swedish labour market. We have a very large and growing group of people who are born outside Europe and who have little or no education. Do we want that group to have a chance to participate in building Sweden? Do we want them to be able to get a job and be able to help? Do we want them to be able to get a job with a salary to live on? Do we want people not to be driven out into exclusion and long-term dependency on subsidies? Then we must understand that the labour market we have today is closed to many of these. Thresholds are too high. Let me quote the Director General of the Employment Service, Mikael Sjöberg. He said this earlier this year: The demand for labour without upper secondary education is very low. And labour market policy measures are not effective for those who lack upper secondary education. The demand for labour without upper secondary education is very low. This is confirmed by the OECD, by the IMF, by the Institute of Economic Affairs, by the Council of Finance Policy and, in short, by any expert body except possibly by the LO economists and, except possibly, by the Government itself and the minority she is in. But the Prime Minister has even understood this. He spoke about this last summer. Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg was given responsibility to try to get the parties together and get LO to accept that we will have to make reforms in the labour market, so that this large group gets a chance to get in. But now the union says no. My question then remains to the Minister: Does Ylva Johansson think that this is taking social responsibility? Does the Government believe that it is protecting the Swedish model to say no to the fact that the people who have a low level of education and who come from outside Europe and who have not lived here for a very long time should have a chance to enter the labour market? I find it very worrying. It is a major problem for Sweden if one of the basic bolts of the Swedish model, namely the trade union movement, acts as a special interest and is not prepared to take responsibility for the entire nation in the situation we find ourselves in with the enormous challenges we face. You can certainly criticise employers for a great deal. But the fact is that employers have a much more open and welcoming attitude towards the new arrivals. In their approach to this problem, employers are more a partner than a problem, while the trade union movement is going in to make maximum resistance to any changes that could make it easier for people to enter. I find that troubling.
i-e82d18e545024e38-97	Madam President, I would like I don't know which open door Fredrik Malm is trying to break in. I said in my reply that we need more jobs with low qualification requirements. That's right. There is a low demand for those who lack upper secondary skills – I have quite the same opinion as the Director-General. We will not be able to resolve this with mainly labour market policy measures. We need to solve this mainly by investing in education so that more people can meet the skills requirements that are actually imposed on the Swedish labour market. But this alone will not be enough, but we also need more jobs where there are low qualifications requirements, so that people who do not have full upper secondary skills can be asked for. It is a bit sad about Fredrik Malm's attitude towards the trade union movement. The trade union movement is painted as an obstacle to welcoming new people into the Swedish labour market. That's not correct. The trade union movement actively contributes to the fast track, for example. It is about welcoming and creating good ways into the labour market for new arrivals. I know that LO does, too, and that there is no 'no' to contributing to this. We also have very constructive talks with both trade union representatives and employers' representatives. Not least, we are inspired by the work that has been done in Denmark. My State Secretary made a trip with the parties to Denmark to look at the integration agreement that has just been concluded between the parties to the Danish labour market. There is much that can be learned from and inspired by, I believe, in the agreement they have reached there. I have no idea at all that there are any closed doors. On the contrary, it is an active and constructive effort to find more ways in for those who do not have upper secondary school skills. But we must also invest in more people, especially young people, acquiring upper secondary school skills, which they will need for a long time in the Swedish labour market. These issues do not conflict with each other, but we will have to do both.
i-e82d18e545024e38-101	Madam President, I would like What Ylva Johansson is now saying is very positive, namely that we need more jobs with lower qualification requirements. I fully share that analysis. It is good that we agree on that. But then the Government must answer the question: How is this to be done? So far, three things have been mentioned in the answer that has been delivered to me. There has been a mention of emergency work - 5,000 jobs. They have not yet started. The fast track has been mentioned. This is partly about something else. It is part of the establishment reform. The fast track now involves just over 1,700 people, when we need to create hundreds of thousands of jobs. The third mentioned is the trainee jobs. Ylva Johansson stood at square meetings in the election movement and said: We Social Democrats promise 32 000 trainee jobs. So far there have been 125. Is that the answer to the huge challenge facing our country? It is about being able to bring the large group of newcomers into the labour market. This is one of the most important issues for Sweden in the coming decades. The government's answer cannot just be this. That's completely unreasonable. Is that the answer to people? Yes, it's fine, says the Government. Sweden is now doing great. Yes, we are doing well because we had an alliance government for eight years and because we have a decent business cycle. It's all right. But these are structural challenges. The question we're going to ask ourselves is, do we want things to go well tomorrow and the day after tomorrow? What will it be like in five years' time and in ten years' time if this trend continues? I maintain that it is problematic that within the trade union movement there is strong resistance to lowering the thresholds into the labour market so that more new arrivals can come in and get jobs.
i-e82d18e545024e38-106	Madam President, I would like We'll remember what it was like. It is a bit interesting that Fredrik Malm now wants to discuss how many people are in labour market policy measures. When we had a bourgeois government, we had so high youth unemployment that we received EU support. Other EU countries paid to Sweden to deal with the high youth unemployment. At that point, we also proposed to focus on many labour market policy measures specifically for young people. Instead, we have had a strong development. Other parts of the labour market have gone very well, so that young people get other jobs. Youth unemployment is now the lowest in 13 years. I'm very happy about that. I am pleased that many young people do not need a labour market policy measure but have got a job anyway. I think that's good. There's something I'm happy about. I do not aim to have as many as possible in labour market policy measures. My aim is to have as low unemployment and as high an employment rate as possible. We have a very high employment rate. We have the highest employment rate ever measured in the E UROSTAT system – that is good. But we also have a high level of unemployment. This means that we have a very large proportion of the population in the labour force. That's excellent. This means that we need to do more to match the unemployed with and fit the job vacancies. Therefore, training efforts are extremely important. But that will not be enough, but we also need efforts to create more jobs with low qualifications, as well as jobs with a high qualification level. It is natural for the trade union movement to say no to lower wages. But it does not say no to new ways into the labour market for new arrivals.
i-e82d18e545024e38-111	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether my view is that Sweden will reach the target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The government's target for the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020 remains unchanged. Already when the target was set, it was very ambitious, and the large number of refugees that Sweden received in 2015 will of course make it more difficult to reach the target. But targets should be ambitious, and they should guide the direction of the policy. The government's goal of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU governs economic policy and shows that jobs are the government's most important issue. The development of the Swedish economy is currently very strong, and the demand for labour is good. Employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. In order for unemployment to be able to continue to decrease, we need to invest. It is through balanced social investment that we build a competitive economy and create the conditions for strong economic growth and good demand for labour. Investments in jobs are made within the government's job agenda. It consists of three components: investment in education and active labour market policies; investment in housing and infrastructure; and active enterprise policies for more and growing companies. Investment in welfare is also a central part of the government's employment policy. Today there are many job vacancies in the economy, and many companies are witnessing difficulties in finding the right skills when recruiting, despite the fact that we have many unemployed. Matching in the labour market needs to be improved. Employment services must be in good contact with employers. Efforts in education, skills and skills to meet the needs of the labour market, so that the unemployed can take on the job vacancies that arise, are important. Labour market policy plays a very important role here, not least in equipping the unemployed who find it difficult to find work on their own. Despite good labour market developments, further action will be needed to reach the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. Against this background, the government intends to come back in future budget proposals with proposals for further measures for higher employment and lasting lower unemployment.
i-e82d18e545024e38-116	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, Sweden is doing well. Nine years of alliance budgets have laid a good foundation for this. We also have a global boom to lean back on. It is a fact that this government's economic policy took effect only from the turn of the year, with increased subsidies, financed in the short term by increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It is now that this government's policy is beginning to come true. You can read headlines about, for example, the ROT deduction, which the government deteriorated. Now a quarter of the buyers have disappeared. I have met several craftsmen during the summer. What had disappeared – customers who asked if they could buy black labour – has returned again, and many craftsmen are concerned about this very thing. They thought it was so nice not to be asked to work black. Last night, the Institute's new director on television said that he did not believe that this government would succeed in achieving the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Moreover, he did not think – on one question – that it was a good goal. One can say that is rather heavy criticism of this government's objective. The government's own spring budget states that within a few years 1 million people in Sweden will be excluded – 1 million people! To meet this, this government has announced, among other things, an investment of 5,000 standby jobs. Let me remind you then that one of the Social Democrats' heaviest election promises for the 2014 elections was 32 000 trainee jobs. In two years, this government has managed to get 125 trainee jobs. In addition, exactly zero of these jobs have ended up in the constituency of a Västerbotten County – zero jobs! On the other hand, all employers have received the increased employers' contributions for young people. But it has come exactly zero trainee jobs to Västerbotten. Madam President, I would like Can the Minister tell us how many rescue jobs have ended up in Västerbotten this far or how many she believes will end up in Västerbotten? I also note in the Minister's reply that she does not say either yes or no to the question of whether she believes that Sweden will achieve the government's goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Experts, on the other hand, as the new head of the Konjunkturinstitutet, are very clear. He doesn't believe it. The question is: can the Minister give a yes or no answer? That is not always possible, but, if possible, I would appreciate it, Madam President.
i-e82d18e545024e38-123	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say that, in the construction sector, unemployment is not the major problem, but indeed the shortage of labour. We've finally got a full start on housing. One of the major challenges is the supply of skills to the construction industry, as there is too little spare capacity for construction workers, for example, and many of the jobs required in the construction industry. Edward Riedl says again that the important thing is how many people are in labour market policy measures. I have another vision: The important thing is how many people are in work. Labour market policy is important and labour market policy measures are important. But this will never be the main answer to managing jobs, growth and unemployment in a country. That is why we have an objective of the EU's lowest unemployment which governs the policy of the whole government, not least economic policy. It is also something that delivers. We see very strong developments in the labour market. This is partly due to the economic cycle, but it is also due to investments made by the government. Unlike when the bourgeois government ruled, when we got fewer and fewer employees in welfare, we have now increased the number of employees in welfare by 13 000 people. The hotel and restaurant business was quite heavily subsidised, and one was afraid of what would happen when one had normal employers' fees for young people. We can see that it is an industry that is doing great, and it has also been possible to increase prices, because there is a demand for their goods and services, for which people are prepared to pay. It is the foundation of a functioning economy – that there is a demand for goods and services and that people can afford and want to buy goods and services. As a result, there are many who want to create them and deliver them and who also need to hire people to do so. It is a healthy function in an economy. We have that function now, and it goes very strong. That doesn't mean all the problems are solved. We have people who have more difficulty entering the labour market than others. This applies especially to those who have just arrived in Sweden, the new arrivals. It goes without saying that it takes a certain amount of time. But in my opinion it takes too long before you get to work when you're new to Sweden. It's been up to years. I think we should steer towards a maximum of two years before you get to work. This is an important change that we need to make in order to shorten the time before you come to work when you are newcomers in Sweden. But the foundation – that we have a strong economy, strong growth and strong labour market developments that make record numbers of people have a job today – is good. This means that many people do not need labour market policy measures, and that is also a good thing.
i-e82d18e545024e38-130	Madam President, I would like Yes, Sweden is doing well. I and the Minister are in complete agreement on that. As I said in my last speech: Nine years of alliance budget and global prosperity are the reason why things are going very well. It's really only from the turn of the year 2015/ 16– we're talking about months– that the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government's policy has been. We are currently beginning to see the headlines in the newspapers of this policy, for example that a quarter of the ROT buyers have disappeared. Long-term, of course, it will affect those companies that have had strong tailwinds for a long time. When their buyers disappear, revenue decreases, and this will ultimately lead to fewer employees in those industries. Madam President, I would like The Minister wants to make it sound like I, the Moderates or the Alliance think that labour market policy measures are good. Some cyclical elements may well be good to face with certain such policies, but it was indeed this government's representative who went to elections on that kind of policy. It was the Minister's own party that promised 32 000 trainee jobs – which has become 125, of which zero has ended up in my constituency of Västerbotten. However, all employers in my home county of Västerbotten, as well as in the rest of the country, have to pay the increased employers' contributions. I only note that this government has failed in what it went to elections on– I do not think it was a good policy. Then, Madam President, I just want to say that I think it is just as amazing every year when it comes to summer. Now that it starts to paint for autumn and winter you can be reminded of that. The greenery, the chive of birds and the warmth of the sun are amazing. But I have never ever claimed that it is due to me, the Moderates or the former alliance government that it will be summer. I have never taken credit for either bird witnessing, greenery or the warm rays of the sun. These are things that are beyond the control of the government and its ability to influence. As politicians, it is always tempting to take credit for things that people basically think are good, but you know deep down that it is not your own merit that it looks like that. There is no Swedish government that is responsible for the world economy and how it goes. Yet, Madam President, when the Minister speaks a little, he gets the feeling that Sweden is now doing well and that it is indirectly the government's credit. Very little is mentioned about the global boom, which you have nothing to do with. I would like to remind those following the debate that this government's policy has been working for a few months. It was only at this turn of the year that the government's economic policy took effect. As I said, we have a global boom, and it is not the government's credit. Madam President, I would like Instead of investing in jobs and entrepreneurship, this government has begun to extend the benefit systems again. Work has started to make it less profitable. The employer's contribution for young people has been raised in shock so that it is more expensive to hire young people. Job tax deductions have been reduced, labour taxes have been increased and RUT and ROT deductions have been reduced. It is a policy that will make Sweden less equipped to meet the challenges of the future, and it is a policy that reduces the growth of new jobs in Sweden. Sweden is doing well now, because we have a global boom. But when it turns, what is the government's response to the challenges? That's where the minister's answer is due. What has been promised so far has not delivered any of this.
i-e82d18e545024e38-139	Madam President, I would like We have delivered the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years, despite the fact that the Moderates have warned that it would have devastating consequences if we ended up with generous tax cuts in employers' contributions for young people. We have seen the opposite trend: youth unemployment is falling rapidly, despite the fact that we have a normal social security contribution for young people. This means that we have been able to halve government deficits. When the bourgeois government started, the state had a surplus of SEK 70 billion. When it was handed over to us, the government had a deficit of the same amount. It was not a very successful policy, while unemployment was high and long-term unemployment remained firm. We're starting to turn this around. It goes without saying that we can benefit from a boom. Conjuncture does not depend on the government's initiative, but the policy pursued in a given economic situation plays a major role in the outcome. I would say that the government is pursuing exactly the right policy in this economic situation. We are investing heavily in education in a situation where we have a strong demand for skilled labour. We control building resources for residential building. It is really necessary, both to manage housing for young people, new arrivals and others who need access to the housing market and to create greater mobility in the labour market, so that people have the opportunity to move to work and get where the jobs are. At last, after ten years of very low levels, we have gained momentum in the construction of housing. When the old government ruled, we were in a situation where we had such high youth unemployment – it was up to 25% at its worst – that other EU countries had to pay to Sweden. We received EU support for youth unemployment. I find it embarrassing that we could not do this with our own resources. Now we are finally in a situation where youth unemployment is falling rapidly. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years, and I want it further down. I want to make sure that no young person goes unemployed without getting sensible efforts. It should take a maximum of 90 days. We need to do even more for this, but so far progress is moving very strongly in the right direction. In this situation, calling for more young people to be included in labour market policy measures is, in my view, the wrong way to go. We will need labour market policy measures, but perhaps not primarily in large volumes for young people – many of them are now getting jobs anyway – but perhaps for other groups. This applies, for example, to newly arrived or long-term unemployed who have been stuck in phase 3. There we will need labour market policy measures. But we will also need major training efforts, and that will be delivered by the government.
i-e82d18e545024e38-145	Madam President, I would like The listener could once again hear that this government has delivered. The low youth unemployment rate has been delivered. I would just like to say that this government has not delivered anything, Madam President. What I know has been done so far and which possibly has had any significance is that it has made it more expensive to hire young people. However, we have a global boom which has increased demand in the labour market. This government's economic policy has been in operation for a few months. Let us do an experiment for a moment, Madam President. Let the Minister answer the following question: which of the economic reforms, or any other reform, that the government has implemented in the eight months of its economic policy, is at the root of the decrease in youth unemployment over the last seven or eight years? Which of the government's reforms over the last few months is the basis for the fantastic development that the Minister is talking about? If the Minister is unable to answer the question, Madam President, this is a sham. Then the Minister stands here and takes credit for the fact that it has once again been summer. Next summer, the Minister will once again take credit for the summer. The question, then, is which of the reforms this government has carried out in recent months is the basis for this. Then the Minister is right that policies should be shaped according to the economic situation – of course. That is why all the economic experts in our country are condemning this government's budgetary policy. You borrow in a global boom, which is the worst thing you can do. The most recent of the critics was the new head of the Institute of Economics, who warned yesterday that the government was borrowing in boom. It is the worst thing you can do, because then you have no defence when the economic cycle turns.
i-e82d18e545024e38-149	Madam President, I would like The government changed politics from day one. Labour market policy was reoriented directly when I took office. I changed the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen, and I travelled around and met all the municipalities in Sweden to establish a good cooperation with the municipalities. We started to liberalise labour market policy. From spring, our new budget began to apply, where we are also investing heavily in education. We're betting on the parts that are needed right now. We have speeded up the construction of housing in the municipalities. This is not mainly due to the government's budget, but to other things that have started building housing in the municipalities – but for which the government is responsible. We have now seen a development in which we have many more employees in welfare, which is also due to the fact that large resources have been added to welfare. More people are hired at school and in other areas of welfare, where they are very useful and really needed. It is therefore the right response to this economic situation. If you want to listen to financial experts, you might want to hear everything they say. I do not think there is anyone who supports major, unfunded tax cuts at this stage, when we have a boom. Yet the Moderates continue to conduct exactly that policy. It is directly counterproductive in the current economic situation.
i-e82d18e545024e38-153	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther has asked me where it is supposed that the more than 100 000 long-term unemployed will receive their work training, traineeships or employment if neither the promise of work integration efforts nor additional services are fulfilled. Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether I intend to take any action in relation to the figures presented by the Public Employment Service on the few additional posts and whether the promise of 20 000 additional posts during the term of office will be met. Furthermore, I have been asked whether, in my duties as Minister of State, I have made the right assessment of the possibilities of replacing phase 3 employment with additional services. Every human being is a resource, and anyone who can work should work. A job means the opportunity for self-sufficiency, belonging, community and the power to shape one's life and future. Therefore, the government's top priority is that more people should get to work. A country with high employment rates, high participation rates and low unemployment is becoming richer, safer and more transparent. It is crucial to keep Sweden together. The Swedish economy and labour market are developing positively. Employment is growing at a good pace and demand for labour is high. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 120 000 people. More than half of the growth has occurred among women and foreign born. At the same time, unemployment is significantly decreasing, not least among young people. Long-term unemployment is also declining after having stuck to very high levels in recent years and is among adults the lowest in the EU. The good development of the labour market is thus broad and affects several groups. Despite the good development of the labour market, the fact remains that the composition of the unemployed has changed and unemployment has become increasingly unevenly distributed among the population. Participants with low levels of education represent an increasing proportion of the long-term unemployed in the Job and Development Guarantee. Active labour market policies combined with education and training are important cornerstones for strengthening and thus bringing the long-term unemployed into the labour market. Unlike the previous government, which considered it sufficient to keep people in employment without development opportunities in the former phase 3 of the Job and Development Guarantee, the government believes that the long-term unemployed should be offered real jobs or training but also be able to take part in active measures that bring them closer to the labour market. Today there are around 1 000 additional services in the country's municipalities. Although the number of additional services is still lower than desired, they increase steadily every month. This is an increase that can be expected to continue. Since 1 February, the government has stopped the influx of new participants into phase 3, and the employment places will be completely decommissioned until 31 January 2018. At the same time, the government is increasing the opportunities for those who have been unemployed for the longest time to take part in work training. People who are far removed from the labour market often need a number of complementary actions. The Government believes that work training is an important building block which, unlike employment places, requires organisers to adapt efforts to the needs of the participant to get closer to the labour market. Further changes from 1 February this year are the elimination of the phase breakdown of the job and development guarantee and the requirement at a specific level of activities and the possibility for all participants in the job and development guarantee to study part-time for six months alongside participation in the guarantee. The government has also extended the possibility of studying Swedish for immigrants within the guarantee from six to twelve months. In addition, a new investment in vocational courses in shortage professions at folk high schools for up to 24 months has been launched. In mid-August, an opportunity was introduced for participants in the Job and Development Guarantee to study up to one year full-time in municipal adult education at basic or upper secondary level or equivalent education within folk high school while maintaining activity support. Since August last year, only participants in the previous phase 3 have had the opportunity to conduct studies in this way. Since 1 June 2016, the government has expanded trainee jobs and career introductions to the long-term unemployed and newcomers. I would like to emphasise once again that the government believes that there are many work integration social enterprises that are doing an amazing job in strengthening and creating jobs for people who have been unemployed for a long time. Many of the companies currently organising employment places in previous phase 3 are also job training organisers in the Job and Development Guarantee. In this way, the extension of work training opportunities is an important contribution to the exploitation of existing work-inclusive social enterprises. In addition, the Government decided to carry out a three-year investment in which a total of SEK 60 million is contributed to employment promotion efforts through work integration social enterprises. In collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen, the Swedish Agency for Growth has been tasked with drawing up and implementing a national programme of measures that stimulate the start and growth of more work integration social enterprises, thereby increasing the number of employees. With the changes that are now taking place, I believe that work integration social enterprises should be able to continue to play a very important role in giving those who are far from the labour market a way back. Overall, government policy means several new initiatives but also that the retention of people in jobs that do not lead further ends. It is a big change that Arbetsförmedlingen can now offer initiatives based on each individual's needs and that conditions are provided for more people to get a job or start studying.
i-e82d18e545024e38-163	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for the answer! This may be a different interpellation debate than the Government is used to, because I think the bulk of it is positive. I am in favour of the government taking these initiatives specifically for the long-term unemployed. Of some 400 000 unemployed, around a quarter of them are long-term unemployed, with some form of job barriers that have prevented them from entering the labour market for a long time. Additional efforts are needed for these people. That is why I am extremely pleased that the government has continued the effort on the labour integration social enterprises launched by the Alliance Government. I myself attended the meeting in January in which Minister Johansson, together with Minister Damberg, launched this initiative. The problem is not that initiatives have been taken for these groups. The problem is that, at the same time, 60 million in three years is allocated to support start-up and development through, for example, business checks for work integration social enterprises. This removes the carpet in other ways, which completely detracts the basis for these companies with the business idea itself. There is something called a dual business concept in work integration social enterprises. The dual business idea is that the company must have a business idea like any other company, where you have an idea about producing products and services, and to be able to sell services in work training, rehabilitation and other areas. I share the view of the Government that Phase 3 has not been an ideal solution for many people at all. But in this case, when phase 3 has been used in the ASF context and it has actually created stability for these people according to the method that work integration social enterprises are working with, to get people to be able to work to 100% of their ability, phase 3 has worked very well. Now that we have arranged for companies to be able to receive people and receive compensation, these people are in principle put on the ground. There is no one else who wants to receive them, and labour-integrated social enterprises cannot continue to receive people when they do not receive any compensation. This is a lack of management that is not optimal at all. In addition, the need for work training and practice is enormous. There, work-inclusive social enterprises have a huge chance of receiving more, but there is never any support for managers or supervisors, which is the guarantee that these small enterprises can have stability in life at all. I would like an answer from the Minister on how the government intends to address these problems in order to achieve its aims.
i-e82d18e545024e38-168	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. One of the most important conditions for participation and inclusion in society is having a job, employment and co-workers. Anyone who for a long time lacks work for various reasons must receive individually designed help and support in order to be able to come back. The Minister for Employment also writes that very clearly in his reply. This is something that I do not quite understand in the last paragraph.It is a big change that Arbetsförmedlingen can now offer efforts based on each individual's needs. Does the Minister mean that this is not how the Employment Service has worked in the past? In that case, it is a good thing to make a review of what it actually looks like. In the 2014 election campaign, the tone was high from the current Minister for Labour regarding the promise to abolish phase 3. It was in many parts not very good at all. There were those who liked their phase 3 providers very well, but there were also those who didn't get what they needed; that's how it is. If the Social Democrats won the elections, everyone would get a real job. Additional services would be the name of the new measure. Work was to be done in the welfare sector, but it was mainly in the care of the elderly that I heard it was about. They look similar to previous plus jobs and standby jobs. If the Minister, like me, believes that individual solutions, advice and support are important for those who have been out of the labour market for a long time, why is the care of the elderly an appropriate sector? That's where we need more qualified hands. But if you have been very far from the labour market and have not worked at all in elderly care before, it will be extremely difficult for those who should be supervisors but also for the individual to go into a very labor-intensive environment such as elderly care as a first job after a long period of sick leave or long-term unemployment. Will the regular staff be able to introduce those who have a great need for support and help when it's very tough out there? In general, the non-profit sector has done a very good job in phase 3 in terms of employment and humanity. I think Penilla Gunther has spoken very well about social enterprises, which is a good example of job integration at its best. In addition, there is precisely the participation and cohesion that many people who have been far removed from the labour market need. Today, the loud electoral promise has not been fulfilled more than to a very small extent. I have new figures from Arbetsförmedlingen and from a report that we let RUT do. Many people tell of the stressful uncertainty involved in phase 3 decommissioning. Many were satisfied with their organizers, while others felt that it was really bad. When, after many years of absence from the labour market, one finally got started, got routines and workmates, one had to go home and wait. In December 2015, a total of 1,738 people left the employment phase. This compares with 3,858, which left in May 2016. The liquidation has thus gone faster than expected. The majority of those who left the phase in 2016 went to the action programme and activity support. This compares with December 2015, when most people went to be openly unemployed, so there has been an improvement. In total, nearly 20 000 have left the employment phase from December 2015 to now in 2016. What we are seeing today is that very few extra services have been added by the promised 20 000. What does the Minister think is the reason for this?
i-e82d18e545024e38-177	Madam President, I would like I would like to return a positive answer to Penilla Gunther. I know that she has a genuine commitment and a great deal of knowledge on the issues, not least with regard to the integration of work into social enterprises. I very much appreciate Penilla Gunthers's strong commitment to this. I'm worried too. I meet individual employers in social enterprises who have been given the task by local representatives of the Employment Service that you cannot continue to be in the company unless you have an employment position in phase 3. But of course you can. That's why we've just opened up for work practice. Many work integration social enterprises have in practice worked with work training, although it has not been called that, because they have a great social commitment to these people. I also understand that there has been a misunderstanding locally that everyone who has been in phase 3 would enter an extra service. Not everyone will be suitable for it, and not everyone will. This is an issue which I take very seriously and which concerns me. I have also raised the issue with the Director-General of the Employment Service to ensure that the information goes out properly that we will of course continue to work with good work integration in social enterprises in this way. It is important to see the change that is now taking place in the composition of the long-term unemployed. Of those who have so far been in phase 3, half are born abroad. This means that the possibility of combining the effort with, for example, studies in Swedish is important in order to permanently strengthen one's position, because even if one has participated in some SFI teaching before, one loses the language if one is not allowed to use it. The combination of being at a workplace and being able to strengthen language skills is important. To Lotta Finstorp, I would like to say in answer to the question that the very definition of phase 3 was in the regulation such that when a person arrived, the Employment Service was not allowed to make any other contribution for that person. There was a stop to all other efforts. The only thing you had to do was put in an employment position. That is what I have now changed; I have removed that ban. The whole toolbox is now available to these people. The very definition of phase 3 was that no other labour market policy measures were allowed, and I have removed that. All labour market policy measures are available to these people. This means that an individual assessment can be made. I have also opened up new paths in terms of education and training in particular, because we see that many people who are far from the labour market have been away for a long time or have never got into it, which is often also the subject of this, need to strengthen their skills, not least in terms of professional skills. We have created new great opportunities for vocational training, for example in folk high school for up to two years. We also come later with proposals for so-called start-up support that provides good financial opportunities to participate in education, not least for people who have been in phase 3. However, quite different efforts may also be needed. Now, as I said, we open the whole toolbox, and that's the important thing. It is still my assessment that we will achieve 20 000 additional services. But some changes will be needed. The government returns with further proposals in the budget bill.
i-e82d18e545024e38-184	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for your answer again! I would like to take this opportunity to highlight a few things that have a bearing on what happens after phase 3. A lot of people have opinions about Samhall. I am in favour of Samhall's basic mission, but unfortunately, after having had direct contact with the Director-General and so on, I find that Samhall has been given a changed mandate in recent years. This means that those who are farthest from a regular job have ended up in phase 3 and come out of there only for a work training. They are not sent from Arbetsförmedlingen to Samhall, because they are often in too bad condition, physically, mentally, socially and so on, in order to keep up the pace Samhall requires for the services or production carried out in Samhall. As a result, you sometimes take the opportunity to send these people to a work-integrated social enterprise. And it would be nice if the compensation had been in parity with the one that Samhall receives for his people who are in better shape, if I may put it that way, than the very people that these small companies receive. Once again, I would like to stress the stability required to be able to conduct a business with good profitability, in any case, that the business goes around. It's still a company we're talking about with business that needs to be able to go around. That's the very idea of this. D you have to have people who can work at least a few hours a day in order for the business to be maintained and to be able to live up to the concepts of 100% of each person's ability and so on. Here, I dare say, there is still a lack of knowledge at Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan. Although there are national coordinators in each authority to work on the issue, it obviously does not reach out to the respective officials at local level. I'm not asking the government here to have a Harry Potter staff to make sure everyone knows and knows everything at the same time. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance of there being a knowledge throughout the country where people can feel that they are being treated equally. There is a great deal of contact between labour-integrated social enterprises. They are keen to have the same conditions for their activities and for the people they receive in companies. That is why I wonder: how could the Government contribute to a greater equivalence of the conditions for labour-integrated social enterprises across the country, on which we agree, are important as post-phase 3 interventions?
i-e82d18e545024e38-192	Madam President, I would like I am surprised at how pleased and confident the Minister seems to be despite the fact that only 773 additional services of the promised 20 000 are in place. We are in a boom today. Those who have upper secondary school skills and speak Swedish today do not find it difficult to get a job. Those we talk about in the debate are those who are furthest from the labour market for various reasons. The majority of those who left phase 3, or the employment phase, have recently been in programme and activity support. They have activities of an average of 74%. When you read in social media about these issues, you can see that many people are upset that they receive 75 percent of a full - time salary when they receive an extra job. That's about $1,500 a month. This is lower than those in the employment phase today in activity support. Those with the highest activity compensation receive a reduction. My question to the Minister is whether the Minister thinks it is problematic that this is the way it is. Half the term of office has passed, and there were only 773 extra posts in June. What concerns me a lot is that it is SKL, municipalities and county councils, which will ensure that the extra services come out and that there are supervisors in place. We know it's heavy out there. There's a lot to do. There is a large influx of elderly people in care for the elderly who have needs and receive assistance in the form of, for example, special housing. It is time to analyse why additional services are not added. Already in August 2015, SKL warned that municipalities and county councils will find it difficult to obtain the 20,000 additional services that it is already planned for. I read in the paper Work an interview with Agneta Jöhnk, who is responsible for employer issues at SKL. She says, "I don't really know what it's supposed to be like. If the long-term unemployed are to start working, they need guidance and introduction. And it's not just getting together. ..................................................... Having space to supervise a new employee without adequate training and experience when the workload is high is a problem in itself. You can tell when you're listening. I'm with the Moderates responsible for questions about sick leave. You can look at what sick leave looks like in the public sector among, for example, middle managers. Mental ill-health, which states that the workload has triggered ill-health, is a major problem in society. Moreover, if they are to be given responsibility for several people who may never have worked in, for example, care for the elderly, there may be an additional burden. I would like to hear what the Minister has to say about that. How can you solve it? The idea of extra services is absolutely right. It could be. Preparedness jobs were good in their time, and the plus jobs also had their function. But how is that supposed to happen? Unless municipalities and county councils feel that they have room to receive and in a good way introduce people who do not have adequate education, and who may never have worked in special housing in elderly care, it is a problem in itself. I think I'll stay there and wait for the minister's answer.
i-e82d18e545024e38-199	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Penilla Gunther that I fully share the view that Samhall is needed and should be designed to reach those people with disabilities who have the most difficulty in getting jobs in any other way on the labour market. Now Penilla Gunther states that you do not accept those people who would be farthest from. That is a very worrying task. I take that task very seriously. I will therefore set up a review to ensure that Samhall will really work with the people who are farthest from. It is the very raison d'être for Samhall to do this. Work-inclusive social enterprises need sustainable and secure financing and sustainable and secure conditions. It's companies, but it's about having good rules. It is above all that the specific targeted money should be spent on. Labour market policy will never be the secure and lasting funding. It is always based on the needs of the unemployed individual. However, since many of the work-inclusive social enterprises can offer very appropriate measures for people who are far from the labour market, they should also be used in the many cases where they are suitable suppliers. That's what I want to see. We hope that we will achieve it. Let us consider whether further initiatives are needed to do so. To Lotta Finstorp I want to say: No, I am not satisfied, but I am confident that we will also meet the difficult challenges and that politics works. Lotta Finstorp describes the workload of elderly care well. Working in care for the elderly is very difficult. This is why, among other things, the government provides new resources for increased staffing. We need more people working in the care of the elderly. We need a more frequent staffing. We also need more people who are properly trained. We are therefore making a great deal of effort also in terms of vocational training. It is a challenge to supervise a new person whether it is someone in education or someone who would enter another extra service. This is something that the government discusses mainly in dialogue with the municipalities and the counterpart Kommunal. The government will come back to these issues in the budget bill.
i-e82d18e545024e38-205	Madam President, I would like I am really pleased and grateful that the Government is taking this seriously. I really appreciate it. I feel that so many people have such a great potential to get to their right if they just got to feel the feeling of working 100 percent of their own ability. If it is two, four or six hours a day, it may be that person's own feeling and perception of what it can do. But I wish so much that more people would feel the opportunity to get into that context. The Damberg Government appointed Lars Bryntesson to come up with proposals for improvements for our work integration social enterprises. Those of us who are involved in this think it is very important and interesting to know what further proposals you have. One thing that many of us and not least the association Skoopi have printed on is to get a definition for ASF in Sweden as well as it has in Finland, for example. There is a specific legislation that protects these companies and can also provide specific conditions, as it is for the people it concerns who are inside the ASF. If there is anything I would like to send further from this interpellation debate, perhaps it is precisely that the ASF has its own special conditions for caring for special people as well.
i-e82d18e545024e38-208	Madam President, I would like We have produced a RUT report on people who have left the employment phase and what it looks like at present. It is based on the statistics of the Public Employment Service, which the Minister is of course aware of. What is interesting, I think, is that by May this year 627 new ones had entered the flow of employment. 3 858 have left and 24 914 are still in the log. It is those who are farthest from the labour market that I am concerned about, as the Minister also expresses. Others will fix this. You can get upper secondary school skills and Swedish, we are in a boom and there is work. The vast majority will solve it on their own, but those who have been long-term unemployed for a long time are, of course, the most difficult ones. The government maintains its goal of Sweden having the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Then it is a pity that the reduction in RUT and ROT has led to one in four buyers of ROT services having disappeared since the deduction decreased – not here in Stockholm probably, because here a lot is being built, but in the country the smaller companies notice that they cannot hire as they did earlier because they have fewer customers. The ceilings need to be raised in order for more people to be able to afford to use these services. This will create more customers and there will be more jobs for more people. Work integration social enterprises would also benefit if a double increase in the ceiling could be made, for example, within RUT. Finally, I note that the Minister is not satisfied but safe. Possibly it helps those furthest from the labour market to ensure that the Minister is safe. I don't know.
i-e82d18e545024e38-215	Madam President, I would like I would like to take seriously what Lotta Finstorp says about the fact that there is an influx into long-term unemployment. This is mainly due to the fact that, unfortunately, after two years in the start-up assignment, a majority has not been allowed to go to work or training. Over the past two years, we have increased the proportion of people going to work or training within the two-year period of the start-up assignment, but it is still a smaller group. This is very serious. I would like to see that it is normally possible to reach education or work within the two-year span of the start-up assignment. Now we move on from there into what is defined as long-term unemployment. It is very serious that we cannot make it, and that is why changes in the start-up mandate are needed so that more people can get to work or training during that two-year period. I would like to agree with Penilla Gunther in particular on the importance of being able to work a hundred percent of their own ability, to be needed and requested and to get paid. That's what we humans need, and it makes you grow stronger. It is also something that makes Sweden stick together and people can walk with a straight back. I fully share that view. I would like to thank you for this debate. I think it has been constructive, and I would also like to thank you for the contributions that Penilla Gunther has given me.
i-e82d18e545024e38-218	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that the Swedish Armed Forces' preparedness for interventions in support of society and for protection against accidents is adequate. Support for society is an important task for the Swedish Armed Forces, and the agency has implemented extensive support in recent years. The Swedish Armed Forces shall be able to provide support for civilian activities with the Authority's existing capabilities and resources. In the event of civil protection situations and counter-terrorism, specific legislation exists. The Authority may also provide support in other situations, as laid down in the so-called "Support Regulation". In addition, there is a specific decision on support with helicopter resources to the police. During 2014, the Swedish Armed Forces carried out several significant and called for support to the community, covering more than 99 000 hours for home Guards. One of the major support efforts took place at the fire in Västmanland. On July 31, the fire started in the area west of Sala, and already in the morning of August 1 the Swedish Armed Forces started to act together with other actors. The Swedish Armed Forces' personnel and helicopters fought fires in a number of places in the fire area and saved, among other things, those in distress who were locked in by the fire. However, we must bear in mind that the main task of the Swedish Armed Forces is to maintain and develop a military defence and that the basis for that is the ability to wage armed combat. The Swedish Armed Forces shall defend Sweden and promote Swedish security. The Swedish Armed Forces shall detect and reject violations. The agency must also be able to protect Sweden's sovereign rights and Swedish interests and be able to prevent and manage conflicts and wars both nationally and internationally. Employers' policy in the state is delegated to the authorities. It is the authorities that employ, pay, develop and phase out staff based on current regulations in the form of regulations and collective agreements. The Swedish Armed Forces shall ensure that the competence is available to achieve the objectives of the operation. Wage formation at the agency can be an important element in this respect. Salary as well as other conditions regulated by collective agreements is a matter for the Swedish Armed Forces as an employer and relevant employee organisations that I cannot or should not interfere with. I assume that the Swedish Armed Forces will make relevant assessments and priorities regarding the support to society that the Agency can provide based on existing capabilities and resources.
i-e82d18e545024e38-223	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the answer to my interpellation! Before 2004, the Swedish Armed Forces had extensive support for civil society. Among other things, the Swedish Armed Forces' helicopters were used to retrieve patients in the archipelago, within the framework of mountain rescue and within the framework of sea rescue, and more or less regularly they also participated, for example, in the extinguishing of forest fires, as the Minister of Defence mentions. But in 2004, under a Social Democratic government, this Parliament decided that support for civil society could no longer be dimensional for the Swedish Armed Forces. This concerns the Minister of Defence in his speech. It may seem quite logical that an operation built up as the Armed Forces to deal with the armed battle and military defence should not be dimensioned for civilian tasks. But the fact is that this restriction, Madam President, has now gone so far that when you visit, for example, the helicopter unit in Luleå at Kallax Airport, they tell us that although they know that they will go out every summer and extinguish forest fires both in northern and southern Sweden, they may not even plan their vacation after this relationship, because it is considered to be dimensional. What happens is that when the forest fire extinguishing becomes relevant, you should call in people from their vacation, and then they should participate in the effort. As a result, this whole problem, which today means that staff are not available because the working conditions offered are too poor, is linked to the idea that the Armed Forces must not be dimensioned against support for civil society. For example, if holiday plans could have been made for the helicopter drivers, there would have been continuous staff in the summer. The staff would then have been able to make a difference, and everything would have been peace and joy. I would point out in my interpellation that it is, of course, primarily a task and a responsibility for the parties to sort out such problems, which are very low stakes. But I am a little surprised that the Minister for Defence does not see it as a problem when the Chairman of the Union of Officers goes out publicly and says that today the staff leave their phones at home, that they make themselves unreachable in different contexts. It would be good, Madam President, if the Minister for Defence could at least confirm that he, too, regards it as a concern. I would like to conclude by saying that the Minister of Defence has repeatedly returned to putting the armed battle as the task of defence against support for civil society. In my world, Madam President, there is no contradiction between the two. When you implement forest fire's healing, when you participate in sea rescue you practice all the management functions in the dressings, and you make many important experiences. When Peter Hultqvist was part of the Defence Committee, he agreed with all the other parties that there should be a review of support for civil society and of the rules that apply. I would like to ask the Minister for Defence whether he is still of the opinion that a review is necessary or whether he feels that there is no reason to take any action whatsoever in view of the problem that has arisen.
i-e82d18e545024e38-231	Madam President, I would like If I am going to go through some facts about the various efforts that are being made, I can say that the Swedish Armed Forces have, to date, provided support from LSO on 64 occasions, based on the support regulation on 58 occasions and support with helicopter on 13 occasions. The Swedish Armed Forces have thus assisted with support to society on 125 occasions so far in 2016. That is what has been going on in 2016. In 2015, the Swedish Armed Forces provided ground-based support on some seventy occasions. In 2014, there were about eighty occasions. The majority of these were looking for missing persons and amounted to 33,328 hours. Helicopter support was provided on six occasions. The Swedish Armed Forces also provided comprehensive support to the Migration Agency, which was coordinated with the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness. The description should therefore not land in a picture that the Swedish Armed Forces do not contribute in any way or that I do not see it as reasonable that they contribute. I never said anything about seeing it as a problem or not that people leave phones at home and so on. I have not touched on that at all. Of course, I see different dimensions in this. Solutions must be found in some way. It is in this way that it is the parties who are to deal with the issues of collective agreements. I have a set of rules to adapt to, as Widman knows. With the zeal that KU notifications sometimes come to the surface, I know that if I say something – or are tempted to say something – outside of that regulatory framework, some helpful person will register with the Constitutional Committee because I have interfered with issues that I have nothing to do with. I want to have said that so that we can also get that dimension into the debate. When it comes to dimensioning in the Swedish Armed Forces, Widman now proposes that we have other dimensioning standards in relation to the Swedish Armed Forces where we weigh in the civilian. When detailed reasoning on holiday planning within the Swedish Armed Forces is introduced and Widman has some kind of question about what possible views I have on it, I must ask whether Widman considers it a reasonable question to deal with in Parliament. I am not prepared to go into that kind of detail ad discussion. Mr Widman knows very well that the government sees that a review of the whole of the defence system must be carried out. It is included in the specialization bill that was adopted last year. In June this year, the Swedish Armed Forces and MSB presented an initial analysis. We are now working on it in order to be able to return. It's about two dimensions. One is support for the military defence of the civilian side. The second concerns emergency and emergency aid in various forms. There is therefore work in progress on this. Finally, I would like to ask, because it is becoming a bit of a top priority here: what did the last government do about this in 2006–2014?
i-e82d18e545024e38-239	Madam President, I would like The answer to Peter Hultqvist's last question is: not so much! However, I want it to be absolutely clear that I have not tried to claim that the Swedish Armed Forces are not helping. It's not about that. This is about the support that the Armed Forces provide to civil society in the event of crisis, accidents and the like and whether it is optimal or not. Madam President, I would like The problem that exists within the Swedish Armed Forces and which the Chairman of the Association of Officers confirms is that the compensation for this type of intervention is so low that many see it as impossible to serve. It is a matter of hundreds a day, even if it is a weekend, and it is a matter of weekend service that does not provide compensatory leave. I can see how the whole problem is linked to the fact that the Swedish Armed Forces are not even allowed to plan to support civil society. Peter Hultqvist says that Allan Widman only talks about a lot of details and wonders if this holiday planning is really worthy of being discussed in a parliamentary debate. In his introduction, Peter Hultqvist brought up Västmanlandbranden. Yes, precisely because the Armed Forces were not allowed to scale against support for civil society, it turned out that neither our newest Helicopter 14 nor Helicopter 16 were equipped to extinguish forest fires. There were no water bags for those helicopters. This is a consequence of the absence of any review of the regulatory framework for support to civil society. Madam President, I would like Again, for me there is no contradiction between this type of operation and the armed battle. For a helicopter driver there is little difference between dropping depth charges from your helicopter or dropping water bags. I am also prepared, here and now, to promise the Minister for Defence not to report to the Constitutional Committee if he were to confirm that this is a problem that must be followed up by society. If we do not obtain resources from the Swedish Armed Forces in the event of a major forest fire, then we may suffer significant damage for many hundreds of millions, it is an important problem in our entire crisis preparedness. I'd love to see the Secretary of Defense send that very signal. I do not know whether, when he spoke at his conclusion about total defence planning and the planning of a new civil defence, he really meant that within it there should also be a review of the existing rules on support for civil society. If that is the case, it is of course very good. I would be grateful if the Minister for Defence would clarify this point.
i-e82d18e545024e38-246	Madam President, I would like What is optimal or not, one must always ask oneself when it comes to the Armed Forces and the activities of the various authorities. I do not believe that there is anything that reaches the very optimal, but it is always a process of change and development. As far as total defence is concerned, we have a great need to do things. There's a big bet there, a great potential for improvement, let's say. I do not wish in any way to underestimate what is being done in the field of civilian preparedness and the various efforts that the Swedish Armed Forces, MSB and others are doing. That is also why I was careful to list those opportunities, so that the nuances come into the debate. But I also do not believe that there is any equality in either the Swedish Armed Forces' organisation or in other organisations that means that all problems are solved and that it is now good. On the other hand, I believe that everyone has an interest in moving forward and solving the problems. Everyone also has an interest in resolving the negotiations on the economic conditions. Everyone also has an interest in looking at whether it is necessary to change regulations and other things within the whole concept of total defence, including civilian preparedness. What this should look like in detail and what should be done about it can then be returned to, but we have taken a first step with the analysis presented in June. Now we will prepare it to see how to proceed with different sections and what the order of priorities should be. There is also another thing in the picture, and that is that if you are going to build something, it also takes money. Why I am a little cautious about the issues of the agreement is that if you, as a political representative, go in and point a little too much in different negotiating situations and try to take over responsibility, you raise the issue from the parties. This is not the model we have chosen in Sweden. We have a model where the parties will take responsibility for the settlements. It also means that they can manage them afterwards. During a process like this, there are many points of view in the debate from the respective parties because they want to clarify their position or to in some way favour positioning. You have to see that, too. I see the problems. Widman doesn't have to hesitate about that. But the hearing itself must be handled by others. When it comes to using the word worthyly in connection with holiday planning, I have never valued what is worthy of addressing in Parliament. What I'm saying, however, is that it may not be my role or ours to have too much opinion on the planning of holidays within the Swedish Armed Forces. Of course, you can talk about everything. It is not a question of dignity; it is more about the roles and responsibilities of different levels. I believe that the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities did a very fine job at Västmanlandsbranden. For example, the Home Guard set aside 99 000 hours. This has been evaluated to see if there were any shortcomings. Where were there problems and what conclusions can be drawn from it? This is about the way you deal with various operations, and in the next step you try to draw conclusions afterwards on how to improve things. On this point, I do not think there is any resistance from anyone.
i-e82d18e545024e38-255	Madam President, I would like Lesson is learning. It is an important phenomenon, not least in the field of crisis management and defence, and that is precisely what I am trying to make this debate about. I understand that Peter Hultqvist does not want to discuss holiday planning or collective agreements, but he must understand that the regulations that exist in this area are involved in creating a problem because it is not possible to plan his holiday after forest fire extinguishing, as is known to return summer after summer. It is a problem that the Swedish Armed Forces must not buy water bags for the helicopters because it would then be dimensional for support to civil society. Madam President, I would like I know that the Minister of Defence cannot and will not interfere with trade union issues. However, I believe and hope that this debate has nevertheless helped to focus on a problem that can grow and become much bigger for our overall emergency preparedness, and by that I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-e82d18e545024e38-259	Madam President, I would like This issue is important in many dimensions because it concerns general emergency preparedness. Interpellation is primarily about civil activities. But there are also other dimensions in the whole. In debates like this, you have to embrace the whole and the spirit and see how to work on different types of issues with respect for where different borders go. As I understood it, it was employer policy that was at the heart of the interpellation. Then it is important to repeat that it is the authority that hires, pays, develops and dismantles staff based on existing regulations, regulations and collective agreements. Then it is a matter of agreeing on the balancing act in exercise days versus action days and what such harmonisation should look like. I hope that the parties will find a solution. That will must be on both sides. I have also explained in the debate here the support which the Swedish Armed Forces de facto provide. I thought it was important to find out. I have also explained what is stated in the proposal on focus 2016 – 2020, i.e. that these are development areas and that we should start building total defence concepts. I assume that the Swedish Armed Forces, with all the expertise and the strength that is there, will make relevant assessments and priorities in the work on these issues of support to society based on the capabilities and resources that they have within the agency. Thank you very much.
i-e82d18e545024e38-265	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I and the government are prepared to take to strengthen the defence's access to long-range artillery. In June 2015, the Riksdag decided on the defence policy direction for the period 2016 – 2020. The government is now continuing the implementation of the policy in accordance with the decision. As regards the Archer project, the Government has announced in connection with the 2015 Spring Change Budget that Norway intends to terminate its cooperation with Sweden regarding Archer. The Government is currently preparing the scope and consequences of any increased material commitment for Sweden and will then return to the Riksdag.
i-e82d18e545024e38-266	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defense, for the answer to my interpellation. It was short, but perhaps not entirely nuclear. Nevertheless, I choose to try to interpret what the Minister says on the short lines. I am then caught up in the sentence that the government is currently preparing the scope and consequences of any increased material commitment for Sweden and then intends to return to Parliament. Madam President, I would like If you read between the lines you can draw a number of different conclusions, partly that any export of the former Norwegian Archer pieces – the haubits – is not possible because it involves an increased Swedish commitment to the material, and partly that it is obvious that Sweden will keep the pieces and that it is associated with costs. Then the question is: What will happen when these artillery yeasts are made and delivered to the Swedish state? Will they be put in a moth bag? Will you use spare parts from the Norwegian plays and transfer them to the Swedish plays? Or will Sweden organise two new artillery battalions? Now, of course, the Minister of Defence is referring to the ongoing preparatory work. I must therefore confine myself to asking the following questions. Will the government in the budget provide an unambiguous answer to the questions I have now asked? Should Sweden have the pieces, should we put them in a grind bag or should we bandage them in two more artillery battalions? The point, Madam President, is that Sweden now has only two artillery battalions. Sometimes we talk about imbalances in Swedish military defence. There are probably those who think that the fact that we have 100 fighter planes, but only 24 artillery pieces is an example of just such an imbalance. Here, the government and the Minister for Defence now have every opportunity to do the right thing and redo it on this point.
i-e82d18e545024e38-273	Mr President, I would like to I have actually given the answer that I can and intend to give today. The content of the budget will be made clear on the date on which it is presented. It is a question of all policy areas, not just defence. What I can say is that there is intense work to be done on this issue. It's not news, I've said it before. The question is not quite simple. It could be a lot of money. It is also a question of different balances and balances and how to look at it in both the short and the long term. It is a solid and comprehensive piece of work. I am, of course, prepared to come to the committee and give proper information as soon as it is finished. We can settle this right now, Mr Widman, that I come to the committee and give it to you. After that, we have the opportunity to discuss the content more concretely. But I'm not going to ease the forgiveness prematurely, until things are finished. When you take up the position of Minister of Defence, you have a legacy to deal with. Norway's dismissal of these pieces was part of the legacy I had to deal with. Of course, this is a difficult problem. But this and many other issues need to be addressed. You must not turn a blind eye to that reality. Then we will have to come back to the more specific details. I am not going to go into discussing the points on exports, increased commitment, the retention of plays and so on, but we will have to come back to the day I have this done and come to committee.
i-e82d18e545024e38-278	Mr President, I would like to Now the Secretary of Defense refers to these Archer pieces, which were decided at some point in 2004, as an inheritance from the Alliance government. But the alliance government that took office in 2006 carried these haubits in the luggage of the former government. The Minister of Defence is clearly unable to state whether or not he is being put to the vote on this issue in the budget. Then perhaps I should have asked the question: When does the government think that you can state a date when you can come to know when this will be revealed, when the forgiveness will be deducted? We have been working on this issue for almost a decade and a half. It is, in my view, important, Mr President, to act as quickly as possible. There must be no doubt whatsoever that we on the Liberal side believe that these 24 plays should be added to the Swedish defence. We have far too little support for the army forces that exist today. We have a great need for sea target shooting artillery, for example on Gotland. Of course, we could also use these pieces as a more regular moving coastal artillery. These are essential gaps that exist in Swedish defence today and that could be covered by the investments that taxpayers obviously still have to make in the development project of the haubits Archer. It is my hope, Mr President, that the government will ultimately choose to make use of this within the framework of military defence and that we will thus receive better support for the Swedish army forces.
i-e82d18e545024e38-281	Mr President, I would like to When I mentioned that we have an inheritance from the previous government, I referred to the termination from Norway, which took place during Karin Enström's defence ministry. It is not something I burden her with, but it was events and events in Norway that led to it. But we had to take over that issue, and we have worked very extensively and intensively on it. I could have tremendous briefings about one after the other part of the work and the drama surrounding Archer, but I am abstaining from it. It is better to talk about this when I can give all the answers in a straight and clear way and we can have a completely relevant discussion without speculation and reflection on what this or that means. I choose to put the cards on the table when the time comes. Then I think it will be best for both Widman and possibly Oscarsson, who also sits here, as well as for others who possibly have an interest in the question. I promise to come back to the committee. We can decide when the time is right.
i-e82d18e545024e38-283	Mr President, I would like to Christina Höj Larsen has asked me if the final report Future is being sought reflects my view and the government's view of how vulnerable EU citizens should be treated, and if not, how and when the government intends to clarify this to Sweden's municipalities and county councils. Initially, I would like to say that this is a complex and for us in Sweden partly new situation that brings both social challenges and certain problems. The government is working widely on this issue. These are actions in the short and long term, as well as actions at local, national and international level. Not least, the EU is a key player and arena for this issue. We cooperate within the EU, we have established cooperation agreements with Romania and Bulgaria for improved conditions in the home countries and we are also making efforts in Sweden. The government is in favour of clearer rules and measures to combat illegal settlements, exploitation of vulnerable persons and violence against vulnerable EU citizens. One of the government's actions was to appoint a special investigator who would act as national coordinator for one year. The mission included supporting the work of all the actors facing vulnerable EU citizens. According to the directive, the coordinator would propose to the government how the interaction between the actors concerned could develop. In his final report, he therefore suggested that cooperation should continue to be incorporated into the existing social structure. State committees are independent authorities. The conclusions and analyses reached by the National Coordinator in his presentation of the Government Mission are therefore the special investigator's own. It is then up to authorities, municipalities and judicial authorities to apply and interpret the legislation. In order to obtain views on the report Future is being sought and on the Government's continued work, the Ministry of Social Affairs organised a dialogue meeting where, among other things, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, the parliamentary parties and idea-based organisations participated. The coordinator's work has helped to gather all stakeholders and increase knowledge of these issues. We are now moving forward through, among other things, the mission given by the Government to the County Administrative Board in Stockholm's county, which is about strengthening collaboration between the relevant actors. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with developing support for how social services can work with matters concerning children in this target group. Both of these tasks aim to support the work of municipalities, county councils and other actors facing vulnerable EU citizens.
i-e82d18e545024e38-290	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister Åsa very much for the answer. I stand here today to try to find out what the government really thinks of the final report on Future is being sought, which the national coordinator left in February this year. The report met with very strong criticism from a number of human rights and non-governmental organisations, who believe that it lacks scientific knowledge, that it interprets the legal situation completely wrong and thus does not take into account the international conventions that Sweden is bound by and that it is largely based on anecdotes and the investigator's own opinions. The perspective of rights shines with its absence, despite the fact that it was included very clearly in the directives to the investigator, but we will come back to that. The only really sharp proposal put forward in the report is that county boards should be given coordination responsibility for issues relating to these European citizens. It is a completely uncontroversial proposal. But what came out in the news channels and got the real impact was something completely different. It was above all the investigator's second conclusions that had an impact in the media: that vulnerable EU citizens' children should not be offered schools, that municipalities should not be assigned special places for residents and that private individuals should not give money in the mug to beggars but instead give to relief organisations. These messages were picked up by Prime Minister Löfven and Prime Minister Regnér, and they have been repeated at press conferences, in news articles and in the debate. Very soon after the coordinator submitted his report, municipalities around the country began to change their policy and approach to vulnerable EU citizens with reference to the report. It is quite clear that the report in the country is seen as national guidelines sanctioned by the government. It's serious. The municipality after municipality has since the report was submitted made decisions that lean against the report. In Umeå and Gävle, the council has decided in principle that children of poor EU citizens should not be offered school. In Karlstad, Helsingborg, Kalmar and Malmö temporary stands and shelters have been closed. In all cases politicians refer behind these decisions to the fact that they share the government's view on the matter and that the report gives these municipalities the right to act. The Government of Regnér must be aware that this is exactly how the final report is interpreted and used in the municipalities. The question is therefore: Does the Government think it is right? Is it the government's view that children of vulnerable EU citizens should be denied the right to school even if they stay here for a long time? Is it the government's view that dignified alternatives to temporary settlements should not be created? How much of Valfridsson's report does the government's policy also reflect?
i-e82d18e545024e38-297	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Raise Larsen, for your question and your commitment in this area! It's really important. Now it is the case in Sweden that the government does not control what the media report, and we do not intend to change that. In addition, we have municipal self-government in Sweden, and much of what the coordinator had to deal with in his report was just how municipalities can look at this issue, how they do and also the relationship between EU responsibility, state responsibility and municipalities' responsibilities. It was the first time such an investigation had been carried out. The previous government had done nothing. I said in my reply that this was a relatively new phenomenon, but it was not so new. In fact, I must criticise the fact that the previous government did nothing about this issue. Therefore, all knowledge acquisition around this was valuable. Martin Valfridsson, the coordinator, was tasked with travelling around municipalities and talking to other actors, authorities and organisations to hear how they view this issue. That is also what he reported. He also had some conclusions of his own. In particular, several of these conclusions called for compliance with existing legislation. The report has been discussed for quite some time, including at an extensive meeting for a long time in which all stakeholders were able to speak. We have moved on to include the issue – if we are still talking about the report – in common structures, for example at the Stockholm County Administrative Board. I think that is quite normal – ensuring that such an issue comes into structures that already exist and are dealt with there. But the problem remains in reality, and maybe that's what we should talk about. Then, in fact, neither I nor the Prime Minister waited for Martin Valfridsson to think anything before we talked about this issue. It is a question we have in our society. As far as I know, no one has said that you can't put money in a jar, but many people want to claim it. I don't really understand why, but you want to say that. I never said that. I've said on a number of occasions that if you don't know how to handle the situation – many people don't know how to behave; they feel a lot about the person who is asking for money but don't know how to do it – and if you feel that you don't want to give in the jar, then I think it makes sense to pay funds to organisations instead. If you want to give in the can, do it! I've never said anything else. What I find strange is that this issue arouses such enormous emotions. Sweden has a long tradition of combating poverty through aid and in other ways. We are very tough about having structures for it, knowing that the funds are distributed in a good way and that you have knowledge, experience and so on behind. We don't usually give out funds either way. That's what you have to do in this case. We don't have any legislation on this. However, I think it makes sense to support organisations that are already in place and have knowledge of this, and I have expressed this, quite apart from this report. If you want to do it another way, it's fine.
i-e82d18e545024e38-305	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Minister Regnér! I am not here to question either local self-government or freedom of the press. What I question is this: if I were a government representative and saw that a report was taken into account for what I think on various issues, I would probably react. I would react particularly strongly if I saw that the municipalities perceived this as national guidelines and referred to this report as if it were the opinion of the government. What I'm really here to investigate is whether it's conscious or unconscious as it is like this. It could of course be a strategy to signal a certain policy but not have to implement it in legislation. I attended the dialogue meeting at the Ministry of Social Affairs myself. Although I thought it was very welcome that we were invited, I was quite amazed afterwards. In fact, the most remarkable thing was the disagreement – a clear one – between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs about children's right to school, which was expressed at the sitting table. Clearly, the Ministry of Education and Social Affairs did not have the same view of the right of these children to school. This should be another reason for the government to clarify how it views the report's conclusions in order to speak with a single voice. As I understood the task of the national coordinator, it was about highlighting the rights side, the legislation in force, and getting a consensus on the issues. When it has not succeeded even between the departments of the government, when one is still sitting and discussing it at the dialogue meeting, something is obviously wrong. The government must tell us how it views these issues more closely. Another point that came up at the dialogue meeting was the widespread criticism of the lack of a rights perspective in the final report. It's hard not to agree with it. The report is very anecdotal, and on the rights side the analyses are very thin. The directives say, for example, that examples should be disseminated of how municipalities and other principals can, on a voluntary basis, offer education to these children. This is something that the coordinator has obviously interpreted the opposite. For a government that has the ambition to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child a law, it should be particularly important to clarify how one views children's rights to school. It also states that efforts should be made to ensure that women's and men's experiences are taken into account and that they are involved in the design of the temporary measures. We also have to question that. Like the rest of Europe, Sweden has a long and shameful history of anti-Ziganism. It has been expressed in terrible things throughout history, as both the White Paper and the Commission against anti-Ziganism have shown. We must be able to see anti-Ziganism not only historically but also in the present. It is therefore particularly important to involve representatives of the Roma groups in this work. There is another major flaw here. My question to the Government is again: how do you want to ensure that municipalities and county councils get real guidelines that have both the rights perspective and the participation perspective in the very important work with vulnerable EU citizens?
i-e82d18e545024e38-315	Mr President, I would like to Investigative work usually does not aim to create consensus in society, and that was not the case in this case either. It was about analysing the problem and the possibilities, listening to what the municipalities had for experience at all – it had not done – and doing other mapping that we did not have. It is important that there is now a regular structure that has taken over this task, and where the municipalities can turn. But they still have municipal self-government. They are allowed to make a lot of decisions themselves in this regard. The government's main track on the subject is that we have free movement within the EU, but there is a regulatory framework around it. If you do not have a livelihood or are still in another EU country for studying, you do not have the right to reside in the country. Freedom of movement also includes a regulatory framework. We have signed agreements with Romania and Bulgaria on cooperation in a number of areas that you list. These are citizens of these countries. These are countries with growth, peace, democracy and democratically elected governments. These are not disintegrating states, which unfortunately we also see not so far from the European Union. It is reasonable to place the main responsibility in these countries and cooperate with them to enable them to do further things, and so do we. These agreements highlight equality and women's rights. We rarely talk about it, but a majority of those who ask for money in Sweden are women. After 30 years as a gender equality activist, I still find it incredibly difficult to understand why this group should accept that it is enough to sit and ask for money on the street. The agreements therefore focus on women, gender equality, children, social services and social rights – a variety of issues where we always cooperate with other countries when working with poverty reduction. That's why we're doing the same thing. We have working groups and frequent contacts. During the summer we have also had visits by experts to work on these agreements. We are conducting a dialogue at European level on these issues. Of those who are in Sweden, a majority, but not all, are Roma, and we have talked to the European Commission about how to further tighten up the quality requirements and work on Roma inclusion, including in connection with the Structural Funds. I think that is an extremely important piece of work. Then we have also taken a number of measures in Sweden. Among other things, the so-called FEAD Fund has been dedicated to this. With regard to other issues raised by the national coordinator Martin Valfridsson, we have also moved on with issues relating to the trafficking of human beings and with the issue of eviction. With regard to children's right to schooling, the national coordinator expressed that it was one of the most difficult issues he encountered, and it is a very complicated issue. As it is today, municipalities have the right to give children schooling, but my view is that we must work to ensure that these EU countries have the opportunity to offer children good schooling there. I have also visited schools and talked to school leaders. It is not an advantage for them that the parents are not present and that children are taken into and out of these schools. My firm conviction is that we have to work to combat poverty in this case as we do in everyone else.
i-e82d18e545024e38-323	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again to the Government for your answer! The extended hand that we face on the street is an expression of acute poverty and long-term discrimination in Europe. There is no doubt that such poverty and discrimination must be combated with long-term efforts. It basically requires a completely different economic policy and a completely different way of working to combat poverty in Europe. I appreciate the long-term solutions that the government is looking for, but in the meantime there are people here and living in a situation that is extremely difficult. In Sweden we have security systems for people who are in a very difficult situation. We're not just saying, "In the long run, you're gonna get a job." We need a solution here and now in everyday life. This also applies to Roma and very poor European citizens. After this debate, do we really know how the government sees the conclusions drawn? The answer is both yes and no. I feel that the government, by allowing this substandard report, with very clear signal policy, to make its own slow effect in the municipalities really avoids making the open positions required by the situation. We have a bourgeois side and SD, all the time calling for a ban on poor and restricted rights, and so we have another side with the Left Party, which says that we must be able to do both the long-term and at the same time ensure that the municipalities have the ability and means to protect the rights of the most vulnerable. This is precisely where the government is failing at the moment.
i-e82d18e545024e38-327	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Höj Larsen, for a committed debate! This is not always the case, but this issue is very important and is about people who live in extremely difficult situations. My main track and my conviction with the government is that we need to work on combating poverty in ways that we know about, that are effective and that change structures in the long and even shorter term. We need to think about equality, and I would have liked to have heard in this debate why you think that these particular women should put up with this situation. I asked that question, and it somehow stays there. Why should these women be content with this? I've been thinking a lot about it, and I can't find any other answer than that we have to work as we do with poverty reduction. This is our trail. We're working on it, and I'm sure we'll see you in another debate.
i-e82d18e545024e38-330	Mr President, I would like to Bengt Eliasson has asked Prime Minister Stefan Löfven what initiatives the Prime Minister is prepared to take now to reverse the negative trend described in the interpellation regarding assistance compensation. The work in the Government Office is so organised that I am the one who answers that question. The Government has decided that a special investigator will review parts of the Act (1993:387) on support and service for certain disabled people (LSS) and assistance compensation in the Social Security Code. The purpose of the mission is to achieve more effective efforts in LSS and to ensure that legislation promotes equality in living conditions and full participation in society and the sustainable economic development of personal assistance. As I mentioned earlier, it is true that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has received a new goal for assistance compensation in the regulations for 2016. What is rarely mentioned when Försäkringskassan's objectives are discussed is that the goal has more equally urgent orientations. It includes the objective of high quality and equal legal application in the country, good control to counter over-exploitation and an effort to break down the number of hours. The attempt to break the trend in the number of assistance hours granted is due to the fact that the number of hours has increased by an average of two to three hours a week each year since 1994. In December 2015, an average of 127 hours per person per week were granted. At the same time, it is not obvious that the needs of those who need personal assistance have become much greater. As I pointed out in previous debates, since the beginning of the reform, assistance payments and cost developments have been the subject of investigations and reviews, without finding more stable solutions to the problems highlighted. This also applies during the time the Liberals were in the government. I can therefore note that, despite numerous investigations, including a parliamentary one, assistance payments have not reached the objective of a long-term sustainable financial compensation system. As far as the conditions for companies are concerned, I can see that only in the last three years have municipalities' share of the assistance market decreased from 29% to 25%, indicating that it remains an attractive sector for companies to operate in. I can also mention that there are more than a thousand companies of different sizes that have permission from the Inspection for Health and Care to conduct the business of personal assistance. I therefore find it difficult to see that the current framework for assistance payments constitutes an obstacle to the establishment of small businesses. The LSS investigation directives concern not only a review of the assistance compensation but also a review of the other nine measures contained in the LSS. There are about 16 000 people who have assistance compensation. In 2015, approximately 70 000 people granted their contributions under LSS. It is important that these actions are properly designed for those who are not eligible for assistance compensation and that some of these actions can also provide adequate alternatives to personal assistance. As I mentioned earlier, I am aware of the concerns of individual users, organisations and organisers when there are changes in assistance payments. However, the Government is responsible for ensuring both legal certainty and the quality of operations under LSS and sustainable cost development. Nor is it new that the assistance compensation is investigated or that there are other changes in the compensation that affect many parties. For example, the previous government received investigations concerning assistance on three occasions. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that it is important for me and for the government to safeguard this reform. The reform has significantly improved living conditions and enabled the self-determination of many girls, boys, women and men with extensive disabilities. It goes without saying to me that welfare costs. At the same time, everyone in our country should feel confident that the money in our tax-funded welfare is being spent properly.
i-e82d18e545024e38-339	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. First of all, I would just like to give a brief background to the fact that I chose to interpel the Prime Minister and not the Prime Minister directly. I understand, of course, the division of government's work, but I deliberately chose to interpel the Prime Minister because my questions are actually based on the party leader debate on 15 June. My party leader Jan Björklund then asked the Prime Minister in a change of line: Why do you pull down on the LSS? Why are you saving the most vulnerable people in society? The answer given to Jan Björklund by your party's leader, as well as the Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, can be interpreted in every good sense as rather lukewarm and rather accusing of those who are eligible for assistance and those who perform the assistance. So the question remains, I think. The Government now says in its reply that it is not obvious that the needs of those who need personal assistance have become so much greater that it justifies the cost increase that has taken place. But how can you be so sure before the analysis is done? There are several pretty good assumptions that explain the big increase. First of all, the need for support for children was strongly underestimated back in 1994. Since the turn of the millennium, the person responsible for 65 is allowed to retain personal assistance – it does not end or pass into care for the elderly. People with extensive disabilities live longer and therefore need assistance hours for longer periods of time. Active supervision efforts have increased quite radically, not least because of medical advances. In part, it can also be assumed that it is a matter of pure mathematics: since the threshold for obtaining assistance compensation has been raised, there will be more hours per person – it is a question of people with greater needs. Like Åsa Regnér, I welcome a deeper analysis of why costs are increasing. I welcome a large part of the commission of the investigation. We are not critical of the government examining the costs and content, on the contrary. We've been asking for it for a long time. But the focus is wrong. The directives for the investigation mention the word, cost, 41 times. There is no mention of freedom and freedom of choice, and there is only one brief argument as to what can be limited. We are critical of the fact that it is a one-sided focus on the economy and costs, and that you actually decide on cuts and regulatory constraints without political debate and, above all, before the analysis is made. I would like to continue to bear my party leader's questions: Why are you cutting down on the LSS? Why do you save on society's most vulnerable?
i-e82d18e545024e38-347	Mr President, I would like to This is a comprehensive and very complex issue. It has been debated on many occasions, and so it needs to be. It has also been the subject of searches and investigations during the reign of your party. Even now, we have set up an investigation. This reform is good. We want it to remain. We want it to evolve. You say that we are talking about costs, Bengt Eliasson, but you do not mention that we also talk about rights, independence, participation, quality, equality and children's perspectives in the directives. It's not just words, it's very important conditions for the investigation. You will also forget in your post to mention that there are a number of reports, investigations and screenings, at least five from different actors, which point out that in many cases the large proportion of private performers – not all but many – have room to use funds from the reform for advertising, for hiring more lawyers or for other administrative costs that would not be covered by these funds. I and the government are anxious that the money be used for those for whom it was intended. It's taxpayers' money. I think taxpayers should demand that a government know what the money is for. Moreover, if you have indications that they are not always used as intended, you have to do something about it. That is our driving force.
i-e82d18e545024e38-351	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to thank the Government for its answer. I agree that this is an important debate, and we will certainly continue it on many levels and for a long time. It is clear from the investigation directives and from other government policy that assistance costs should be cut. The investigation shall make suggestions on how to limit the intervention in terms of number of users and/or number of hours. Can it be clearer than that? I cannot interpret it as other than that the meaning is that assistance should be reduced as well as that the whole area of disability should be given less resources. I don't know if the beneficiaries get too many hours or too few. I don't think Åsa Regnér knows that either. If it were the case that the beneficiaries of assistance receive too many hours, it must ultimately mean that they have it somehow too well, that they can live better than people without disabilities, or that the person-granted hours and money would actually go to something else. This is a need assessed by Försäkringskassan, with a certain number of SEK being paid out. I don't understand the other math. The government's policy of signaling will lower many private and cooperative assistance providers and reduce the freedom of choice of assistance beneficiaries. The Social Insurance Agency has already gone out and warned the municipalities about this. Our criticism now is not about the details of design, flat-rate compensation schemes or any other supporting elements. Such details can be debated for a long time. Instead, our criticism is about the basic approach to the LSS reform itself, that it is a problem that should be limited, restricted and reduced. Let me mention a few elements of signal policy in particular. The flat-rate allowance is low – it is today SEK 288 per hour while the home service costs 369. The Social Insurance Agency has switched to a post-payment. Försäkringskassan has announced that it should move to monthly reporting. The Government has proposed that the level of compensation should be amended several times a year. As I said, the Social Insurance Agency has warned the municipalities that they may need to take over assistance at short notice. Today, Kommunal is blowing into conflict about the assistance providers. It has to be said, however, that the government's policy has somehow had an effect when the union goes out and says: Now the limit is reached. Does the Government think this is reasonable? Are our country's most vulnerable people too well? If so, I wonder: How? What Åsa Regnér says, that the government supports the principles of personal assistance, is very positive. But everything you do in practice is in fact a starting point for the actual effort. It is this development that makes me sleepless at night. That is the development that I think we need to stop together.
i-e82d18e545024e38-359	Mr President, I would like to Bengt Eliasson addresses the company's terms and conditions. So there are about 1 000 companies on this market, 16 000 people. It is a measure that it is probably interesting to be in this area. As I said before, we know that profit is not only possible. We know that some of the profits are very big. Some companies are listed. We also know that there is a great deal – it certainly does not apply to everyone, because there are many serious actors among the private and, of course, the public – who use the money in a way that was not intended. I'd like to hear about your view of it. One of your former party leaders has written an attentive report in this area. It was ordered and paid by the health service providers – it is they who actually receive criticism in several of these reports. I'd love to hear how you see it. Isn't that a concern for you? I agree that freedom of choice is important here. And, as I said, many of the stakes are highly appreciated. But how much do you think taxpayers should pay for rogue players in this market? How much will that freedom of choice cost? We know from at least five serious reports that the money is being mishandled. Sometimes it's in some kind of gray area. How much do you think taxpayers should manage there? Above all, I wonder: How much do you think should go to activities that do not benefit the beneficiaries?
i-e82d18e545024e38-362	Mr President, I would like to 1,000 companies and an interesting market, says the Government. Yes, one can also say that there are 1 000 companies because freedom of choice is so important, and many users choose many different types of organisers. The need is there, and then the market is formed. You can turn it that way if you want. We fully agree that crime in all sectors should be combated. Crime and irregularities are to be removed. We are in complete agreement on that. But there are also limits when you go into personal freedom of choice, and we obviously do not agree on that. The government was aware of what the previous government did or did not do. It is true that the former government, the bourgeois government, did some good things but not enough. I totally agree with that. The parliamentary inquiry that came in 2008 had many good proposals. I deeply regret that not all were implemented. But that's how it is in a coalition government. I think Åsa Regnér, if any minister, is well aware that compromises have a price. You're supposed to get along. It is positive that Åsa Regnér is behind the principles of personal assistance. But I would appeal to the government to shift the focus in practical politics and instead start with the Prime Minister's words: That's not where we're going to fold. ..................................................... It's a quote from Stefan Löfven. I use those words, too.
i-e82d18e545024e38-367	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the debate! I think it's going on. It is an important issue and important values that we are talking about here. I agree with the Prime Minister's statement. That is also why we have the concepts that I mentioned earlier in the investigation. They are also its starting points. You said earlier that the disability area should receive less funding at all. We've never said that. It is about getting control over the very problems I mentioned. Pure crime is one thing. We must, of course, curb it. There are a number of judgments where you see horrifying interiors. But there are criminal acts where there are convictions. What I am talking about is partly ambiguities in the legislation. And the government has a responsibility to propose legislation to the Riksdag. That's why this investigation is being conducted. There are a lot of questions of a different nature but which are also important. It's about the gender dimension. Why do men get more assistance than women? It's about the role of families. When I talk to organisations – I often do – some people think it's great that families have the role they have in the legislation. Others don't think so. Is it good with two principals or not? These are very big issues that many have discussed. But we must continue to do so and also make certain decisions. I am defending this reform, and that is why I am taking it.
i-e82d18e545024e38-372	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked the Minister for Education why the teacher teachers of some independent performers are not included in the teacher wage initiatives. Maria Stockhaus has also asked whether individual principals who only have preschool can apply for money to raise the salaries of their preschool teachers. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The government takes a very serious view of the situation that we have in Swedish schools, with falling knowledge results and with a large shortage of teachers and supervisors. The development of primary and secondary schools has been particularly serious. The results have declined in international studies such as PISA and Timss. Fewer and fewer have qualified for one of the national programmes of upper secondary school, and there is still a large proportion of pupils who do not complete upper secondary school education. In addition, there are difficulties in recruiting a sufficient number of applicants for certain courses and subjects in teacher training. All of this clearly underlines that the needs for action are particularly high in primary and secondary schools. The aim of the investment in increased teacher salaries, the Teacher Salary Lift, is therefore to reverse the results by strengthening the attractiveness of the teaching profession. The focus of the initiative is therefore on increased salary for qualified teachers in preschool class, primary school, upper secondary school and corresponding school forms. Therefore, the distribution of the state grant is also mainly calculated on the basis of how many pupils a principal has in these priority forms of school. The comprehensive school and upper secondary school, and the corresponding school forms, are part of a coherent school system for children and young people together with preschool, recreation centre and pre-school class, and on this basis, in addition to teachers in the priority school forms, some other categories of staff may also benefit from the initiative. To pre-school class, comprehensive school, upper secondary school and similar forms of school, which are also principals of preschool or free-time residence, state grants may be granted for increased salaries also in preschool and free-time residence. The reason why principals who only have preschools cannot take part in the state grant is because they do not have fund-based pupils in the priority school forms. It is also important to recall that the state does not take over the role of employer. It is still municipalities and individual principals who are employers and who have the opportunity to wage their staff based on recruitment needs, merit and skill. The government has been working since day one when it comes to meeting the teacher shortage in general. The teacher's salary lift is a big step, but more efforts are being made in both the short and long term. For example, the government invests in supplementary educational education for those who already have an academic degree and by taking advantage of the competence of the teachers who now come to Sweden from other countries. Long-term, the government is also working to improve the quality of teacher education and to create better conditions for teachers to be able to focus on teaching. The goal is an equal school with knowledge in focus, which gives all children and young people a good start in life regardless of background. It is a school based on scientific foundations where no one should be left behind and no one held back. It will provide greater equality, greater freedom for our children, and greater prosperity and welfare. By investing in the school, we are investing in the future.
i-e82d18e545024e38-379	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is a comprehensive response that contains much – almost all the reforms in the field of school that this government has on the agenda. We are touchingly agreed that the school is important. Without a functioning schooling and passing grades, the opportunities to create a good life and support yourself are much more limited. If the school is to succeed, good teachers are needed. There's a big challenge. In Sweden, we lack qualified teachers, and the lack of teachers, which is already a fact, makes the school increasingly difficult to fulfil its mission. The Alliance made many efforts during its eight years in power to strengthen teachers. I wasn't going to list them all, but one important reform was the career service reform, which gave many teachers a higher salary. Not everything is in pay, but there is no political disagreement that the salary level of the teaching profession needs to be increased and that wages need to be differentiated. That is why we Moderates have supported the government's level of the teacher wage initiative. I assume that is also why the government supported the career service reform. It is not straightforward when the state engages in the issue of wages. This was the experience of the Alliance, and there have also been discussions about the distribution of the 3 billion that the government is investing in teacher salaries. Pre-school education is today the first step in lifelong learning. I think we agree that preschool is important in laying the foundations for good school performance. What the government is now signaling with the conditions for the special investment in teacher salaries is that the supervisors at 2,673 independent preschools in Sweden are not important and do not do a good enough job to deserve a teacher's salary lift. Only those preschool teachers who work with a principal who also has primary school or upper secondary school are skilled enough. It makes me think of a preschool in my home municipality Sollentuna, Montessori preschool Pärluglan, a small parent cooperative that has been running for 20 years and that year after year gets among the highest grades a preschool can get from the parents. When we do inspections by the municipality, preschool also shows exceptionally good quality. What the government is now signaling is that their work is not as worthwhile as the work done in the municipal preschool a few blocks away. Worse still, they will find it difficult to keep their preschool teachers, since the municipal preschool can use the teacher's wage money to raise the pre-schooler's wages and bid over Montessori pre-school Pärluglan, so that they lose their preschool teachers. My question to the Government is: Why does the government not value the work done by skilled preschool teachers of less independent principals as much as the work of preschool teachers of principals who also happen to have school?
i-e82d18e545024e38-389	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the wider questions. I would really like to emphasise that the government values all teachers. We think that all teachers are important and do an important job, regardless of the school form or principal. This is an extraordinary effort that we are making as a result of, above all, the falling results in primary and secondary schools. That is why they are priorities in the initiative. It is always tempting – not least when you are in opposition – to have a policy where you give everything to everyone. But this cannot be done in a government, and we have made a clear priority. It is that it is mainly comprehensive school and upper secondary school that should be the focus. It includes not only municipal principals but also independent principals. However, since the calculation is based on the number of pupils in primary or secondary school – it is about 90 per cent of the state grant – as you mention, independent preschools that do not have primary or secondary school cannot be included in this reform. I would also like to emphasise that we have not taken over responsibility for wage formation from the employer, but it is still the employer's responsibility to ensure that wages are competitive. This is an extraordinary effort in an extraordinary situation, precisely because the school lays the foundation for the entire future of the individual but also for Sweden as a society. It is about our ability to maintain competitiveness but also a welfare of the highest quality. That's why we need to make this effort. I am pleased that the Moderates are behind it and assume that they are behind the actual design of it as well.
i-e82d18e545024e38-395	Mr President, I would like to The signal system when setting rules for state subsidies is quite essential. With the rules that the government has set up to get part of a teacher's salary initiative, the conditions for 90 per cent of independent preschools in Sweden have been reduced, compared to those belonging to an independent principal with primary and secondary schools or a municipal principal. They cannot compete with higher wages in a situation where – if you look at Stockholm and also other parts of the country – the lack of preschool teachers is huge and the competition if the educated preschoolers are tough. It distorts competition and puts the less independent preschools at a disadvantage. The rules also disadvantage the skilled preschool teachers who have chosen to work with the principal in accordance with the government's regulations. Last but not least, it threatens equivalence and affects children whose parents have chosen a preschool that is not municipal or belongs to a less independent principal. The proportion of trained staff is crucial for quality even in preschool. The government's regulatory framework – despite the fact that there has been widespread criticism of this division of rules on who can take part in the teacher's salary initiative – means that some children are at risk of not having access to pre-school activities of the same high quality. The risk is that the larger principals who are able to apply for state grants can attract preschool teachers from the smaller ones, who are then unable to maintain the same high quality as before. What answer does the Government have to the preschool teachers and the parents who are thus disadvantaged by having happened to choose a wrong school for their children or a wrong employer?
i-e82d18e545024e38-399	Mr President, I would like to A very important principle is that we should get better wage development and safeguard continuity, so this must not be used for what you mention, to attract over preschool teachers or other teachers. It must therefore not be used for recruitment. That is a very important principle. It is precisely about being able to give a wage development for those who stay and take responsibility for the development of the business. Once again, the answer that I give parents is the same answer that I have given to the Member of Parliament here and that we have been giving all along: this is an effort that is being made, above all, for primary and secondary schools to break the negative trend that we inherited from the previous government but also to ensure that teachers get better wage development. The aim of this is, as I said, to improve the performance of primary and secondary schools. We have a coherent school system. Therefore, a small part may also be used for preschool teachers and leisure teachers in, for example, preschools for those principals who have primary and secondary schools. There are more forms of school that are not covered. It is not about us not prioritising them as high, but it is at least as important for us to improve conditions for individuals and for Sweden as a country of knowledge. But as I said, you have to be able to set clear priorities when you have a responsibility in the government. Then it is not possible to conduct an all-to-all policy.
i-e82d18e545024e38-403	Mr President, I would like to It is still extremely important what signals you send out, because it has a big impact on how people view different activities. I understand that the government wants it to be simple rules for applying for the state grant. But I still have very little understanding that you do not want to take on board the criticism that the government has received for disadvantageing preschool teachers who work with less independent principals. In an interview, the Minister for Education has said – and you have also said this in the debate – that the teacher wage initiative is primarily aimed at raising the results in primary and secondary schools. Then I wonder if the government has completely missed that there is so much research to support you that a well-functioning high-quality preschool makes a big difference in students' results as they get older. Then it is important that the small independent heads have the opportunity to retain the staff that can be involved in developing the business. It is very strange that it is important for the other principals that the supervisors and teachers should remain in order to be able to participate in the development of the business. If you see that the wage development is better with another principal, there is a great risk that you will move, even if you do not get the higher salary with the move. The fact that the government does not listen to criticism and in such a flagrant way devalues the work of 90% of our independent preschools is remarkable to me. It would be desirable for the government to decide that preschool teachers should either be involved or not be involved in the initiative, instead of this half-measures, which sends out strange signals and divides a whole profession. Is the government prepared to change the rules of its teacher's wage scheme, or is it maintained that children who attend less independent preschools, such as parent cooperatives, are not entitled to a high-quality preschool?
i-e82d18e545024e38-409	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the biggest reforms we are implementing – it is at 3 billion annually – and it will be followed up. We have given such an assignment to Statskontoret. We will of course see if there is any reason for adjustment, but I think that long-termness is a very important thing for us to really make sure that we get a change in Swedish school and Swedish school development. The aim of this reform of education policy is, as I said, to increase the performance of primary and secondary schools. Of course, we see our entire education system as a coherent education system, and so a small part of this can be used for those principals who also have preschools and recreation centres – but not for those who only have them. It is a priority that we have made and which we stand by. It is, again, the employer who is responsible for wage formation. This state grant should not be used to recruit from others, but should be used to create wage development for those who have been in the profession for a while and thus contribute a great deal to both student results and school development. With regard to the lack we have in all categories of teachers, I would like to say that the government is now working on extending teacher training and, not least, pre-school education. That is where we have taken a fresh look at the budget that will soon be presented. We are expanding further so that we can provide a high-quality preschool for everyone.
i-e82d18e545024e38-413	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Christensson has asked me what I intend to do to enable weather-proof train traffic along Bohusbanan. The Government has high ambitions in terms of ensuring the quality of existing transport infrastructure and developing the transport system as a whole, which is a prerequisite for jobs and sustainable development throughout Sweden. The Government has therefore carried out, among other things, substantial reinforcements of railway maintenance. This amounts to SEK 620 million in 2015 and SEK 1,240 million per year during the period 2016– 2018. In the 2016 budget proposal, the Government has also implemented additional investments in both railway and road maintenance in rural areas with a total of SEK 800 million during the period 2016– 2019. I would like to make it clear that the SEK 500 million reduction implemented in 2016 within the allocation for maintenance of the State's transport infrastructure is temporary and only covers maintenance roads. Thus, there are no reductions in the allocation for railway operation and maintenance. For many years Sweden has invested too little resources in the operation and maintenance of the rail system, which has contributed to the problem of delays and lack of capacity with which the system is currently suffering. The Government therefore considers it important to strengthen maintenance in order to reduce traffic disruptions and other problems that cause unnecessary costs to society and industry, as well as to increase rail competitiveness. The Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for planning and implementing maintenance measures on the state network, and funds for this are provided in the national transport infrastructure plan. The need for action is great. It will take time to implement these, and priority needs to be given. The existing rail system must be adapted to the situation pending maintenance measures. However, safety is always a top priority. In extreme weather, the temporary closure of a runway may be a necessary measure not to endanger safety.
i-e82d18e545024e38-418	Mr President, I would like to It's fun to be back after the summer! I would like to begin by thanking the Government for the answer to my interpellation. The reason I put the interpellation is that the Swedish Transport Administration was forced to shut down the northern part of Bohusbanan when a few weeks ago there was a strong wind on the west coast. Heavy winds are not a new phenomenon on the west coast, but they take place as close as possible. I believe that the Government, which also comes from the front of Sweden's west coast, is also aware of this. For western Sweden, Gothenburg is an extremely important growth place. It is a place that many people need to go to and from to work and create dynamism in a strong labour market region. Working road and rail connections to and from Gothenburg, and also to and from the smaller labour market regions in Västra Götaland, is extremely important for us to be able to create the required growth. In Västra Götaland there have been major investments in the infrastructure. We have seen a new railway between Gothenburg and Trollhättan, which has been an extremely important investment. We have seen the motorway between Gothenburg and Trollhättan, and we have seen the motorway between Gothenburg and Oslo – which was completed only a few years ago. This is extremely important. Bohuslän is located in that bar between Gothenburg and Oslo, which has an enormous growth potential. Many jobs can be created and added there. This requires infrastructure that is sustainable and reliable. As in this case, temporarily shutting off the northern Bohusbanan because of harsh winds, which is common on the west coast, reduces the confidence of travellers. Fewer choose to go collectively. Instead of taking a close look at extra buses or getting completely standing, with major delays, you choose other means of transport. The fine-meshed railway network is extremely important for commuting. It connects the larger strings between the main tracks. One should be able to get all the way to Strömstad from Stockholm in a good and safe way, but it is also about the labour market region. As Strömstadsbo you should be able to enter Uddevalla for work or studies in a safe way, and Uddevalla residents should be able to get to Strömstad for this. If these smaller tracks are not secured by weather, they are at risk of decay, and that is the risk that unfortunately exists today for the fine-mesh road network in northern Bohuslän in the case of the northern Bohusbanan. My first question to the Government is therefore why the Government allows the fine-meshed road network to lapse to the extent that it is at risk if it does not prevent the damage that can happen. My second question to the Government concerns the ambition of the Government. It is clear that we want to move transport from the road to the railways. In this case, by failing or failing to provide the necessary resources to ensure the operational safety of both commuters and freight, there is a risk that the attractiveness of the railways will fall – and at the same time the government will be discussing mileage taxes, which would penalise the alternative and those who cannot move over to a reliable alternative. I would therefore like to hear the Government develop the reasoning on these issues concerning the fine-meshed railway network.
i-e82d18e545024e38-427	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my reply, we seem to be in full agreement that further investment in railway maintenance is needed to ensure the operational capacity, robustness and reliability of the rail system. The railway has an enormous importance and potential to strengthen labour market regions, to strengthen commuting and thereby strengthen growth and development opportunities throughout Sweden. Of course, the smaller courses also have a given role to play in this. But even when the government has contributed 1.34 billion a year to railway maintenance, priority is needed for these resources to do what is most important and urgent first and then deal with what follows. I do not think it is possible to design a traffic system that remains completely unaffected regardless of the weather. Airports sometimes have to be closed because there have been large amounts of snow in a short time. You sometimes have to turn off roads as a result of fallen trees. It happens that the risk of hydroplaning increases due to large amounts of water along the way. Even if we do even more, there will always be a risk that extreme weather conditions will affect transport systems, and we will have to live with that. On the other hand, the risk of extreme weather will increase with climate change, which is beginning to make itself quite clear also in Sweden. The Swedish Transport Agency therefore focuses more on identifying more vulnerable areas. This could include flood risks or tree securing along railway tracks, for example. This work is ongoing, but it will of course take a while before you have secured every kilometre of the railway. There may also be other measures and needs that are even more important to address, such as gear changes and signal failure measures in large parts of the system. I would like to make it clear once again that what was shown in the interpellation that there would have been a reduction in rail maintenance in 2016 is a misconception and wrong. The money allocated to railway maintenance in 2016 remains unengraved. There, the government has increased resources by 1.24 billion in a general allocation to the Finnish Transport Agency and an additional 100 million per year for rail in less populated areas, where one may have to count at least part of Bohusbanan. We fully agree on the needs, and I hope that we also agree that, even with increased resources, priority is needed.
i-e82d18e545024e38-433	Mr President, I would like to I want to start where the Government closed. When the Alliance took over the government power in 2006, the maintenance on Sweden's railways and roads was severely neglected. We saw to it that it gradually increased, and it is necessary to continue that development. Unfortunately, for 2016 there were cuts in infrastructure, which was in another pot within the same budget. That is a problem – we need to invest more in the safety and maintenance of our roads and railways, even if we are discussing only the railways here. It is also important that we consider how we can strengthen what we actually have before we start to think about things differently. In his speech, the Minister highlights the link to tree securing. When Bohusbanan was shut down a few weeks ago, strong winds were blowing, but this was not a new phenomenon for the West Coast. My hope is that the minister from here will take with him the idea of doing some kind of cost analysis. Every time the railway is shut down, it costs at the other end – extra buses are needed and reduce operational safety, which also risks leading to fewer users of the railway. This is an important issue. In this case, we were talking about tree fuses. As the Minister says, there are many other natural phenomena that can affect our infrastructure on both roads and railways. It is, however, a rather simple and obvious measure, especially when it is linked to harsh winds. How far away are trees from the railroad? Do they risk falling over contact lines and over the railroad if it blows hard? In connection with this, the Swedish Transport Administration in Strömstads Tidning points out that the priorities are always reviewed with extra funds. Of course, funds are an important issue here. We are fully aware that we need to set different priorities. But precisely in this example, it is an important labour market region in western Sweden – similar situations exist in other important labour market regions – and this particular commuting is extremely important because the distances are so small that the alternatives by bus or car are good compensation for the railways if they are not of the required quality. The Minister says in his interpellation response that security is important. I share that view, but we also need to consider how we can prevent and thus avoid these interruptions affecting many students and workers who use commuting.
i-e82d18e545024e38-437	Mr President, I would like to Now it is to that happiness so that this suspension was a rather unusual phenomenon. You do not close this course in time and out of time, but these were extreme weather conditions. Enough to blow on the west coast, but there are still different wind forces in that part of the country. In this case, it was estimated that due to weather conditions, trains could not be driven on this route with safety, and then it was chosen to turn it off. It is important to make that kind of assessment and always to put safety first so that you do not risk accidents or get standing by trains on the track because you simply do not get ahead. The assessment made is entirely reasonable. As I mentioned earlier, there are similar examples from other modes of transport. The Öresund bridge is solidly built but sometimes forced to close because the winds are far too strong. There is not much to do about this. I also mentioned earlier that the Swedish Transport Administration has paid particular attention to weather risks as an increased problem. One therefore looks especially at different types of weather securing. Some of it is, of course, tree securing, and it is – as Fredrik Christensson says – about preventing problems. But you cannot do it everywhere at the same time, but there too it is a matter of prioritising resources so that you first do what is most urgent – where the risk is greatest or where a stop has the most serious consequences. This work is ongoing, but it will take quite a long time before the entire rail system in Sweden is restored. One can hardly blame any government in recent years for overinvesting in the railways, even if a former finance minister put it that way. We have a job to do to restore the attractiveness and reliability of the railways. We have taken on this work with greatly increased resources for maintenance, and we will continue that work. Tree fuses are a part, but we have to do what's most important first.
i-e82d18e545024e38-441	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, when it comes to the Öresund Bridge, it is also sometimes closed because of political decisions and not just because of weather. But in this case with Bohusbanan – which is important for the labour market region around Uddevalla and Trollhättan in western Götaland – it is extremely important to invest, which we seem to agree on. I would like once again to call on the Government to take the discussions with it linked to impact assessment or cost analysis. It is not an unusual phenomenon, and it risks leading to closures which in turn lead to costs in the form of replacement buses and reduced traffic due to insufficient operational safety. Another worrying thing that I have encountered in these discussions locally is that not all the funds allocated to infrastructure last year were spent on all the budget lines. This is also an important part of the organisation of the money and how to distribute it and ensure that the funds allocated to the infrastructure are used more widely. This is something to continue to talk about in connection with the discussions taking place today in Sweden on high-speed trains and the like. It is important to link that discussion to how we view our existing rail infrastructure and labour market regions. Again, if you want to move transport from road to rail, it is important that the railways function more effectively. I therefore see the Swedish Transport Administration's closure of Bohusbanan as extremely unhappy precisely because it creates problems for the workers and students who move between Strömstad and Uddevalla or Uddevalla and Strömstad. I hope that the Minister will take these issues with him.
i-e82d18e545024e38-445	Mr President, I would like to It is already at Trafikverket to carry out such analyses to ensure that they use the resources they have received in the most socio-economic and efficient way, i.e. on which routes it is most important that traffic works and which measures are most cost-effective to achieve it. That mission has the Finnish Transport Administration, so I don't have to take it home with me. It is a very clearly stated responsibility of the Finnish Transport Administration to make these priorities. It is equally clear that the Finnish Transport Administration should always put safety first. Of course, it would have been even more unfortunate than closing the track at one time if there had been an accident as a result of a falling tree, when strong winds could have been predicted that could pose a risk. The assessment by the Finnish Transport Administration has probably been correct in this case. The Öresund Bridge has, to my knowledge, never been closed for political reasons. Perhaps this is something that Fredrik Christensson knows about, and in that case I will of course take it back. But I have not understood that this has ever happened. Otherwise, Fredrik Christensson will be happy to correct me in another debate. The government has very high ambitions when it comes to rail. But it is not only the case that the railway we have is in a bad condition, as it is, and that we are therefore spending a great deal more on maintenance, but that there is also a lack of capacity in the rail system. We need more rail in order to get a volume increase so that more people can travel by rail and more goods can travel by rail. Therefore, it is not a matter of either maintenance or investment. We need to do both, but we need to do it in the right order so that we use taxpayers' money as efficiently as we can.
i-e82d18e545024e38-449	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl has asked me what measures I and the government will take to counteract the notice that Vattenfall has now put in Jokkmokk and what I and the government will do to create the conditions for improving the business environment. Helena Lindahl has also asked if I and the government believe that an energy-producing municipality like Jokkmokk should be allowed to take part in the profits made by the state in hydropower activities, and if so, in what way. I understand the concerns that all employees feel and the commitment that the residents of Jokkmokk and the entire Norrbotten show on this issue. That is why I met local representatives on 22 August to hear all the different aspects of the issue, which was very valuable. I want to make it clear that the authorities and state-owned companies should act exemplaryly in their activities and in a way that gives them public confidence. This applies, of course, even in this situation. For Vattenfall, the ongoing energy market transition is a real challenge for future profitability, mainly due to low electricity prices and falling revenues. In addition, the company is deducted with the effects of previous investments. Therefore, Vattenfall is constantly working to be effective and to review and reduce its costs. The Government conducts an active business policy with a focus on efforts that further improve the company's conditions and increase Sweden's attractiveness for investments with the goal that we will become world leader in innovative and sustainable industrial production of goods and services. The government has developed a strategy for Smart Industry, an export strategy and is working to create a more efficient capital supply for growing companies. The strategies are developed in dialogue with industry and the social partners. We are also working to ensure that Sweden remains at the forefront when it comes to exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation to be an attractive country to invest in. The government believes that the best knowledge of what needs to be done to develop Norrbotten, and Jokkmokk, is available in its own region. Therefore, the main responsibility for regional growth resources lies with the counties. In 2015, more than SEK 520 million were granted in regional business support, most of which were received by counties with very sparsely populated areas. Within the Government's policy for regional growth, including regional business support, there are major investments in the future that will benefit Jokkmokk. In 2016, the County Administrative Board in Norrbotten County will receive more than SEK 137 million for regional growth efforts. The funds improve the county's ability to promote restructuring and business renewal. The EU Structural Funds and the Rural Development Programme are also important instruments for local and regional growth in the country. For the 2014–2020 programming period, the Regional Fund Programme Upper Norrland ( Norrbotten and Västerbotten County) comprises approximately SEK 3.6 billion. The investments under the rural development programme will comprise SEK 36 billion in Sweden until 2020. These are significant development funds that contribute to growth and competitiveness in the counties. Revenue from the Swedish hydropower goes to the Swedish State through taxes and in the form of dividends. This revenue is part of the State's total revenue and may not be earmarked for individual areas of expenditure in the State budget.
i-e82d18e545024e38-454	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to express my warm thanks to Mikael Damberg for his reply. In my hand, I have a thick lunta with 6,500 signatures that I will hand over to the Minister for Economic Affairs after the debate. The signatures have been collected in Norrbotten as a result of Vattenfall considering possibly moving 40 jobs from Jokkmokk and in the worst case to another country, perhaps even a low-wage country. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that Minister Damberg, in his response to me and to those who are now affected in Jokkmokk, is leaning against state companies being exemplary rather than doing something himself. The Minister makes it sound like Vattenfall would be oriented to some kind of moral map instead of owner directives or what the business climate looks like in Sweden. It's a way of shoveling the consequences on the company. Certainly, I agree that state companies should take responsibility for regions that exploit natural resources. But then the state must also provide the conditions for taking that responsibility, for example, providing good conditions for running businesses, and I do not think that the government and Damberg do. In his reply, Mikael Damberg consistently points out that an active nutrition policy is being pursued and exemplifies with attractive strategies such as Smart Industry, Export Strategy and more. But the Minister does not explain how government policy will create more jobs in Jokkmokk, for example. Does active enterprise policy mean constantly increasing the expenditure of companies, not least in northern Sweden? I mean, for example, mileage taxes at a distance that are now being investigated, aviation taxes announced or, as has been done, employers' contributions increased. This causes a lot of problems for the small town where it is already difficult to have a business. This also leads to smaller municipalities becoming even more dependent on public jobs, government jobs and government agencies. Then you are also extremely vulnerable when these steps are down. Then I cannot help but mention that the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government is now in the process of phasing out Inlandsinnovation, the state venture capital company with SEK 2 000 million in the portfolio, which had or still has, at least until the end of the year, the focus on northern Sweden, parts of Värmland and Dalarna. These coins will smudge across the rest of the country, and of course the focus will be on the three major cities. It is actually money that could have done good in Norrbotten, for example. This is just another example of the big city fixation that I actually think the government has, and I regret that. Then it is easy to say that it is Norrbotten's own responsibility to be responsible for its development with the bag of money that, like other regions in the country, has been allocated from the state in terms of growth and development. However, my question to the Minister was not about the responsibility of the region, but about what measures the Minister and the Government intend to take to prevent the 40 jobs at Vattenfall Accounting in Jokkmokk from disappearing from there.
i-e82d18e545024e38-462	Mr President, I would like to It is not so common to get up in the debate and discuss how things are in another region. After all, we are elected from different parts of the country. I am elected from the City of Stockholm, or the City of Stockholm as it is called in the Riksdag. I'm very proud of that. I want that region to work very well. But I and we Stockholmers also think it is important that the whole of Sweden has the same conditions. I took a small calculation example. I was at home watching some statistics. That would correspond to over 7,000 jobs in Stockholm City alone. There is an enormous amount of jobs. The Government, the County Administrative Board and other actors but also Vattenfall must understand that. It is clear that state-owned companies should operate according to their articles of association and company directives. That's it. It is very difficult for a government to first take a decision on this, which the Riksdag sometimes supports, and then go in and say: No, now you must not do it that way. It is, of course, complicated. It is precisely because these are complex issues that one has to sit down and be extra innovative and extra knowledgeable in dealing with those issues. It is important to show that there may be alternative solutions to the problems. It is clear, however, that it is totally unreasonable for 40 jobs to be lost in Jokkmokk. We as Social Democrats cannot support this. I fully share that view. Then I have to comment on the return from Vattenfall and so on. Vattenfall doesn't give much in return right now. In addition, I will tell Helena Lindahl that she worked hard to reduce the property tax for Vattenfall. On the contrary, she has reduced that cost. As always when you debate with Helena Lindahl, it is not about good business climate but about taxes, and so it is a little more taxes, a little more taxes, and a little more taxes on it. I've heard that so many times that it almost becomes completely uninteresting. Finally, she also mentions Inland innovation. The whole Parliament agreed on this, in principle, except for the Center Party. I'm sorry about that. It's a good order you've got with the bill called State and capital. For me as a stockholmer and as a Swede in this country, it is important that the 40 jobs in Jokkmokk remain.
i-e82d18e545024e38-469	Mr President, I would like to I may have to make Börje Vestlund a little sad when I myself will continue to talk a little bit about company conditions. I'm not from Norrland either. But I understand the frustration that is up there, and I am extremely proud of my colleague Helena Lindahl who is pushing forward on this issue. It's extremely important. Every job is important both for the individual and for society and especially in smaller rural areas. The government has pursued a policy that it calls active nutrition policy. At the same time, however, it raises taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden by many billions. It's an increase in employer's fees. Fortunately, it was no longer a proposal to introduce the sickness tax, and I would like to thank the Government for backing that proposal. But there are still other disturbances in rural areas linked to the survey on mileage taxes and government policies linked to increased fuel taxes that affect them. It affects people who live and work but also those who run businesses in the rural areas of Norrland but also on the west coast, where I come from. The conditions for entrepreneurs are extremely important for us to have more people employed and for more people to get a job done so that we create more resources for the well-being and thus also make the necessary investments. The government has much to thank the current boom for in the situation we see in the labour market with good employment and unemployment. But we still have problems with, among other things, matching in the labour market, the difficulty of reaching the skills required, but also the high cost situation in Sweden. We see in this case how Vattenfall is considering moving jobs from Norrland to low-wage countries precisely for the cost of hiring. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is really: in which areas do you see that the government can help reduce the costs of hiring and running businesses so that more people get the chance to get a first job or get a job at all but also so that jobs do not go from Sweden to other countries, as risks to happen in this case?
i-e82d18e545024e38-474	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the opportunity to participate in the interpellation debate. The debate is really about two different things, so I try to divide it up a little. One is a general policy discussion about where we are going, how the Swedish economy and industry are progressing in the future and what we can do to support job growth. The second is about the rather difficult situation that Jokkmokk now has with the concern that exists for the 40 jobs that are at risk of disappearing if Vattenfall makes the decision that has been discussed. I want to be careful to say that no decision has been made in Vattenfall yet. I have been very careful to say that Vattenfall is a commercial company, as the Riksdag has said it should be. But it is also a state-owned company in Sweden. I have said, and do not apologise for that, that state companies should act exemplaryly. For Vattenfall, Jokkmokk is not just any municipality. A large part of the renewable hydropower comes from Jokkmokk municipality. It is part of Vattenfall's soul that is in Jokkmokk municipality. You shouldn't underestimate that. It is not only about the economic aspects of jobs back and forth, but also about the relationship you have with the municipality that means so much to Vattenfall's activities and future. We say in other contexts that Vattenfall will be one of those who lead the transformation of the energy system towards more sustainable energy production. Much of the sustainable energy production is taken today from Jokkmokk municipality. Therefore, the importance of the Vattenfall brand should not be underestimated in this matter and how one now acts towards Jokkmokk's municipality. I think this is an important issue. I have also argued about this with Vattenfall's management. I have also met the municipal executive in Jokkmokk. I don't know if you have any other idea of this. But I understand that there is now a positive and constructive dialogue between Vattenfall and the municipality where Vattenfall also discusses development opportunities in Jokkmokk municipality. I think this is an important message from Vattenfall which it has now delivered and which I will follow very closely. I do not take this issue lightly. It is an important issue for Vattenfall and, above all, for Jokkmokk, because they need a wider labour market. It is not only state companies and government activities that are important for Jokkmokk. For example, look at the development that is now taking place by the tourism industry in the municipality so that you stand on more legs than before in Jokkmokk's municipality. That's a good thing. These are, of course, important jobs in order to be able to have a broad labour market, to have a strong position as a municipality and for the inhabitants. For me, this is an important issue. I don't have time for everything in the first post. We may then have to come back to the broader economic policy. We're being accused of having a big city fixation in the government. Think about whether the Center Party will have a slightly different tone in this matter after eight years under a moderate-led government. What principles did you have for regional development over eight years? We are talking about state authorities and state activities. There was no directive to work with government activities in the country. The first thing we did as a new government was to say: If we appoint a new authority, we will test whether it can be outside Stockholm. Now we have gone further and analysed parts of the activities of state authorities to see if we can move that business out of the metropolitan regions. That work is ongoing. That is a completely different attitude from that of the previous government. Besides, we're increasing the seats. We are talking about the problem of matching, which is an important issue throughout the country. We increase the places and educational opportunities throughout the country and also at regional and strong regional universities and colleges around Sweden. We see that it is part of the basis of growth policy for the whole of Sweden. We also stand up for a tax equalisation system that evens out the conditions between different municipalities in the country. It is not always the Moderates have done so in Swedish politics.
i-e82d18e545024e38-486	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Damberg does not answer my question. What measures will the Minister and the Government take to keep jobs in Jokkmokk? It wasn't about what the municipality and Vattenfall have been talking about. My question was: what action will Mikael Damberg and the government take? I would like an answer to that. What are the people who are now at risk of losing their jobs going to do? I was in Jokkmokk not long ago, and then I met a lot of those who are employed at Vattenfall Accounting. Several of them said that they have or are commuting out of the municipality – they may work in some mine – and that they worry about what will happen if they lose their jobs. Most of the people who work there are women. Should one be unemployed in the municipality and the other commute will ultimately lead to the family perhaps moving, and then what happens to Jokkmokk's economy? It's going to be a huge defeat for the council. Just as Börje Vestlund did earlier, you might think that 40 jobs in Jokkmokk don't sound much, but if you compare it with Stockholm municipality, it corresponds to 7,400 jobs. I am sure it would then be much more lively both within the government and in the media. Unfortunately, I do not see much of this discussion in national media when it comes to Jokkmokk. Now that we are discussing Jokkmokk and what can be done, I would like to talk about another question that I raised in my interpellation, that is, whether the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government believes that an energy-producing municipality such as Jokkmokk should benefit from the profits that the state makes in the hydropower business, and in what way. The answer I received was no. It is neither in the interest of the Minister nor of the Social Democratic Government to even investigate the question of regions or places such as Jokkmokk, which contribute such great values to the country of Sweden with their hydropower, being able to get some of the values created in the area. The government and the minister say no. One idea that the Center Party has is to make the property tax on, among other things, hydro power more local. Only from Jokkmokk's municipality is the state currently receiving 600 million, and even if that amount may be reduced, there will still be hundreds of beautiful millions that the hydroelectric municipalities could take part in, whether it is a matter of keeping more of the salary for those who do a job or a municipality that gets its natural resources exploited taking part in the profits. In Jokkmokk, Vattenfall, if I am not mistaken, has eleven hydroelectric power plants, including Harspånget, which is Sweden's largest hydroelectric power plant. At the same time, Jokkmokk is one of Sweden's poorest municipalities and finds it difficult to reconcile the economy. If the Minister thinks that Vattenfall should assume its moral responsibility, should not the government also assume its moral responsibility and provide the conditions for municipalities such as Jokkmokk, Åsele and Ragunda to develop instead of having to borrow money for the operation of their commitments as a municipality? In fact, that is the reality of many of these municipalities. Should those who possess these important and nourishing natural resources that have such great significance for our country have to go with their hat in their hands to the state to pray for alms? Is it really morally right, Mikael Damberg?
i-e82d18e545024e38-494	Mr President, I would like to The most important issue on which we should focus in this debate is, of course, how to manage the jobs in Jokkmokk. I am surprised by Fredrik Christensson's claim that it would have something to do with the business environment to make Vattenfall choose to move the jobs. Vattenfall has 40 employees in Jokkmokk. I don't know how many employees Vattenfall has in total right now, but that's at least a few thousand. I honestly don't understand this. That cannot be why you choose to move or outsource the business, but there must be some other reason. I would like to say this: Nuon and lignite are spelled. That's where you have to save in this company. It is quite obvious, and I think that anyone can figure it out – even Fredrik Christensson. When it comes to the fact that you want the hydroelectric municipalities to get more money, you can ask yourself what the other inland municipalities will get. Should we have some municipalities that are flourishing in the interior of Norrland and some that do not get anything and are allowed to continue begging for money from the state? I do not think this is really consistent. Nor should we forget the importance of tax equalisation for these municipalities. Very much of the income you have comes from tax equalisation. I think it is a good thing, and I fully support the reform that we have recently decided on and think it is important that we keep this. It is an important cornerstone of this business.
i-e82d18e545024e38-498	Mr President, I would like to I share Börje Vestlund's view that the Nuon deal was not a good deal, but it was also not the brown coal deal that happened during Göran Persson's time. The discussion about whether or not enterprise policy has an impact on the companies' willingness to stay in Sweden becomes a bit strange for me. Of course, companies in Sweden are affected by the conditions for operating companies in Sweden. They are affected by the tax burden of hiring and running businesses. They are also affected by other things such as regulations and the exercise of authority depending on the activity they carry out. Moving authorities from the major cities and out to the countryside and also the fact that state-owned companies operate throughout the country is of course important. But with a business policy that actually creates the conditions to exploit people's driving forces, we also create the conditions for that very dynamic business environment in Jokkmokk, Lysekil or wherever we may be. That is the extremely important point here. Of course it affects. We have seen for a long time that companies in Sweden have moved their businesses abroad, and we have managed to change our business. But one important reason why they have done so has been precisely the cost situation. I asked you a question before, Mikael Damberg, and I hope to be able to get an answer to it now. What is the government prepared to do to reduce the costs of running companies and employing in Sweden? Unfortunately, the only thing we have seen from the government is the opposite – increased costs for running companies and working in Sweden. As far as the state jobs are concerned, Helena Lindahl raised an extremely important question: What does the government intend to do for the jobs in Jokkmokk that are at risk right now?
i-e82d18e545024e38-504	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the business environment, I can start with Vattenfall. This government has succeeded in what no other government has achieved in decades, i.e. making long-term decisions on a long-term energy agreement in which the Center Party participated. That's good. This is one of the most important prerequisites for Vattenfall's continued work. In addition, the Energy Agreement reduces the costs of Vattenfall both in terms of effect tax and the property tax on hydropower. When we talk about enterprise policy and the cost situation for Vattenfall, the company is currently going through a crisis because it is low energy prices across Europe that affect everyone, but it is also burdened by previous bad business. Brunkolen was a bad climate deal – it is true – but economically it has been a good deal for Vattenfall historically. They have met the profitability requirements in Vattenfall – ask Vattenfall! On the other hand, the Nuon deal has so far resulted in write-downs of SEK 53 billion for the state. Waterfalls are still burdened by this. Therefore, I think it is important not to take a decision in advance that has not been made by Vattenfall. That's what the Center Party is trying to do. I have also tried to argue that right now, after discussions, there has been a good dialogue between the municipality and Vattenfall on development opportunities in Jokkmokk municipality. As the minister responsible, I think that is a good thing. As far as the business environment is concerned, there are currently 120 000 more people going to work every day compared with the election day. In the election campaign, the Center Party said that the low employers' contribution for young people must remain in order to get young people to work. We have removed that reduction, the 16 billion it cost each year. And youth unemployment is now the lowest in 13 years in Sweden. Youth unemployment has fallen dramatically in recent times. It was bad tax policy to waste tax money that way. We'll do other things. For example, we are increasing lending. The Norrland Fund will increase its lending in Norrlandslänen by SEK 500 million over the next few years, in order to support growing companies in Norrlandslänen. Almi as an organisation last year expanded its lending activities to growing companies in Sweden by about 38 percent, because we have added increased resources to Almi and prioritised support for growing companies throughout Sweden. This is important. We are also pursuing regional policy in a different way. This government is the first to have promised to start work on Norrbotniabanan. It was not mentioned by the previous government. It was not to be said by the moderate-led government. There has never been a major investment decision on infrastructure in that scale of a moderate government. It's no wonder. The Moderates are not interested in regional policy. They always want to tackle, for example, the tax equalisation system and make it less favourable for rural municipalities. We resist that. We stand up for the joint distribution of resources throughout Sweden. I understand in a way the logic of the Center Party's proposal on property tax or some form of different taxation for the hydroelectric municipalities. But it's going to be very strange. What happens then? Will Stockholm then be able to take part of its revenue that is created here? It would create a great thrill in Sweden if all the resources now being created in West Sweden, with Volvo's development, were to stay in West Sweden and if all the resources created in Stockholm were to stay only in Stockholm. We have another principle that says that all municipalities should have the right to finance a welfare that should be equal throughout the country. And that principle must apply regardless of whether you have a hydroelectric power plant in your municipality or if you happen to have the bad luck of not having it. The principle of equal opportunities must apply to all municipalities. That's why the tax system looks like it does.
i-e82d18e545024e38-512	Mr President, I would like to As far as property tax is concerned, I – and also the Center Party – maintain that there could well be an investigation to look at how one could give back some of the profits to the municipalities that belong to the poorest in Sweden and that give the rest of the country so much of their natural resources. Even Mikael Damberg can't really think it's okay that Jokkmokk and other municipalities barely have money for the monthly operation. It's not fair. I think there are also Stockholmers and others around the country who agree. In Norway, for example, it is possible. There, hydroelectric municipalities get some of the money back. Perhaps you could look at how things have gone in Norway. You could at least set up an investigation, that is, if you want to and if you are interested. It's not the government. Another thing is that SVT and Swedish Radio wanted to organise a debate in Luleå between government representatives and the opposition next week. The columnist and opinion-maker Lotta Gröning would also be involved. I would be in that debate. I had planned to cancel a committee trip because I felt that this debate is incredibly important, not least for the people in Norrbotten who are actually affected. But not a single government representative had time, not Mikael Damberg and not Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, even though it is his home field. If you do not think that airline tax, mileage tax and the removal of venture capital to northern Sweden through Inland innovation and increased employers' contributions matter, Mikael Damberg, why can't you look people in the eye and come up and say it? Moreover, if you do not think you should get anything back from all that is produced by natural resources and that you contribute from there, why do you not dare to come up, look people in the eyes and say as it is, namely that you do not want to?
i-e82d18e545024e38-516	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for this interpellation debate. I do not think this is the first or last time we have discussed regional development in Sweden. Regional policy is in the heart of this government. It didn't do that to the previous government. The Center Party is on high note now, Helena Lindahl. But in fact, during the eight years you were in power, 15 000 jobs disappeared in Swedish countryside. You had no strategy to work with government development linked to the development of the whole of Sweden so that there would be government jobs and development opportunities in the country. You approved in some strange way a Nuon deal for SEK 97 billion, which still weighs on Vattenfall and does not increase Vattenfall's opportunities to develop and create more jobs around Sweden. If you also add the development issues that are really big for northern Sweden – links to the forest, to the basic industries – the issue of the northern botnia track becomes crucial for Norrbotten's long-term development. Our government has taken the initiative that work on it will start. Since we think it is important, we also make efforts to maintain railway development in rural areas with SEK 850 million in measures, which also promotes public transport in rural areas. We do a lot in this area because we believe that Sweden as a whole has the potential to contribute to growth. We also see that the whole of Sweden does so when 120 000 more go to work today compared to on election day. However, this is not an easy job. We would need to cooperate more in Swedish politics when it comes to developing the whole of Sweden. I look forward to perhaps finding such areas and doing so, also with the Center Party.
i-e82d18e545024e38-521	Mr President, I would like to Olof Lavesson has asked me how I intend to respond to Parliament's announcements regarding the bill More film for more – a coherent film policy, what the timetable for their management looks like and how I intend to act when I have stated that the announcements should be taken care of. Of course, Parliament's announcements in the area of film policy will be prepared in the usual order. Olof Lavesson criticises in his interpellation the Ministry of Culture for having announced that the decision on VAT on admission to cinema shows remains valid even after the Riksdag announcements. I would therefore like to remind you that decisions on the state budget are made following a concerted approach in Parliament. These decisions are not amended by individual notices outside the ordinary budget management. It is therefore a fact that Parliament's decision on the state's budget, including fiscal policy, remains firm even after Parliament's announcements on film policy. The fact that the Ministry of Culture has provided information about this to the public and the actors in the film industry is, in my view, entirely reasonable. The preparation of notices shall be carried out responsibly and taking into account the impact on the State budget as well as on other stakeholders. The preparation of Parliament's announcements on film policy is ongoing, and the Government intends to return in autumn 2016.
i-e82d18e545024e38-524	Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of the summer, we debated here in Parliament the Government's proposal for a new film policy. It was a long and intense debate in which the Minister for Culture and Democracy himself participated. Just over a year earlier, she had announced that the film agreement at the time would be terminated. It promised wide-ranging talks and deep support for what the Minister himself has appointed as the biggest, best and most important cultural policy reform in the parliamentary term. Apart from the fact that we have had a heated media debate, Parliament's parties have been invited to talks on regular occasions. On several occasions we have also announced where we stand. This has mainly concerned financing, organisation and cooperation. But it has not been possible to talk about this. It soon became clear that the government had already made up its mind. The film finally becomes part of the other cultural policy, said the Minister for Culture and Chockhöjde VAT to 25%, unlike any other culture. Now we finally get a state film policy, said the Minister of Culture and delegated all power to a private law foundation. Now everyone in the industry is finally given influence, said the Minister of Culture and degraded the influence that you can sit in different thinkers' groups, also called industry councils. In February, the Culture Committee organised a large public hearing here in Parliament. There, too, it was clear that there was a lack of political support as well as support from large parts of the film industry. However, this time the government chose not to deviate from its line but presented its proposal at the beginning of March. None of the comments that had been made were included. What they had called conversation and anchoring is called information and the invitation to applause. The Committee on Culture also fell the bill in several areas, and it was just as bad in the parliament's chamber in June. Rarely has a bill been so shot up in the Chamber as the Minister of Culture's film bill. On seven key points, the Riksdag made a different decision from what the Government proposed. It failed in terms of funding, organisation, production conditions, collaboration, digitalisation and private copying. The Minister has explained to the media that she does not see announcements as world upheaval and that it responds to announcements that have always been received and that they should be taken care of. She's not prepared to make any changes. Film policy will be implemented as planned in all its parts. When it comes to the parliamentary decision, she seems completely unacceptable and calls it a success. How can a Minister for Democracy land in this conclusion? Madam President, I would like Parliament's decision is not a sandwich table from which you can pick some as you like. The decisions we take in this House should not be taken care of, they should be satisfied and enforced. The tool of announcements gives the government some room for manoeuvre. But a Minister for Democracy should know better than to over-exploit this room for manoeuvre in such a flagrant manner. Now it is said that Parliament's announcements in the area of film policy will be prepared in the usual order. At the same time, however, we honk and roll out a policy that goes in the opposite direction to Parliament's decision. The words of the Minister for Democracy sound false, and her promises unfortunately lack credibility. During the June debate, I put a number of questions to the Minister. I asked the Minister for Democracy how she views the Swedish Parliament and the decisions taken in this House. I wanted to know what plan the Minister for Democracy has for the announcements that were already known at that time. I wanted to know to what extent she will heed the majority of this House. And to the extent that she will not do so, I wonder why she is subjecting a bill to the test of the House at all. How does it rhyme with being a minister of consensus in a cooperation government? That time the Minister chose to sit on his bench and left my questions unanswered, and therefore we have an interpellation debate today. That is why I am giving the Minister for Democracy another chance to do it again and to do it right.
i-912gwSuqFBjyJ4WyHBcKUA	Mrs. alman! Thank you, Member of Parliament Lav esson, for the interpellation and for the continued exchange of views! I intend to fully respect Parliament's decisions and the order of the Swedish Parliament. The announcements that I received a number of months ago are currently being prepared in full in my department. I see it as an opportunity to come back shortly with how we deal with and proceed with the announcements. However, it is worth recalling that it has only been a few months since I received the announcements. During the previous government period and the announcements that came then, it took on average longer than a whole three years until the parliamentary announcements were received. Therefore, I believe that after a few months, I still have plenty of time to ensure that the necessary evidence and the analyses that need to be done – involving many different actors – are thorough and have the effect that we are seeking. An example of another announcement that has taken a very long time to satisfy and has a major impact on cultural policy is the advertising tax. It had the previous government eight years to do something about it, but nothing was done. This government has now made a start on making announcements. I handle, prepare and add odoser announcements at a brisk pace and return shortly, and I believe that this is to respect the rich of today's order and decisions.
i-e82d18e545024e38-540	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by correcting the Minister in this regard with funding. In this House today, the Minister makes it seem that it is no longer possible to influence the VAT level of cinema tickets, since that decision was taken already last autumn. This is not in harmony with the truth. When we decide on the state budget, we will do so for the next year. That decision can also announce what is planned in the future. That's what was done with the bioVAT. We will not make the sharp decision until December of this year. In other words, there is every opportunity for the government to change its mind or to wait on this point. In addition, the industry's players have offered to maintain their funding for another year. In other words, this is just a matter of political will, and what the Minister of Culture's message means here today is that she simply does not want – this even though she knows that the parliament under which her government obeys wants different. I am sorry about that, and I deeply regret it. Madam President, I would like There's a difference between hearing and listening. Peter Dalles's 1994 film Yrrol begins with the philosophers Platon and Teresia arguing about this: 中, one complains. Yes, but you're not listening! 中, counters the other. It feels like that sketch is constantly repeating itself. I am convinced that the Minister for Democracy hears people talking, and I just wish she would listen more. The minister refused to listen last spring. She refused to listen in the fall. She refused to listen when the Culture Committee held its public hearing in February. She closed her ears when the committee spoke in April, and she refused to face the facts when the Parliament made decisions in June. And, Madam President, I do not even hear the Minister for Culture listening today. I do not know whether this is due to the inability to listen or to poor advice. But now the decisions are on the table. It's a bit like you only see Parliament as a rounding mark. The next question, of course, is: What does this mean for the future? At the moment, the Minister is being severely attacked in terms of media policy. To Dage ns Nyheter, the Minister says that a precipice is where the media stand and that she expects the parties of the Riksdag to put forward proposals on how to resolve it – the parties of the Riksdag? But, Madam President, it is still the task of the government and the minister to put forward the policy now that they have taken the taboos? I can reassure the Minister – and I think I am speaking for all parties in Parliament – that we will present our proposals. But the question is whether the government is interested at all. As far as the film is concerned, we presented our policy. We even got a majority in Parliament's Chamber, yet we continue in the opposite direction. Madam President, I would like I think that the Government should take a serious look at what lies in the role of Minister for Democracy. In my oblivion, I thought it was securing our democratic institutions and safeguarding the order that is set for our decision-making. I thought that there was a fundamental respect for the parliamentary composition chosen by the Swedish people and that there would also be an ounce of humility and sensitivity when sitting in a historically weak government. Madam President, I would like I regret that this does not seem to be the case. Now the Minister for Culture says that you should respect the announcements that have been made and follow them. I thank you for that. I respect the fact that it may take some time, as the Minister himself says. But if you are going to follow the decisions, why continue in the opposite direction? Madam President, I would like It is a rather dangerous line to compensate for the wrong direction at increased speed, so I ask the Minister to explain once again: if you are going to follow announcements, why are you going in the opposite direction?
i-e82d18e545024e38-553	Madam President, I would like I will take care of and take care of the announcements made by Parliament. I'm not a friend of putting this on a long bench. I'm a minister and we're a government that makes sure things are done. The Swedish film industry has been calling for many years after a new film policy. They have cried out for being regarded and cared for as part of Swedish cultural policy. The previous government has ignored that. One of the first things that this government does is to get to grips with and dare to push this issue. We dare to turn the stones that have been motionless because many people with power have sat around a table. There have been many with power around a small table, but not enough, if we look at how big the film industry is. What we are now introducing in our country, after all the decisions that have been made, is a film policy that is more democratic. For the first time, film policy becomes part of cultural policy, and Parliament has the mandate to decide on film policy. It is a democratic measure. It is to view film as an important part of cultural policy. I'm very proud of that. But again: I am not going to drag on to accommodate these announcements and do anything of them. I do not want the announcements that come to me during my time as Minister of Culture and Democracy to become announcements that will remain in place for eight years. It is disrespectful to Parliament and to the order that we have in our country. I'll do it. And I do that because I want to show the Parliament that I will handle these announcements. In the near future, I will come back to how we deal with the announcements that have been made in the area of film policy. Film policy is worth it. It is important to have long-term conditions for this industry, which needs time to plan and implement everything that all different parts should do and that becomes film art for all of us to take part in. Now there are conditions. There's a lot going on. There has been a consultation round, and these are issues to be dealt with at many different levels. I look forward to the result of how film policy, after we have met the announcements, can become the power that the Swedish film is worth.
i-e82d18e545024e38-559	Madam President, I would like The Minister says that the government has a mandate to make decisions, and that is also exactly the mandate that Parliament took in June. The Minister then says that it is about wanting, to dare and to do. It's good that you're executive and you want to do things. But it's about doing the right thing. I understand the ambition, but on the way, the Minister of Culture managed to make an enemy of almost the entire film industry. What the Minister is saying today is to follow announcements. Yes, but then what has been said all summer is not true: that this continues according to plan. Then there will be another turn in the autumn. If so, when will it arrive? And what about the Swedish Film Institute, the associations that exist and all the others that act in Swedish film? I would like to end by addressing the Government in her role as Minister of Culture and appealing to her now to take the necessary decisions to direct film policy right. The fact that it did not become what the Minister had planned already shows the referrals that exist regarding the new model of influence at the Swedish Film Institute. "The proposal put forward by SFI is flawed on several points and does not live up to the ambitions presented by Parliament and the Government," says the Swedish Theatre Association. Where did the influence take place as promised by the Minister of Culture? You rightly ask yourself that question. Both the Swedish Cinema owners' association and the Swedish Film Rental Association quite rightly state that the proposal is contrary to the decision of the Riksdag and therefore waits to give their opinion. I would appeal to the Minister for Culture now to put politics above prestige. Take the chance that is given to do this in a good and thorough way! There is space, both time-wise and economical. As has been said, this is demonstrated by the fact that the actors offer to continue to be involved in funding the film in the future, all in order to give Swedish film the anchoring and processing it so well deserves. Do it again, Minister! Now pull the brake a little, and do not honk in the wrong direction! Do the right thing!
i-e82d18e545024e38-564	Madam President, I would like The film policy adopted by this Parliament began to be prepared long before my time by the then Moderate Minister of Culture. She took the first steps, and I took it, but I also drove right up to the goal. Now, in fact, we have a new film policy in our country, a film policy that takes power from the few players and gives it to the many players. The referral bodies referred to by the honourable Member have also been very clear that they fully support the new film policy. What they have now given are referrals, exactly according to the order that we have in our country and that I am very proud of. It will be exciting to see how this process now continues, how SFI will respond to the various referrals and what the final result of the process will be. We have a new film policy, which gives the Riksdag power over the Swedish film and also the opportunity to create good conditions for the Swedish film. There will be no change in the policy put forward. We will accommodate announcements, but the adopted bill will remain adopted.
i-e82d18e545024e38-567	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist what assessment he and the government make on case M2013/00540/ Me on wind power in Hanö Bay, which apparently runs counter to the recently adopted defence policy proposal. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. The matter concerns an application from Blekinge Offshore AB for permission under the Environmental Code to construct and operate a group station for wind power in Hanöbukten. The case is very wide-ranging and concerns a wide range of general and individual interests. It should be dealt with, like all cases, in such a way that legal certainty is maintained and as quickly as possible. The matter is under preparation in the Government Office, and as Minister I cannot and must not anticipate this ongoing government review. But I can assure Mikael Oscarsson that it is included in the preparation to investigate possible consequences for total defense.
i-e82d18e545024e38-569	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I am in this chair today because I am in the Committee on Defence and I am committed to defence issues. We have a completely new situation in Sweden compared to just a few years ago. Russia is far more threatening. We've seen one incident after another. We also know how Russia acted on Crimea and still – as we speak – in Ukraine. It has created a new situation, and we must have a defence that works. That is why, Madam President, we made an agreement. The Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Center Party met with the Green Party and the Social Democrats. There are many pages here, but if you want to summarize this in a word, it's about practice. The exercise has been neglected for a long time, ever since the Cold War. After we were so quick in Sweden to lay down the defense, it is the exercise that has been neglected the most. And if you don't practice a defense, it doesn't work, which is exactly what the outside world sees. That's why Putin is so committed to constantly practicing and demonstrating his ability. It is in the light of this that the issue of training areas is so important. That's why I've committed myself to Tofta's shooting field and other things. There are a number of appeals now on the table of the government. There have been some improvements, but at least 14 or so cases are still on the table. One important point is the question of the new wind farm in Hanö Bay. This is the subject of this debate. In the latest issue of New Technology, Madam President, important information emerges that underscores my interpellation. The proceedings have been ongoing for three years. It's between 500 and 700 wind turbines. It will be the world's largest wind farm, bigger than the one outside London. An important question is: Is this business as usual, or does it get implications for the Swedish Armed Forces? The Swedish Armed Forces say that this is of great importance. I quote from Ny Teknik:中 The facility would have a major impact on several national interests of the Swedish Armed Forces. Partly the flight flotilla in Kallinge, partly the sea exercise areas in Hanöbukten which the marine base in Karlskrona uses, because they are irreplaceable. And the bases have important tasks in war. Then we have another national interest and it is a secret technical system," says Martin Eliasson, architect at the Swedish Armed Forces headquarters. ..................................................... Then the friend of order wonders how big these wind turbines really are. It can be quite interesting, and it is not certain that you have understood it. They can be between 240 and 250 meters high. It is almost 100 meters higher than the Kaknäs tower and 80 percent of the Eiffel tower, which some viewers have probably visited. This has major consequences. I quote further from New Technology: a green light threatens the Swedish Armed Forces to move the marine base in Karlskrona to Berga, outside Stockholm. This, it is said, is preferable to establishing a possible exercise area outside Bornholm. A move of the entire base would affect 1,800 services in Blekinge and the value of billions of investments in defence facilities would be drastically reduced. Saab Kockum's submarine development in Karlskrona is also said to be affected, as testing takes place in the bay. ..................................................... My questions to the Minister for the Environment will be: Isn't this national interest? Isn't that exactly what the government should decide? Isn't that exactly what this deal is about? What's taking so long? When can I get word? What's the schedule?
i-e82d18e545024e38-577	Madam President, I would like The defence policy settlement is of course important to the whole government, and we sanctify it. But we also have a very recent energy settlement, also with a broad base and with very large values for the country's development. An essential part of this deal is a common belief in wind power, especially offshore wind. As the honourable Member describes, we have the opportunity at sea to build very large wind turbines. Large wind turbines are not worth anything in themselves, but the point with them is that they produce a lot of power, and that is a central part of our future energy system. The current application, which is on the government's table, concerns a great many issues, and the preparation is complex. As the honourable Member explained, the Swedish Armed Forces have described in their replies that the preparation is very much involved. It is about the air operations, the stopping area around Ronneby aircraft flotilla, the training areas Hanö Nord, Hanö West and Hanö Ost, reconnaissance and exercise with submarines, the influence area from Ravlunda shooting fields and technical systems in the form of radar. But it's important to get the whole picture. This is just one of the national interests involved. There are national interests for shipping and fishing. Along the coast there are large areas identified as national interests for high-exploited coastlines, mobile outdoor activities and nature and cultural conservation, as well as areas designated as Natura 2000 sites. It has been noted that various bird stretches have their way through Hanö Bay. The eel is identified as an interest and a strongly threatened species. It walks through the bay of Hanö. There are several sensitive species in Hanö Bay that are under threat. One of them is porpoises. Thumperes are complicated because they are among other things very sensitive to sound. This is important in order to understand what a complex issue this is and that it takes time to deal with it in order to get all the facts on the table, hear all stakeholders – both public and private – and then be able to make a well-balanced decision. As I said, I cannot and cannot, as an individual minister, precede that process.
i-e82d18e545024e38-583	Madam President, I would like The Minister for the Environment is starting well. She says in her answer, this is important. She says that the government is sanctifying the agreement – that's a nice expression – and believes in it. But then, Madam President, the Minister for the Environment ends up in Natura 2000. She's on the eel and various other things. I want to go back to the deal like we did. What did it say? The Swedish Armed Forces' overall operational capability is based on the existence of joint armed forces and the existence of knowledge and plans for the effective use of the combat forces. The ability is developed... through training and training – – In order to gradually build up the required operational capability, larger qualified combat forces joint defence forces exercises should be conducted on a regular basis. There are a number of such wordings. This is an area just outside Karlskrona and Ronneby. It's right in a training area for both the Navy and the Air Force. It is one of Sweden's most important and frequently used military training areas. A decision that has not been listened to would be completely devastating for the Swedish Armed Forces and thus for Swedish defence capabilities. That is the last thing we need at a time when the security situation is the worst since the Cold War. The area is located right in the training areas Hanö Nord and Hanö Väst and right next to Hanö Ost. What could be the consequences? Well, it could completely prevent antiaircraft shootings from ships with towed air targets, shootings from ships with towed sea targets, air defence exercises with low - altitude fighter planes, submarine hunting exercises, torpedo shootings, sink bombings, submarine operations and surface combat exercises. So these are not little things. Some adjustments have been made, but the Swedish Armed Forces say that no proposals they have seen have meant that there is no tangible damage to the Swedish Armed Forces' national interests. It is also worth recalling that the Land and Environment Court in Växjö has taken the Blekinge Offshore line. It has approved the construction of 700 works. At the same time, the government has been given the decision. That is precisely the government's task right now: to judge by this. Does it not become clear when you add together the various pieces – that this is one of Sweden's most important and frequently used exercise areas and that the wind power area occupies a considerable part of this area – that this is national interest? If anything is to be of special interest, it is the wind farm. The question is: what is the situation here in planning, and is national security not overtaken by other interests?
i-e82d18e545024e38-591	Madam President, I would like I believe that there is reason to teach the honourable Member how legislation on national interests works. There seems to be some fundamental misunderstanding. There is no such thing as "national interest" in singularity. There is no priority between national interests. There are a number of national interests, and the legislation is based on knowing them well, gathering facts and then weighing them against each other. That is the decision-making that is taking place in our institutions, municipalities and county boards, which are judged by our courts and which may eventually end up on the table of the government. Such an assessment should take into account all interests – the general interests, most commonly referred to in the legislation as national interests, and the individual interests. These should be set against each other. If you sit in the government, you have the task of balancing all these interests. If you sit in a parliamentary committee, perhaps you can have as one-sided a view as the honourable Member expresses and give the impression that there is an interest, singular, that is more important than everyone else. But this is how it is: the energy agreement, as our parties have done and which aims for a stable and renewable energy system in this country, which is based on wind turbines, is based on the fact that there are places where we can actually get to those wind turbines. It is based on the fact that not every part of the country says, "No, but not right here! Somewhere else! We have to find the places, and none of those places will be simple. Everywhere it will be complicated. The Swedish business community, not least the business community in this region, screams for initiatives. It is important for the impact balance that we have an effect in southern Sweden. It's incredibly important to our business community. We include these aspects in the government's assessment. This is a very complex issue. Many interests are weighed together. That work is in full swing. The Swedish Armed Forces are involved in the dialogue, are allowed to speak and have done so through the media. But that is not the only interest we should take into account. It is the Government's ambition to really strengthen the energy supply in Sweden. We want to ensure that we get the shift in energy supply that we agree on between parties so that we get a renewable energy system. Here wind power plays a major role. We cannot just shoot the problems ahead of us and think that we will then solve it. It's important that we get to the bottom of those parts.
i-e82d18e545024e38-598	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answers, Minister for the Environment. As I began with, we have a completely different security policy situation today, which Sweden is in the middle of. We have a situation where we rebuild our ability, and when you build up an ability again, the exercise activity is important. It was the most deprived; that is why we have to invest a lot in it. That's why it's important to get to grips with the appeals that are on the government's table – this is one of the most important, but there are others – and can decide them, because this is like a wet blanket over much of the Armed Forces' activities. As I told the Minister for the Environment, this has major consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces. That is something the Armed Forces themselves say. You don't accept any of the options. If the government does not listen, it may have the consequence that the Armed Forces are forced to move the entire Marine Base in Karlskrona to Berga, moving 1,800 posts, because you can no longer do the job. Surely it is true, Madam President, that national security is overtaken? Shouldn't that be the main thing when judging by this? I hope so. Of course you can look at Natura 2000 and the eel. I don't mind. But here we have, I think, an important question about a training area that is central to our ability to practice freely. I hope that the government will now take it on board, listen to the arguments from me and from the Swedish Armed Forces, ensure that the agreement will prevail so that they can practice and ensure that this wind power park does not happen. There is another wind farm not far away that has been cleared, and it will be built. But this one's in the middle of the road.
i-e82d18e545024e38-603	Madam President, I would like It has emerged in the process and apparently also reached the honourable Member that the issue of wind power in Hanö Bay is difficult and complex in many ways, not least because the Armed Forces have interests and important training areas there. We also clearly agree that it is important for the defence to have increased opportunities to practice in order to meet the expectations of the parliament and government. There is no doubt about it. But it is also the case that, for national security, we need a stable energy supply. It is not so simple that you can always choose one before the other. We have a number of companies that have joined forces in a very ambitious effort that is in line with the government's and Parliament's renewable energy policy. That would be very positive in this particular part of the country. These are aspects that we include when we secure a safe and secure Sweden for the future. Then we cannot simplify matters, but we must be able to deal with the complexity of this issue, among other things.
