i-85dd56d9862008ea-2	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether I am prepared to take the initiative to level out gender imbalances among newcomers from the point of view of gender equality by accepting only women as quota refugees. Resettlement aims, on the one hand, to provide protection for refugees and other persons in need of protection and, on the other hand, to show solidarity with countries outside the EU that have received many people fleeing conflicts in neighbouring areas. The government decision taken each year on the resettlement framework is based on the rules of the Aliens Act. In 2016, priority was given to the Swedish refugee quota, including Syrians from countries in the Middle East and North Africa. In addition, there are non-earmarked sites for emergency investigation and transfer of protection. The Finnish Immigration Service is the responsible Swedish authority and is responsible for the organised removal and transfer of refugees and other persons in need of protection to Sweden. The basis for assessing resettlement is the principle of the person's protection needs. The Finnish Immigration Service examines the protection needs individually. The trial is normally carried out on the basis of a proposal from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR. The Finnish Immigration Service consults the UNHCR as to which groups of persons in need of protection Sweden intends to receive for resettlement. The Finnish Immigration Service, in consultation with the UNHCR, will also identify refugee situations where resettlement can be used strategically. When allocating the annual quota places, some of the places will be dedicated to family reunification. This is one way of using resettlement to enable family reunification. The basis for the assessment of resettlement needs is, as is now the principle of protection requirements under the Aliens Act, and the Migration Agency examines the need for protection individually. Sweden, in cooperation with UNHCR, will continue to resettle people with protection needs and focus on the most vulnerable. UNHCR works to promote gender equality and to ensure equal access for women and men to protection and assistance. Sweden follows UNHCR's resettlement priorities with a focus on protracted refugee situations. Exposed women and girls belong to the refugee groups UNHCR gives special priority to quota refugees. Half of those resettled within the Swedish refugee quota in 2015 were women. In view of the above, I do not see any reason to take any further action in relation to Fredrik Schultes's question.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-10	Madam President, I would like I can't really say much, but I can only say that Fredrik Schulte is unfortunately in a traffic jam. Probably he won't be here for about three minutes, which was the last estimate. I should like to thank the Minister for his answer and to assume that Fredrik Schulte may come back in some appropriate way on the matter.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-12	Madam President, I would like We will surely return to Fredrik Schultes's interpellation a little later, and it is just as well that we give him that chance. I therefore have little more to add, more than possibly one thing. The situation raised by the interpellation, namely that more men than women have come to Sweden during the last year in particular, is part of a pattern. Often men travel first, and then women and children follow through family migration. This means that I believe that this situation is rather temporary. All those who arrived before 24 November will have the opportunity of family reunification, and all those who receive refugee status will also have the opportunity of family reunification. This means that the women and children who are often left in the refugee camps will be able to come to Sweden. Then we will have a better overall distribution. We often strive to increase the proportion of women coming to Sweden within the framework of the UNHCR's refugee quota. One effect of what we have said now in terms of being able to use part of the quota for family reunification is that the distribution will be better than it has been in the past.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-15	Madam President, I would like I apologize for the delay. Saying you're something doesn't automatically make you do it. To say that you are a feminist and that you care about gender equality and think that these are important issues does not automatically make you a good feminist. We now have a government that claims to be a feminist government and claims to have a feminist policy. However, the question is to what extent this really is true. In recent days, we have seen how one of the government's leading representatives, Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, finds it difficult to make it clear that it is not acceptable with leading political representatives who cannot even take women in hand. In an interview, he has had difficulty even explaining how he reasoned and difficult even to understand that this is a gender equality problem. Against this background and in the light of the fact that this government is good at presenting visions and goals in words but that in substance cannot deliver – we have a series of examples of broken electoral promises, betrayals and the like – one cannot really trust what this government says. It is clear that just because the government describes itself as feminist, it is not automatically feminist. In my view, an important gender equality issue is that when we receive asylum seekers, people who flee from war, when we are going to act as a port of solidarity for those people who flee, for example, IS, it must be done in an equal way so that it is not only men who get asylum here in Sweden and a chance to create a future, but it is also women. We have seen that the great pressure on asylum has mainly consisted of the influx of men who have come to Sweden. According to some assessors, Sweden is now approaching a gender balance similar to China. There it is a huge overweight of men. I've asked Morgan Johansson a simple question. Can Morgan Johansson consider accepting mainly women as quota refugees to balance this imbalance? We have now been told by the Minister for Migration that he has no such interest. It is another example of the fact that it is easy to say one thing, that it is easy to claim to be a feminist, but that words do not mean much if you do the exact opposite in action. The response we have received from Morgan Johansson points out that he and the government are not interested in gender equality in practice and that they really stand up for the ideals that they claim to stand for. I think what should be done is to allow women to be a major part of the 5 000 quota refugees that Sweden has committed itself to receiving in 2016. Women usually find it harder than men to escape in war. It is a long, difficult and often life-threatening journey to get from Syria to Sweden, for example. It's a journey that mainly men have dared on. Therefore, Sweden must show solidarity and receive women in the forthcoming reception of quota refugees.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-23	Madam President, I would like Perhaps Fredrik Schulte should have used the time in the car queue to prepare his post a little better. Half of the speech was on a completely different subject from the asylum issue and the quota refugee system. He made digressions that belong in completely different debates. But it'll have to stand for him. The starting point is that Sweden has done more than any other EU country to provide protection for people fleeing from war and conflict. 160 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden last year. Their asylum applications are now being processed. Many of those who arrived last year will receive either refugee status or the possibility of family reunification, within the framework of the new legislation that we will have. As I said in my first post, I see gender imbalance as highly temporary. It is often men who travel first because it is more dangerous for women and children to travel. We know that. In the case of unaccompanied children, it is even more dangerous for young girls. Once the men have been tried and when they have received asylum in Sweden, it is clear that they will have the opportunity for family reunification. And then the rest of the family will come here. Fredrik Schulte talks about gender imbalance, and he compares with China. Where did he get that evidence? After all, the figures are so low that they are in no way comparable to the gender imbalance in China. Fredrik Schulte can in his next post fit on and present the basis for the comparison with China. I do not think he has much on his feet in that part. We will see another gender balance in the future, as we examine the asylum applications that are now coming in. I said in my first speech that I am prepared to review the gender balance also within the framework of the quota refugee system. But what Fredrik Schulte demands in his interpellation is that all quota refugees should be women. In practice, this would mean that we would not be able to accept any families. We could only accept single women who have daughters, if we are to do as Fredrik Schulte wants. We must assume that we will continue to be able to accommodate families within the framework of the quota refugee system. We focus on the most vulnerable in that part. We are constantly having a dialogue with the UNHCR on this. I have one more question. Fredrik Schulte writes in his interpellation that we would have arranged the system in such a way that there will be more men than women to Sweden. I want to say to Fredrik Schulte : Find out where you have got the basis for this with China from! The second is: how would the previous government – we have not deviated from the legislation – and the current government have arranged the system so that only men come? For it sounds like we would have done something consciously to make sure that only men would come. It's a totally distorted picture.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-32	Madam President, I would like To answer Morgan Johansson's questions and clarify, I did not say that Sweden will get a demography like China without Sweden being about to get it, if the reception we had last year had continued. Now we have made a series of migration arrangements that hopefully will not continue at that rate. More countries will take responsibility. But the trend pointed to a gender imbalance if it had continued. With regard to how the system is organised, I meant that we have an asylum reception based on the fact that we receive refugees mainly when they come here to Sweden. We should change that system. We should weigh a greater part of our reception to quota refugees, that is, people who are already in refugee camps in Turkey, for example, because they have fled Syria. We should go from Sweden to these refugee camps and get people from there, instead of making the terrible journey across the Mediterranean and in other ways risking their lives to come here to Sweden. Morgan Johansson himself said that it is a journey made mainly by men, because it is problematic. So we have a system where most of our asylum reception is based on people coming to Sweden rather than going to pick them up. That is the way we have arranged the system so that it puts women at a disadvantage. Then I think it is reasonable for us to ensure a more equal asylum policy for quota refugees. We can go down to crisis areas and get people from there, and they should mainly be women. Then we can balance the gender imbalance. But we can hear here that Morgan Johansson has no interest in it. Again, to say that you are a feminist and that you care about equality does not mean that you actually are and believe in it.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-37	Madam President, I would like We did not get any basis for comparison with China. Fredrik Schulte knows that this is a comparison that is not relevant, especially since more people will be able to get their families here after having received asylum in Sweden, either received refugee status or came before 24 November. Then that picture will look different. There was no basis for the claim, but he was just talking about the trend itself. One consequence of the Geneva Convention is that we must examine the asylum grounds of the people who come to our borders. There is no contradiction between testing whether or not those who come here have asylum grounds and also having an ambitious quota refugee system. With the 1,900 that we have under our quota now, Sweden has the largest refugee quota of all EU countries, in terms of our population. So we take greater responsibility for those who come to our borders than any other EU country, and a greater responsibility than any other EU country for the quota refugee system. It will also increase. Within the framework of the agreement we have, the quota will be increased to 5 000. If Fredrik Schulte had listened to what I said, he would have heard that I would like to review the gender balance in that system. The proposal we have put forward, to be able to use part of the quota for family reunification, will mean that more women will come to Sweden. Then the balance will also be changed within the framework of that system. Fredrik Schulte should listen a little to what I say in the speaker's chair instead of just painting up horror images and drawing conclusions such as he draws.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-42	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Warborn has asked me when an impact assessment can be presented in the case of the European Commission's proposal for a regulation on ensuring cross-border portability of online content services in the internal market. The European Commission presented its proposal on 9 December 2015. The proposal was accompanied by a comprehensive impact assessment. The Government informed the Riksdag of the proposal on 12 January this year by submitting a factual memorandum. The fact memorandum outlined the main features of the Commission's impact assessment. The Government referred the draft regulation and has also convened a reference group for further exchange of views. Negotiations in Brussels started at the end of January this year. Shortly thereafter, the government provided oral information to the Committee on Economic Affairs in the usual order. An additional information opportunity was held in early April. On that occasion, the Committee on Economic Affairs also called for a written impact assessment. In this particular case, the Ministry of Justice has therefore started working on one. The Ministry will present the additional written impact assessment to the committee in good time before the next information session with the committee on 10 May.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-43	Madam President, I would like I have to take responsibility for the title of the interpellation, which reads, "cross-border portability of online content services in the internal market". In spite of the heading, it is something that affects quite a few of us. It concerns anyone who has a Spotify account, a Netflix account or similar. The purpose of the regulation is to enable those of us who have such an account to include it when we are staying temporarily in another country. From the consumer's perspective, it is of course good to be able to move with a subscription while travelling. I would like to thank the Government for the response to the interpellation that was largely expected. I am pleased that the government will now produce an impact assessment. But it is also an alarming response in some parts. It is worrying that the government is now producing the impact assessment, only after the Committee on Economic Affairs has asked for it. The January fact report says that the issue should be thoroughly analysed, and it would have been reasonable to do so in the sense that such material had been available. It is also worrying that the government refers to the Commission's impact assessment. Why? Well, the Commission's task is to think cross-border and think about the whole of Europe. The system of intellectual property law works a little differently. It's territorial. They are looking for patents or trademarks for different countries. When the Commission's will and the system of intellectual property rights are met, there are a few conflicts. Here it would be very good if we had a government that stood up for the Swedish interests and had carried out an impact assessment based on them. The negotiations began in January. As I understand it, there have so far been four negotiations. The Presidency is pushing ahead and wants to conclude the negotiations on 26 and 27 May. Sweden has sat at the negotiating table four times, but it has not done its own analysis. It is only when the Committee on Economic Affairs asks for it that it intends to do so. My question to the Government is, of course: who in these negotiations is it who defends Swedish interests? Who defends the right of Swedish consumers in the negotiations? Who in these negotiations stands up for the Swedish creative industries and the film industry? Who looks after the Swedish cultural workers and rightholders? I am afraid it is not the Swedish Government, unfortunately.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-52	Madam President, I would like Moderates and social democrats can overwhelm a lot, but we do not need to struggle as things that we fundamentally agree on. Unfortunately, I now see that Jörgen Warborn is seeking a conflict that does not exist. We agree on the substance of the matter, that is to say that you should be able to bring services that you subscribe to abroad. It is simply a question of finding a system that ensures that this is done and that all the interests that Jörgen Warborn is talking about are taken care of. An impact assessment is not the same as an analysis of how different interests are affected. But I can assure Jörgen Warborn that we stand up for the rights of consumers and, of course, we also stand up for the rights of the parties to the negotiations. We are going to crack this issue, I am quite convinced of that. But it is not that Sweden has no line, quite the opposite. We are pushing these issues very hard and actively, and we will continue to do so. If the negotiations were not to be completed, it would not depend on Sweden. The impact assessment requested will be presented in good time before the next information session in committee on 10 May. Jörgen Warborn will simply have to wait until then. But, as I said, we basically have the same attitude, and it feels a little strange to run a conflict where we really agree.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-57	Madam President, I would like I don't know if we're in agreement or not. I have not taken note of the government's position in these negotiations. The conflict that I see right now is that I do not think that the government clearly stands up for the Swedish interests in the negotiations. It is possible that it does, but then there should be a basis where the Swedish positions are shown. Sweden is quite unique in an EU perspective. There is a strong creative industry here that also grows a lot. It depends entirely on finding a good solution to intellectual property issues and also to the question of portability. For example, we have major Swedish film successes. We have Spotify which is a successful company. These and many other companies and people working in the cultural sector depend on a good solution. We in Sweden also travel quite a lot. As consumers, we have a great interest in finding a good solution. In addition, tourism is increasing, and we have an influx of people into Sweden. Furthermore, in Sweden we have a large internet maturity. This means that the use of this type of service is relatively large in relation to other countries. What also makes us unique is our size. We are not the largest of the European countries. This is also important in the negotiations. Let me know whether we agree or not on the issues of breaking. What about temporary stay? That is, of course, a concept that must be defined in the negotiations. You have to find a check for temporary stay. I have not understood what the Swedish position is there. What about the definition of residence and how it should be controlled? I have not understood the Swedish position there either. According to the proposal, there should be a difference between the requirement for payment services and the requirement for free services. What will be the effects? How will the regulation affect piracy, which is already very extensive in Sweden? How are rights from third countries, i.e. third parties, handled? This is an issue raised by some in industry. I know we agree on one point. It is said that the regulation will enter into force in six months' time, and it is very short time for companies to have the opportunity to make adjustments. There we agree that that time should be extended, and I hope it is driven hard by the Swedish side. Madam President, I would like When we have discussed these issues in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I have pointed out that it is much better that this regulation should be correct than that it should go quickly. I note that some of these issues have also been highlighted in the discussions during the negotiations. However, I cannot see from the Minutes and the like that the question of the right rather than the speed with which things are going has been highlighted by Sweden. If it is not right, the basis of intellectual property rights risks being dissolved, and then we get what the Commission may have been looking for from the beginning, but which I do not believe is in favour of Swedish interests. It is important that this is handled properly. There were a number of questions for the Government.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-70	Madam President, I would like There were a number of questions that cannot be answered easily because we are in the middle of a negotiation. We agree that this possibility of portability should be created. Then, as Jörgen Warborn pointed out, there are a number of key issues. How to define temporary stay, how to carry out those checks and ensure the issue of residence is exactly what we are talking about. It is difficult to find technical and legal ways to ensure that this is resolved. That is exactly what we are struggling about. But there is nothing that will overturn a deal, as I judge it. With the speed that Holland has in the negotiation process, we will be able to decide on a general direction during the Dutch Presidency. In that case, we will normally anchor these proposals, first in the Committee on Trade and Industry and then in the EU Board. The important thing here is that we agree on the basic idea, that we should be able to take along services that are subscribed to abroad for a limited period of time. With regard to all the other issues relating to technology and how to solve this by law, the parliament must at this time be confident that the government has a good sense of judgment in finding the technical solutions. I have not heard Jörgen Warborn develop his view, if he has any other opinion. He's just asking what we're running. We are pushing for this to be possible, but there must be a system that works. There's a deal. But otherwise Jörgen Warborn will have to wait until we come up with further information for the meeting on 10 May. Then it will have happened even more in the negotiations, I would say.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-76	Madam President, I would like It is a bit funny when the Minister for Justice and Migration says in the opening speech that we agree and that it is unnecessary to seek conflict but then cannot answer my questions about substantive policy. I can have a great deal of sympathy for that, because these are fairly detailed questions, but I have also not received any answers in the Committee on Economic Affairs to such questions. We are four rounds of negotiations into this, I would like to remind you once again, but I have in no way found out what the Swedish positions are. Furthermore, my view of these things is called for. But now it is Morgan Johansson who is the minister and responsible for this. He also has an entire department at his disposal to make an impact assessment from the Swedish perspective. Had it been done as stated in the fact memorandum, the Swedish positions on the issues I have highlighted today could have been much clearer. This interpellation debate might then have been completely unnecessary. I am therefore concerned that these negotiations will slip out of the hands of the government and Sweden, that there will be no one standing up for the Swedish creative industries, the Swedish consumers, the Swedish rightholders and the Swedish cultural workers' opportunities to make money from their creation. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the debate. I hope that it in itself has contributed to the fact that we have moved Sweden from the back seat in the negotiations to a more prominent position.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-80	Madam President, I would like In these processes, Sweden is always in the front seat, precisely in light of what Jörgen Warborn mentions: that we have very strong interests to protect. I can assure Jörgen Warborn that we are conducting a continuous dialogue with the Swedish stakeholders involved. Then this gets the character of shadow boxing, so to speak. I say that we should resolve the issue of the possibility of taking the services with us abroad. However, in order for it to be resolved, it is necessary to resolve the technical details – for example, to define what is a limited time and to set up different forms of controls. Our position is that we will solve this. But when I ask Jörgen Warborn if he has anything to add, if he thinks we should push something further, then he doesn't really say anything– he doesn't want to touch that. When we come a little further along in the negotiations, the positions and the situation may become clearer. Until then, however, Jörgen Warborn will have to wait for us to provide further information, which will take place on 10 May, and for us to produce a written impact assessment in good time before then, as he has requested. I have to say that interpellation debates of this kind are not very necessary at this stage. You in committee know there will be more information. Then I think you can rather wait until you have that information. Then perhaps we can have a debate if we have completely different views on different issues. But the wheels are in motion, and I can say that Jörgen Warborn's interpellation has not stopped them but rather perhaps contributed to putting further pressure on the issue, which is, as I said, good only that.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-85	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures the government is prepared to take to make it clear that the product support of the JAS 39 Gripen E engine is also an essential safety interest and what measures the government is prepared to take to ensure that the procurement of product support, including maintenance of the new aircraft engine, is directed towards the Swedish defence industry. The government has decided on the acquisition of JAS 39 E. The Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration have placed the required orders, and the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration has a mandate to conclude contracts with the industry. The Government has stated that combat flight capability is an area of essential importance for Sweden's defence and has stated in the decision to focus on the authorities that this means that the ability should be maintained and developed in a way that is rational in relation to the requirements of war ability and good management with state resources. I assume that the authority and industry in the agreements will safeguard combat flight capability as an essential safety interest, as well as that the resulting solution will be cost-effective and meet the requirements of warability for the overall Gripen system and be compatible with Swedish procurement law.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-87	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. It is a company called GKN, formerly called Volvo Aero, in Trollhättan in Västra Götaland that has operated our aircraft engines in the Swedish fighter aircraft since the first JAS Gripen aircraft was rolled out in the early 1990s. Volvo Aero / GKN has done the job with that honour, Madam President. One can note something that is almost unique, namely that 250 000 hours of flight were flown without a single engine-related accident. The military operations at GKN in Trollhättan account for only a few percent of the total turnover. However, the fact that GKN has a holistic perspective on the Swedish combat aircraft engines is of crucial importance to the entire circle of customers that GKN has on the civilian side. It is also this holistic approach that underpins the overall competence of the company. In the long run, therefore, Madam President, it is not only the 200 jobs at GKN that are aimed at military activities that are at stake. Ultimately, there are over 2 000 jobs in this industry in Västra Götaland. I am, first and foremost, a defence policy, if anyone thought otherwise. What drives me in this debate is the interest that our combat aircraft will be able to remain available to the Swedish Air Force and the Swedish Armed Forces. JAS Gripen is the single most expensive and most important component in our defence. A week or so ago, the aviation safety inspector shut down our two air repair shops. He referred to poor governance in the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and a lack of safety culture. Already today, Madam President, the maintenance and repair of our combat aircraft and their engines is a very complex story. But it will be even worse if the Swedish Armed Forces should first turn to the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV), which will then turn to Saab, which in turn will turn to a foreign supplier, General Electric, in order to finally contact GKN in Trollhättan. That is why, Madam President, I believe that, for reasons of national security, there should be a Swedish advice on the product support of Swedish aircraft engines. Madam President, I would like I suspect that Peter Hultqvist shares many of my views. During a previous debate between us, the Minister for Defence said that he was happy to see that as much as possible of this activity ended up in Sweden. I believe that he really only needs to say what is quite obvious: If Swedish combat flying is an essential national safety interest, the single most important and expensive component of this ability, the aircraft engine, is also part of such an interest. I therefore believe that it is sufficient for the Minister to make a clarification on this particular point in order to ensure a Swedish solution for the future product support of our aircraft engines.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-94	Madam President, I would like When we discuss the issue and take into account the overall perspective of the Swedish defence industry, it is easy to note that in the sector totals 30 000 jobs directly in the defence industry and in the sphere of impact a total of about 100 000 jobs. There is a very clear link between civilian and military and a broader effect. There is also great potential for results in research on the military side, which then slips over into effects also on the civilian side. As far as this kind of basic approach is concerned, I really have no other view than what Allan Widman here reports. The battle flight with the JAS Gripen system is identified as an essential safety interest. It is a way of marking that it is a product that will be developed in Sweden, will be manufactured in Sweden and adapted to Swedish conditions. It should be a Swedish-Norwegian design that suits our operational needs. That is the whole issue. There are, of course, formal possibilities to look at parts of a system. The question is whether or not to identify them as an essential security interest. However, this does not mean that each individual subsystem or component is to be regarded as a separate essential safety interest where specific measures can be taken. As we see it, there is now a process between the authorities and industry stakeholders to try to find a solution. True, it is something that has been going on for a period of time. I am optimistic that a production support solution can be found between the various stakeholders discussing this right now. It is a process that can continue on the basis of the contractual and liability relationships that exist. It is a process in which we, the government, do not intend to intervene. That's the situation. I assume that a solution will be found. When it comes to the description of GKN's operations and how it has handled the assignments it has had in the past, I have no other opinion than that it is an operation that has worked well. I also assume that there will eventually be an agreement on those pieces. But we will not intervene in that process.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-100	Madam President, I would like It is important to bear in mind that essential national security interests are essential to avoid competitive procurement and to be able to target procurement to a specific industry. It does not need to be domestic or operational within the country. It may also be foreign industry that you have the opportunity to turn to. Therefore, it is very important that Peter Hultqvist still clarifies: What does it mean that combat flying ability is a national essential safety interest? The Minister of Detention says that every component cannot be covered by that concept. No, I agree. The contents of the combined fighter aircraft are almost essentially foreign. Madam President, I would like The engine represents about 40 percent of the life cycle cost of a fighter aircraft. In the case of Gripen E, it means approximately SEK 40 billion that can be directly linked to the engine, with purchase, acquisition and maintenance. It's certainly not just any component. One could say that it is one of the three components that construct a fighter plane. Therefore, I have to ask the Minister for Defence once again: if the fighter aircraft are an essential interest in safety, is this not also the most important component of the engine? The Secretary of Defense says there's a process going on. That is quite correct. The industries involved have been negotiating the matter for much more than a year. The Committee on Defence has repeatedly asked the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration: When will it be concluded? A number of different times have been promised, all of which have now passed. About a year ago, the then Director General of FMV Lena Erixon wrote that they wanted GKN to have substantially the same advice over the new engine in Gripen E that they currently have over the engines in C/ D and A/ B. It is important to remember that it is also about economies of scale. FMV has already signed a contract with GKN for the old existing engines, which will need to be maintained for a few more decades. It would then be completely irrational to place product support for the new engines, which belong to the same family, elsewhere. As the Minister for Defence writes in his reply, this is about finding cost-effective and rational solutions. It's economies of scale.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-107	Madam President, I would like As I understand it, FMV has said that Saab and GKN have signed a joint statement and that an agreement between the companies creates the conditions for FMV to sign a product support agreement for engine F414 similar to what currently exists for RM12 in Gripen C/D. As I have said before, we will not intervene in the negotiations and the process now under way. However, I hope that the agreement will eventually be reached. I simply assume that this is the case. But you shouldn't promise anything until it's done. But the Department of Defense is no part of that negotiation. It is between the stakeholders that the hearing takes place. The battle-flying project has a timetable. The flight system will start operating in 2019. I therefore believe that there is time in relation to that kind of timing. Of course, like Mr Widman, I am anxious that there should be an agreement. As far as security interests are concerned, however, I would like to say that the Government will continue to have the ambition to use the possibility of departure from EU law if it is deemed necessary to protect a substantial security interest. There is no opposition in principle to that. During the previous parliamentary term, we pushed very clearly towards the then government that we thought that combat aircraft, among other things, should be identified as an essential security interest, and this was also the case. In any case, it is important to emphasise that, according to the order we have, it is the authorities that have to apply law including the procurement rules. They are therefore responsible for assessing in each case the exemption provided for in Article 346 under the applicable procurement law of the TFEU. There are formal parts when it comes to who takes care of what. As far as the engine is concerned, it is essential. We agree that it is crucial throughout the system. It concerns the overall design, the overall design, the operational standard and the adaptation, our conditions want to be met. It is the whole of the system that constitutes the essential security interest. One can, of course, identify individual subsystems in it. But this is not done in the proposal made by the previous government in the budget bill when it marked this. I am not going to go into different subsystems in this context. When it comes to the current interpellation about the production that will hopefully take place in Sweden, one can solve the issue in the negotiations that are now under way. That's the line we have.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-115	Madam President, I would like Now the Minister for Defence refers to a LOI, a letter of intent, which was concluded between the two industries in autumn 2015. Unfortunately, that agreement has not enabled the existing conflicts to be resolved, but the real negotiations on where product support and maintenance should be located are still ongoing. I am fully aware that, for constitutional reasons, the Minister of Defence cannot point with all his hand to his authority FMV on a case-by-case basis. However, it is the government that has and has control over the definition of essential security interests, and I must nevertheless express my disappointment, Madam President, when the Minister for Defence says that he does not want to go into individual components or subsystems of this system of combat flying systems. When he gives that information, he shows a certain indifference not only to the many jobs involved in Västra Götaland and the skills that are important for large parts of the civil industry in this area. He is, I believe, also a disservice to himself as Minister of Defence in that we need to have a solution of engine maintenance that we can afford and control, which is located on Swedish territory and which means a minimal dependence on other countries and foreign companies to keep our combat flight capabilities going. I am somewhat disappointed that the government is taking such a defensive stance on such an important issue, both labour market policy, industrial policy, regional policy and not least, Madam President, security policy.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-119	Madam President, I would like The question is how far to go with excesses. First, Mr Widman notes that he knows that, for constitutional reasons, it is difficult to point out with the whole hand in the matter. I also know that there is a tendency to report to the Constitutional Committee as soon as possible, and in that industry Widman is also an active man. I am therefore not going to stand here and talk my way into a new KU notification. I believe, of course, that we should guard the Swedish defence industry. It is something that we are constantly working on in promoting activities, in good cooperation and in identifying essential security interests. But intervening in a negotiation is not a reasonable approach. These are matters that are dealt with on the authority side in terms of state power. Allan Widman replies regarding letter of intent or joint statement and says that it does not matter because the discussion is ongoing between the parties. But that is precisely the point of departure for this discussion: that negotiation is ongoing and is not concluded yet, and I hope and believe that it will be concluded. In any case, I assume so, because it is surely the case that we must ultimately come up with a solution. But the aircraft will start to be delivered in 2019, as I said. I think it is a powerful exaggeration now to begin to draw in that there would be some kind of indifference from the government. We are not indifferent, but we do have to deal with a regulatory framework in this context. Then it may not be reasonable for me to point out parts of a system as a fundamental security interest in this type of parliamentary debate.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-123	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren has asked me the following questions: The Swedish Declaration of Solidarity is a central part of Swedish security policy. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack strikes another EU Member State or Nordic country, and we expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon commits all Member States to provide assistance and assistance with all available means in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter to another Member State if it is subjected to an armed attack on its territory. Each individual Member State chooses how it helps another Member State or how it wants to receive any assistance. The support can be military, civilian or political. Article 42(7) does not affect the specific nature of the security and defence policy of certain Member States, which means that the article does not affect our military alliance freedom. The way in which Finland acts in a given situation is determined by Finland. I share Kerstin Lundgren's view on the need for broad support for defence and security policy, but do not share the view that the government lacks such support. The security policy orientation that underpins the orientation bill and that five parliamentary parties – the two government parties, as well as the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats – supported it in June 2015. This clearly shows the need for deeper cooperation with other countries, including Finland. A direct result of the defence agreement was the study led by Ambassador Krister Bringéus with the task of analysing and explaining from an independent perspective the meaning of various forms of cooperation and membership with countries and organisations, as well as their advantages and disadvantages, in the field of defence and security policy. The analysis should not assess military alliance freedom. As far as Swedish-Finnish defence cooperation is concerned, it is a comprehensive and high priority of the government. Sweden and Finland have a similar security policy starting point, and cooperation between the countries is already extensive today. The cooperation strengthens national capabilities in each country and creates greater security in the neighbourhood. Finland and Sweden have agreed that bilateral defence cooperation will also include operational planning and preparation for the joint use of civilian and military resources in various scenarios. Examples of this may be the assertion of the territorial integrity of each country or the exercise of the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. I would like to stress that such planning should be complementary to, but distinct from, the national planning of each country. Cooperation offers the opportunity for joint action but does not offer any commitment. Only if the necessary political decisions are taken can the countries act together. Sweden's security policy line is solid. Military alliance freedom contributes to stability in the immediate region and gives us freedom of action. Our security does not come of itself, but is our own responsibility to build up. This applies both to our national defence capabilities and to our ability to act jointly with others to promote stability and security and to raise the threshold for military incidents and conflicts. Sweden's security and defence cooperation is being developed within the framework of the EU, the UN, the OSSE, NATO's partnership as well as with Finland, the other Nordic countries, the Baltic States and through the transatlantic link. These collaborations complement and strengthen each other and the security of our neighbourhood.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-133	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for answering my four questions or at least parts of those questions! I think it is a good thing that the Minister for Defence so clearly marks the solidarity clause as a central part of Swedish security policy. What concerns me, Madam President, is what I am pointing out in my interpellation, namely that the President of Finland has been clear on several occasions and has stated that it has no capacity to take responsibility for others, to take responsibility for the solidarity clause that we expect it to do. It is ultimately also about military action, otherwise it is not worth much. This is not clear from the defence minister's reply. The President of Finland expressed himself as follows: However, I have had to be quite precise on this issue. For the simple reason that Finland is not in a position where it can provide other military security garantee such as it does not even have itself. – – – If, in these circumstances, a people of more than five million people are in principle responsible for their defences, it is a sufficient responsibility. ..................................................... Finland therefore perceives that it does not have the ability to respond with solidarity, military if that is, with us – or with our Baltic neighbours, which we consider to be part of our responsibility. I wonder, Madam President, whether this approach does not fundamentally undermine a central part of our security policy, undermine our solidarity clause. Madam President, I would like Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are our neighbours, and we have said – I assume that the Minister for Defence shares this view – that our solidarity means that we are also militaryly prepared to assist them if necessary. But they do not believe us when it comes to our solidarity, Madam President. At least that's what I've heard. They do not see it as credible because we cannot provide guarantees. Guarantees are contained in NATO's Article 5, and that is the only guarantee that exists. It is also a guarantee that Finland does not have and it is therefore said that it cannot give others. This means, of course, that our whole solidarity clause and the whole of our solidarity work, which is a central part of our security policy, are being eroded. Broad consensus on security policy has also been asked, Madam President. I take note of the paragraph referred to by the Minister for Defence, because that was also the paragraph on which we agreed in the negotiations on the defence policy proposal. This is exactly what landed in a study under Krister Bring é us's mandate. But that is where the broad consensus ends. One piece of the defence policy proposal is not a broad consensus. The military freedom of alliance does not mean that we have a broad consensus on this, does it? It has the government's agreement with the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. I do not see this as a broad consensus, but perhaps the Minister for Defence is satisfied with that.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-141	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the findings made by Kerstin Lundgren in her interpellation. I believe that, in addition to this, at least four conclusions may have to be drawn. But let me start by saying this, Madam President: defence cooperation with our neighbours and with like-minded countries is, of course, something fundamentally very positive. It is something that has been going on under several governments, both the Alliance Government and the Löfven Government. Nevertheless, Madam President, the image that the Minister for Defence and the Government are trying to paint is an illusion in which this cooperation in the internal red-green debate is described as a substitute for and an alternative to NATO membership. Kerstin Lundgren is also into this in her interpellation. It is a fundamentally very false picture, and there is reason to question the realism of this. As they say, it takes two to tango to actually take two to tango. And the Finnish approach to this is not only a very separate one, but is in direct opposition to the position on which there is broad political agreement in the Swedish Parliament, namely the Declaration of Solidarity. It has been a central part of Swedish foreign and security policy for a number of years, and the government repeated it in the foreign policy declaration on 24 February this year. It is just as Kerstin Lundgren states: Both the Finnish President and Peter Hultqvist's Finnish colleague, i.e. Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö, have a completely different view of the declaration of solidarity than we have in Sweden. It is said that Finland can and will only take responsibility for itself. It stands in quite a stark contrast to the Swedish attitude. We say that if an EU country or a Nordic country is subjected to some form of attack or some kind of disaster, Sweden is expected to be prepared to provide help but also receive help. Again, Finland has stated a number of times that it does not share this view. This undermines the very basis of the argument of the Minister for Defence. Let me conclude, Madam President, with perhaps the most remarkable observation. In fact, I would like a clear answer from the Minister for Defence. Our military strategic doctrine, the Swedish Armed Forces' military strategic doctrine, which was presented less than a month ago, does not mention military cooperation with Finland at all. If it were such a necessary and central part of Sweden's security and foreign policy, I think it would have been mentioned in that document. I would like to hear some reflections from the Minister for Defence on why this cooperation, to which the Minister for Defence so often refers, is not mentioned at all in the military strategic doctrine of the Armed Forces.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-150	Madam President, I would like If I understand the situation correctly, Finland is a member of the European Union. Perhaps we agree on that. The Treaty of Lisbon also applies to Finland, does it not? There is, as we know from what happened after the terrorist attacks in Paris, something called 42.7, which involves mutual support and assistance if any Member State so requests. As I understand it, Finland has not come out of any part of the EU's Lisbon Treaty. One can always speculate on what happens in a crisis situation and how different countries choose to position themselves in such a situation. But when you do that type of scenario you often have fundamentally wrong input values, because what becomes the real scenarios you only know when you are there. It is also only when you know how different countries choose to act depending on how such a conflict affects. What I can nevertheless say is that Finland is very ambitious and keen on the cooperation we are working on. We have a common understanding of how important it is to develop Swedish-Finnish cooperation. We do so according to the agreements, guidelines and regulations that we have presented by the government. I see this as something fundamentally positive and stabilizing in our part of Europe. We work together, for example on the airside, with Norway and Finland 40 times a year – sometimes once a week. It is a cooperation that is largely being deepened month by month, where we are taking steps forward. It is not in any way a matter of ex ante obligations; it is a matter of creating opportunities to act if it proves necessary in a crisis situation and then also being able to use common resources. That is why we are developing joint planning beyond peace-time conditions. So this is a work that is going on and which I think is fundamentally positive. Then you can go on and discuss different approaches and the situations in which statements and other things have been made. I can only say that I myself am very involved in this work and that I see how the positions are being moved forward. I think that's good. What we have also stated in the Swedish Defence Committee as a Swedish starting point – one can of course discuss this from different approaches – is that it is very unlikely that a crisis in our part of Europe would involve only one country. It would affect all of us in one form or another. Then it is enough to see exactly how individual countries act once we are in such a situation. The purpose of our cooperation is to avoid this type of crisis and conflict. That is why the fact that two military non-aligned countries are developing cooperation is very stabilizing. This cooperation, and the cooperation we engage in, is what they are. They have no ambition to be an alternative-Nato or any substitute for anything else. They're what they are. It is about exercises, information exchange and material cooperation that can be developed. We are now building relations with the Baltic countries, Poland and Denmark. We're developing Nordefco. We are actively working on the transatlantic link. These are broad collaborations that we are conducting.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-158	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister for Defence has understood that there is no broad consensus on military alliance freedom and therefore no broad consensus on Swedish security policy in essence. As far as cooperation with others is concerned, we agree that we need it, but we want to see cooperation that provides security and not instability. When I hear the Minister of Defence talking about that we should have different paths and that you do not know how to act if the accident should be in our immediate vicinity or here, even, it is a picture of just ambiguity. If, as the Minister for Defence says, we want to raise the thresholds and thus contribute to stability, it is important to be clear how we will act if something happens. We have experienced uncertainty from the Russian side, where we now know – or do not know – exactly what is planned. It is important that we are clear, that we give our neighbours clarity about what we mean and that we are also prepared not only to talk about solidarity but also to guarantee it. Why does the Minister of Defence not want to see a security policy that actually guarantees solidarity and not just talks about it in formal speeches? And does the Minister of Defence think that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, through their membership of NATO, have contributed to instability for us? There is a great deal that still needs to be clarified. If we really want to create a security policy that promotes stability and raises the thresholds for military incidents and conflicts, it is about clarity and transparency, not about ambiguity about our choices. We must be clear that we are also in the military. This means the solidarity clause for us, and I assume that the Minister for Defence also believes that we should be able to provide military support to the Baltic countries just as we do to our other neighbours. If the accident were to occur, we are prepared to be there – not only to have a discussion that we might be in the hands of one or the other, but also to do military work. Otherwise, we have no real strength in our security reasoning and in our solidarity clause. I heard the Minister of Defence say that cooperation with Finland is not a substitute. Then it is clear that the image of a defence alliance, which some people see as an alternative, is not the defence minister's image of cooperation and where it should end. A defence alliance would also require a common foreign and security policy. Of course, it would also require us to take altitude to go into something completely different. However, I do not believe that this is the final objective of the Minister for Defence with regard to cooperation with Finland.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-163	Madam President, I would like The consensus that the Minister for Defence asserts on the issue we are now discussing is, I would say, non-existent. The only consensus on this issue is between the Red Green Government, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. I would like answers to the question I asked. Since military cooperation with Finland has played such a central role in the defence minister's own argumentation in recent months and in the past year, it is quite remarkable that in the military strategic doctrine presented less than a month ago, the Swedish Armed Forces do not mention this cooperation at all. My point is that it has very little anchoring in reality. I would like a reflection and a comment from the Minister for Defence on why military cooperation with Finland is not mentioned at all in the Armed Forces' own orientation document. Here I would like to hear an answer and a comment.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-166	Madam President, I would like There is therefore planning in progress for how we, together with Finland, deal with scenarios beyond peace-time conditions. There is ongoing construction of the Swedish-Finnish Naval Task Group. Work is under way on how to exploit each other's air bases and ports. Work is under way on exchanging information in a different way. Work is under way on a wide range of issues. To then try to describe this as having no value is devoid of reality! Then you don't know what's going on. Now, in all cases, I've been informed of some of what's going on. These are real things for both the Swedish and Finnish governments and for both countries' defence management. Kerstin Lundgren, you move with general formulations about what one or other means in a crisis situation. I don't think you know what we're going to do in a possible crisis situation. I don't think you know what Finland is doing in a possible crisis situation. Depending on the scenario, the course of events, arising in a crisis situation, the instruments to be used and the role to be played by an individual country are chosen. I don't think you can tell me exactly what's going to happen. The important thing now is to create collaborations and interfaces so that, when such a situation arises, one can act together in a simple way if one decides to do so on the basis of what is wise in such a situation. But I'm not going to stand here and speculate on this. What is being presented in this House will be a very theoretical discussion. I believe that the realities when dealing with such a situation will be quite different from what is sometimes imagined in the political world. You can think about another thing too. How do you best prevent conflicts and crises? Is that by changing security policy doctrines quickly? I don't think so. I believe that stability is best served in the long term by maintaining our basic position of military alliance freedom and, on that basis, extending and deepening our cooperation over the whole map I have previously presented here. This is the strategy we have and which we are starting from because of the defence decision in the Swedish Parliament, which five political parties support. That's where we mean the consensus is. Then the issue of NATO was resolved by setting up an investigation that would look at all our cooperations, but the military freedom of alliance would not be evaluated. It was important for the government in the light of the fact that we did not want to create any uncertainty about the basic Swedish line with regard to military alliance freedom. We did not want to send that signal to a world that in many ways is unpredictable. I think that what the government and I do in everyday life with all these collaborations is well established in the Swedish parliament. The importance of such cooperation should not be underestimated as conflict prevention and stabilisation. They are very important from that point of view. And I know that Sweden is an appreciated partner in these collaborations, that we get very good feedback and that you also trust what we say and do in different contexts. Finally, we are in the cybercenter in Tallinn, and we will apply to join Stratcom in Riga.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-176	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that we appreciate cooperation. There's a deal. We think it is important and good, the Minister for Defence, with various collaborations and willingness to cooperate. Here, the Secretary of Defense is doing a good job of building collaborations. But it would be very good if we could also continue to build partnerships to prevent conflict with others. The Minister for Defence now describes the close cooperation with Finland, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania and so on. We have taken many steps. And we agree on the new effort in the Baltics, as well as on the host country agreement and other things that come to facilitate cooperation. Nevertheless, it is an interesting picture that the Minister for Defence really insists that no one knows what is happening, as part of a security policy base. It will be a little strange for me, Madam President, because the whole idea of the central point of solidarity is that one should know that we are doing it. It is not only 42.7, but Sweden has a one-sided solidarity clause that says: If that happens, we will stand up, also militarily. You should know that. We also expect others to do so when it comes to us. I do not see any doubt in the Minister for Defence in that respect, because I hope that he is clear. We're in the military, too. That is the guarantee on our part in the solidarity clause. And the move from that to Article 5 of NATO is, of course, just a further clarification which is about showing that we are serious about our solidarity and that we expect others to do the same.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-179	Madam President, I would like The first thing I did in the interpellation response was to refer to the declaration of solidarity. I also talked about the 42.7 of the Lisbon Treaty. Here we have made commitments in practice, which we have also presented both to Parliament and in relation to France, which was relevant in this context. And it was the first time that it had been tried. Sweden has shown that it is prepared to do so. Then there is the matter of nobody knowing what is happening. How many had accurately foreseen Crimea and the hybrid course that took place in that context? That's what I'm trying to talk about. What does a crisis case possibly look like? It is very difficult to predict what a crisis case looks like in practice. It is not the same as being passive or not dealing with it. This is what we are preparing with all these collaborations. It is also a question of being able, together with others, to deal with a crisis situation. But v i does not decide from the beginning what we do, because it is impossible. There will be a debate where you have a statement that you use as a security policy basis based on what I'm trying to discuss based on a real practical situation, how it would be handled in a crisis situation. I think there are very few people who have the prediction that they can say: This is what a crisis is like, and we do exactly this way in that situation. I don't think that person exists. On the other hand, you can prepare in different ways. That is what we are doing through the combination of stability in military alliance freedom, deepening cooperation and an increased military capability. I also think it is a good thing that we have a broad defence and security agreement in which we agree on the whole direction, except that you from the bourgeois parties are pushing the NATO issue.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-184	Madam President, I would like Kerstin Lundgren has asked me if it is my political will and the government's political will that Sweden should cut back support for the development of parliamentary democracy in Africa and completely end its long-standing cooperation with the organisation Awesome International. Kerstin Lundgren has also asked me whether the government intends to reduce support for developing parliamentary democracy at regional level in the new cooperation strategy. Democracy and human rights are a high priority in Swedish development cooperation. Sweden is one of the world's largest donors in the field of democracy aid and has for many years been providing extensive support to organisations that promote strengthened democracy in Africa. The Government's objective is to decide on a new regional strategy for development cooperation with sub-Saharan Africa for the period 2016–2020 by the end of this year. Therefore, on 24 September 2015, the Government instructed Sida and the Folke Bernadotte Academy to provide input for a new strategy for Sweden's assistance in support of regional development cooperation in sub-Saharan Africa. The instructions to these authorities specifically highlight issues of democracy, gender equality and human rights, as we see continued challenges in these areas. Other areas of cooperation concern issues of human security, freedom from violence, economic integration, sustainable use of common natural resources and regional resilience. Sida is tasked with implementing the strategies for development cooperation decided by the Government and conducting dialogue, identifying, deciding on and following up effective actions that can contribute to achieving the strategy's objectives. The Swedish administrative model entails a high degree of delegated responsibility from the government to the authorities. The authorities carry out their activities within the framework of the governance provided by law and regulation, authority instruction, regulatory letters and specific mandates. The independent position and extensive powers of the authorities to decide on how to solve their own tasks is an important component of the Swedish administration. The Government therefore has no ambition to regulate in detail which initiatives or partners the authority Sida chooses. But I am informed that Sida is conducting a dialogue with Awepa, including how financial support could be secured, for example, through the EU's Pan-African programme. I would also like to make it clear that the government has not taken a decision to prioritise this type of aid. Swedish efforts in support of parliamentary democracy in Africa do not only go through Awepa and are not just based on efforts in the regional cooperation strategy. For example, through the PAO strategy, party-related organisations' democratic support, four Swedish party-related organisations, among them the Center Party's International Foundation, receive support for a programme for young African politicians. The thematic strategy for specific actions on human rights and democratisation 2014 – 2017 also provides global support specifically for the parliamentary aspect of democracy.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-190	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Development, for the answer to my questions! I note that the picture is that there has been an evaluation of the cooperation that has taken place. The evaluation came in 2015. It shows a good outcome. As a result of refugee censuses, it has been estimated that there is no possibility of supporting parliaments and parliamentarians because it is not a priority. The government, in its preparation of a new strategy, obviously did not give priority to the very core of the parliaments, namely the parliamentarians. The starting point, of course, is to see how we achieve stability, how parliaments are created as a conflict resolution arena. It is based on the fact that parliamentarians have the power and the ability to act as conflict solvers. The Minister for Development often works with conflict issues, and she should pay attention to the value of securing the role of parliaments. Unfortunately, it seems that the government's work to strengthen governance, to work conflict prevention, for democracy, is more about supporting governments and building institutions than supporting parliaments as parliaments. One of the signals I have received, Madam President, is that the parliaments are not identified as a strategic point in the new strategy. It is also one of the pictures that has been given for the reason that the Swedish side wants to end a 30-year collaboration with Awepa and Awepa International. It cannot be interpreted in any other way than that the parliaments are not judged to be focus areas. I'm sorry about that. I have also heard that the parliaments are perceived as difficult because parliamentarians are being replaced. They come and go. I have seen this in part of the communication I myself have had. It is, of course, part of the challenge, but it is also part of democracy. Madam President, I would like Both the one and the other party provide support for building parties that create opportunities for people to take on missions in parliament and thus be the voice of the people into problem-solving missions. They're important. But if parliaments are toothless and unable to work, the conditions will be difficult. In many African countries the challenge is that government power is strong. The government has a great advantage over the parliaments. There will be no balance and parliaments will not be more contentious. That is why it is important to continue to work as parliaments and parliamentarians of parliamentarians. Awepa is precisely an organisation that works as parliamentarians. It is regrettable that Sweden is referring to talks with the EU's Pan-African programme or is referring to global support – UNDP, I am assuming – to be involved in supporting but not supporting the long-standing 30-year cooperation with Awepa International.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-197	Madam President, I would like I understand that Kerstin Lundgren has a commitment to Awepa because she is also on the board. But as I explained, the government does not go into detail and tell Sida or the Folke Bernadotte Foundation exactly which partners to focus on. I can only note that, with regard to the current strategy, one of the absolute priority areas decided by the previous government is to promote democratic development mainly through anti-corruption. Sida has interpreted it so that this particular support is not primarily a question of promoting anti-corruption. The government will present a new regional cooperation strategy in which we will give priority to human rights and democracy. This has not been the case before. I would like to emphasise that it is not only through the regional strategy that our support for democracy goes. I would strongly contradict the insinuation that this government only strengthens governments and institutions. The largest share of Sida's operations goes to democracy assistance. That's 5.8 billion. So far, an extremely small part of it is going to strengthen institutions. There are also other strategies. For example, the PAO strategy goes to a programme for young African politicians, the Programme for Young Politics in Africa. It is the Center that is the initiator. The Thematic Strategy on Human Rights provides global support to, for example, the Inter-Parliamentary Union and Parliamentarians for Global Action, which have programme activities in Africa. As regards the specific case of Awepa, there has been a dependence on support from Sweden. What I am informed about Sida has had a dialogue with Awepa and made sure that the support can be phased out and used as smoothly as possible for programme activities or basic budget support during the transition period in order to be able to move to other donors. In this way, minimal damage is caused to the organization and work of Awepa. Awepa should be given time to seek new donors. I see great value in the Pan-African initiatives for parliamentarians. The Pan-African Parliament, on a proposal from the African Union, will acquire some legislative competence. That is certainly a step in the right direction. As an old MEP, I have been in the European Parliament's parliamentary assembly attached to the Pan-African Parliament, and I have a good understanding of that. But that does not mean that I can go to our authority and say exactly which organisations it will contribute to. However, in the new regional cooperation strategy, we are raising support for democracy as one of the more important issues in the strategy.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-204	Madam President, I would like In this case, Awepa is an example. What is important is that governments have been in charge for 30 years, and thus also felt that cooperation with Awepa International has been valuable. It has been a question of building networks of parliamentarians and thus strengthening the role of parliamentarians and parliaments. We are talking here about support for democracy. I agree that there are many other parts. What is often forgotten is precisely the important role of parliaments as a conflict solver. Well-functioning parliaments are extremely important to be able to meet different groups in society and the interests of different groups and be part of a process. That is why it is extremely important that support for democracy is not forgotten. When one talks in a strategy about protecting democracy, political parties, civil society, good governance, good governance and an independent judiciary, one must not forget the parliaments. Parliaments have a central role to play. It is good when the Pan-African Parliament has a legislative power of decision. Today it has the Parliament of Ealas. It is, of course, an important forerunner. There Sweden has been involved and supported. It is a support that is now ending. Signals are sent out that we from the Swedish side no longer prioritise this type of support. The UNDP is one of the actors. It is of course interesting, Madam President, that Sweden, which has had a long cooperation and built up parliamentarian-to-peer support in this case, chooses to end – or phase out, as the Minister put it. I had hoped that the Minister would say that this was a temporary situation because of refugee commitments and the resulting costs, but that we have the ambition to bridge over and come back. It is, of course, also an important signal to the authorities who listen to, hear, read and interpret the signals sent out by the government and the directives contained in the forthcoming strategy. If the government were to say that this was a temporary situation but that the ambition is that we should come back and that we should be there and support – we do not point out one or the other – parliaments and parliamentarians – to parliamentary cooperation, it is, of course, a signal that is interpreted differently than I understand that the current signals of the government have been interpreted. It has been interpreted as not being an interesting or strategic starting point for cooperation. So I understand that others have interpreted the government's positions. I would like the Minister to be able to make it clear that this is a temporary step but that we have the ambition to be involved and to work as a parliament. They are important for democracy to strengthen and thus also to prevent conflicts in Africa.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-211	Madam President, I would like It is true that because of the costs of receiving refugees in Sweden, we have managed to limit the settlements to a maximum of 30% of the aid. As a result, we have had to give greater priority to aid this year. Among other things, it has fallen back on this strategy, where the previous government has clearly stated that it wants to promote democratic development primarily through anti-corruption. As I said, we have commissioned Sida and the Folke Bernadotte Academy to develop a new strategy that talks about democracy, human rights and gender equality in the instructions. Kerstin Lundgren wants me to express support for parliamentarians. Of course, it is important and essential for democratic development and accountability to have this balance between government and a functioning Parliament. Of course, regional cooperation in Africa is also extremely important. I personally believe that this is an important way forward. But you are still at an early stage, and it is clear that you need support for this type of activity. So we are in complete agreement. On the other hand, Kerstin Lundgren knows that the government should not and cannot go in and point to individual beneficiaries in terms of the strategies that we appoint to our authorities to implement, follow up and check in the most appropriate way in terms of the effectiveness of the support and how much it meets the goals that the government has set for the different strategies. I would like to emphasise once again that human rights and democracy are the single largest sector in Sida's aid – 5.8 billion. So we are the world's largest donor of democratic aid. It's not something we're down-prioritising. Earlier in this House, questions have been asked about the strategy on human rights and democracy and whether the allocation has been reduced in nominal terms. However, I have explained that certain appropriations have been transferred to others. For example, the election observation function has been transferred to the Folke Bernadotte Academy, and the funding of the Human Rights Office in Geneva has been transferred to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' budget line for multilateral organisations. So we have in no way reduced this. To the extent that we have reduced, we have not reduced more than we have done on other appropriations. I can only agree with Kerstin Lundgren's support for the important role of parliamentarians in democracy and accountability and can also agree that regional cooperation is extremely important. I really wish the Pan-African Parliament and the Ecowas counterparts every success. I myself know, with my experience in the European Parliament, how important these regional parliaments can be as more independent voices and less governed by their own individual governments for accountability. Not least with regard to human rights and anti-corruption, I believe that they can play an extremely important role, as the African Union has in Africa today, precisely in this regard.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-218	Madam President, I would like It is good that the Minister is clear about the importance of the role of Parliament. It's hard to control your government. But if you describe democracy and human rights with just these words and do not exemplify by, for example, highlighting and strengthening parliaments as independent actors and as part of conflict prevention and so on, you risk losing them because there are many other strong stakeholders. One of the signals that we often get – I assume that the Minister has also met during his time in the European Parliament – in contacts with other parliamentarians is precisely that they feel that they do not have the means to review and that they do not know – either in terms of aid – and do not have the ability to control where the money goes. One of the important elements for us in building democracy is, of course, that we build it with civil society, with parties, with parliaments and with the institutions that are needed. Madam President, I would like I heard that the Minister indicated that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs had taken over the Geneva office as part of a multilateral organisation. This can also be done in other areas if the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development decide to do so. There are other multilateral organisations that are not associated with the UN. The Minister has, of course, the opportunity to try and see the conditions for continuing to be able to support multilateral organisations working with parliaments in order to strengthen the capacity of parliaments to work there as well. I understand the difficulties that have been encountered in being able to give priority to this year's reduction. But I hope it is a transitional phase and not a final phase.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-223	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate Kerstin Lundgren's commitment to the role of parliamentarians, to the role of parliaments and, not least, to the role of regional and international parliaments in the world. I believe that this is a very important way forward for democratic development, for accountability and for more independent scrutiny of individual governments. There's a deal. On the other hand, I am a little confused about what Kerstin Lundgren was running during the time of the Alliance, because Parliament is not specifically expressed in the priorities of the regional strategy on which Awepa's support is currently dependent. However, anti-corruption has been mentioned as a priority area for the promotion of democracy. We have very broad support in the area of democracy. As I mentioned earlier, the reductions due to the refugee reception settlements this year have not meant that all Swedish support to parliamentarians in Africa has disappeared – far from it. Furthermore, through our EU assistance, we also support the Pan-African Parliament. Hopefully, Awepa will find support. As far as I am concerned, the EU may be willing to go in and do this. The government believes that democracy aid is one of our greatest priorities and will be so. We hope that this continuity will continue. I will not be able to state specifically which organisations should be supported through Sida. However, we still have some agreement here.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-227	Madam President, I would like Karin Enström has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs how she discussed the use of aid money during the visit of the UN ambassadors, whether the costs of the campaign to the UN Security Council can be classified as aid, whether the current regulations were followed in the case of the visit from the UN ambassadors, how the Minister of Foreign Affairs intends to follow up how Sida and Dag Hammarskjöld's Memorial Fund have managed their funds and whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has paid travel and subsistence for other UN ambassadors or other countries' diplomats. The intervention has been handed over to me as Minister of Aid. Karin Enström's question concerns the seminar series developed in collaboration between Dag Hammarskjöld's Memorial Fund and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has been carried out within the framework of the Fund's ordinary activities. The two current seminars included representatives of some of the poorest and most vulnerable countries in the world to discuss climate challenges and Agenda 2030, meet Swedish expertise in climate finance and take part in innovative Swedish environmental initiatives. Dag Hammarskjöld's Memory Fund has the task of promoting security, development and strengthening multilateralism, working through seminars, conferences and networking and receiving its funding precisely for this purpose. The Government Office continuously decides on actions where the poorest and most vulnerable countries are invited to participate in discussions and knowledge-sharing on issues such as climate change, development and other issues related to peace and security. This is part of our aid. This government, like previous governments, has the power to decide on a grant line within the framework of aid intended to finance such activities. More than a hundred different organisations, authorities and research institutes receive grants from this appropriation line. Funding for seminars on policies of high relevance to representatives from some of the world's poorest countries, failing and conflict-affected countries and countries most affected by climate change, thereby strengthening the voice of these countries in the global debate, is in line with the objective of Category 7. Sweden's candidacy for a place in the UN Security Council is based on countries voting for us because we have a good policy. The work with Sweden's candidacy for the UN Security Council is financed through the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' part of the Government Office's administrative appropriation within Category 1 and not through aid funds. This applies both to the work of the secretariat set up at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and to the candidacy-related work of the UN Representation in New York. In the case of the current seminar series, it is about cooperation on development issues between an aid-funded organisation and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The visit has been in line both with the Government Office's regulations and with the focus for which the Dag Hammarskjöld Fund has been granted aid funds. Dag Hammarskjöld's Memorial Fund, which is an international foundation based in Uppsala, is funded by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, through Sida. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs' contribution to Dag Hammarskjöld's Memorial Fund is provided as annual operating support but is linked to the latest three-year cooperation agreement concluded between the Government Office and Dag Hammarskjöld's Memorial Fund in February 2015. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly works with Dag Hammarskjöld's Memorial Fund on a three-year basis. The follow-up of the Government Office's support is done according to the usual procedures for contributions of this kind. This means that Dag Hammarskjöld's Memorial Fund will report annually to Sida and the Government Office how the operations have been conducted and how the financial contributions have been used. Sida and the Government Office then conduct a review of the reporting and have the opportunity to request additional information if necessary.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-231	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Development for his reply, although it was to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that I asked the interpellation and thus the questions. As I wrote in my interpellation, the United Nations Security Council has the highest responsibility for maintaining international peace and security, and of course it matters who is sitting there. Therefore, the Moderates fully support Sweden's candidacy to the Security Council for the period 2017–2018. There are two months left; this summer, 28 June, a secret vote at the UN headquarters in New York will determine which two countries of Sweden, Italy and the Netherlands will have the two temporary seats on the Security Council. We would have liked to have been able to agree within the European Union on a rotational regime and thus on which two EU countries would run in this round, but we did not reach that stage. If we had, we might not have been in this situation. We have long said that the international practice of extensive campaigns needs to be reviewed. They risk becoming both costly and increasing the risk of corruption. However, there is fierce competition for these temporary sites, and there are three countries competing for two seats. Despite the fierce competition, we naturally assume that the Swedish campaign will take place in accordance with our common foreign policy principles. Madam President, I would like When Dagens Nyheter stated in an audit that aid funds went to the government's campaign to the Security Council, in the form of various trips for other countries' UN ambassadors, it shows that the government's work on the campaign needs to be reviewed. The slightest doubt that this would not be right is, of course, important for confidence in Sweden and for the very values we want to pursue, not least in the UN and the Security Council. That is why we on the Foreign Affairs Committee have asked the ministers to come and explain and describe, and that is also why a minister is here today – to clarify. That's good. For some reason, the Red-Green Government has kept the cards close to the chest when it comes to the campaign. There are ambiguities about registration, and the journeys this interpellation is about are an example. Questions can be asked as to why they chose to invite the UN ambassadors for these countries. Were there other persons, knowledgeable in the field, who were present for an invitation but were rejected? The risk of keeping the cards close is that it will be the opposite of the transparency and openness we want to characterise both the UN and other international organisations. It can open the door to misunderstandings and concerns that everything has not been done properly. How does the Minister for Development view Sweden's future work at the UN on increased transparency and, of course, increased efficiency in the Security Council? Another case of ambiguity – and we have asked questions there, not least in the form of written questions – has concerned the costs of the campaign and the countries to which government representatives have travelled, which we have wanted to have an overview of. Yesterday, as I said, we got an accounting, and that's good. However, the budget presented in a particular paper does not show, for example, the travel of the UN ambassadors, and that is why we have asked the questions about what money has been spent on what. We have got an accounting, but I still think it is important that we sort everything out because Sweden should really be the voice against corruption and for greater transparency.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-238	Madam President, I would like In another context, I have put a question to the Minister for Development about the campaign to the Security Council. Yesterday, in the Foreign Affairs Committee, we had the opportunity to have a special conversation with both the Minister for Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the campaign to the Security Council, and we received additional information. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear. From the Center Party we have agreed that Sweden will run for the Security Council and that we will have a campaign that is a low budget campaign – not voting fishing. It should be a campaign that is about transparency and where our track record, i.e. our UN CV, will speak for our cause. It is, of course, from this point of view that we have looked at what has emerged from the government in relation to the Security Council campaign. We have noted that it has been reported on the website for the public part for 2015 but not for 2016. We have also noted that data has now come to light on the fact that aid money, which we clearly lack in terms of refugee settlements and other things, has been used in connection with the Security Council campaign. It does, of course, render a number of questions. The budget presented is one side of the matter, but there are a number of satellite activities that are ongoing and that are not accounted for. Here, Madam President, there is reason for clarity. As far as we are concerned, we are concerned that Parliament, which has the mandate as a parliament to really review the government, should see if what is said is correct. I hope that we will be able to do this, so that we can have a good understanding of the parts that are not now being presented and that they can be examined in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the coming months. We will not be able to do so before the vote in the Security Council. But we'll be able to get a broad basis for really calling the campaign. Madam President, I would like This is important, because it is not every year that this type of activity is carried out. And there are in the global environment quite a lot of comments on how different countries act in these kinds of campaigns. It has been mentioned in the debate that Holland invites ambassadors to Aruba. We obviously invite you to Stockholm. It is, of course, part of a reality that we in Parliament have reason to examine and assess, also for further conclusions on this type of campaign. Madam President, I would like Aid is also about human rights, and one of our conclusions on the campaign for a seat for the Human Rights Council was that our clear voice for human rights was something that others were annoyed with and that did not support us in the final vote. I hope, Madam President, that Sweden's vote has not silenced a seat on the Security Council.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-245	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Enström and Kerstin Lundgren for the questions! I very much welcome your support for Sweden's candidacy for the Security Council. I also welcome the opportunity here in Parliament to answer these questions in public, so that what we talked about yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs can also be followed by the Swedish people and the journalists who have shown interest in this issue. As far as rotation is concerned, it is true that three European countries are now competing. Sweden was the first country to report its interest. We have also made efforts to coordinate within the EU community so that we can avoid this competitive situation. The third country that joined did so very late and has the ambition to become a country that may even be permanently on the Security Council. We certainly have not wished for this situation, which is unfortunate. It would have been better if the EU community had been able to agree on two candidates. When it comes to keeping the cards close to the chest, you can really put it that way. I think that's a more accurate description than trying to hide things. We have now reported the costs, not only for 2015 but for 2014– 2016 until March, to the Foreign Affairs Committee. In total, the cost is around 20 million, of which 10 million is to finance the special offices within the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to work with the campaign business. I want to make it very clear that it is not aid money but grant money. 10 million is the cost of ordinary staff, i.e. external personnel assigned for this, not auxiliary staff. There are 20 million that have been used so far. We welcome all the scrutiny, and there are no cards to be put on the table. We don't have to keep them so close to the chest when the vote is finished. There is no secrecy whatsoever behind this. Why UN ambassadors? The Dag Hammarskjöld Foundation has organised these seminars within the framework of its regular activities. So money has not been given specifically by us to invite the UN ambassadors. The Dag Hammarskjöld Foundation deals with, among other things, UN reform and security policy. Over the past year, the UN has concluded several extremely important agreements such as the Climate Agreement, Agenda 2030 and Financing for Development. These very UN ambassadors from small, conflict-affected and poor countries have been acting as UN actors and negotiating. We have worked very closely with them to achieve success in, for example, the climate agreement, so they were relevant to the Dag Hammarskjöld Foundation's activities. The invitation has taken place in collaboration with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. We have pursued an active policy of cooperating with these countries in order to achieve success in these agreements. Then there is this aid. Aid is not just providing food packages or humanitarian emergency aid to poor people in Africa. Assistance is also conferences, knowledge-sharing, strengthening the capacity of the poorest countries to participate in the international negotiations that are crucial for their future. Governments have always done this. So trying to make it look like taking money from poor countries is wrong.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-252	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that we are having this debate and really agree with the Minister for Development that it is good that we do not have it in committee alone. However, I would perhaps like a little more understanding of the questions we raised long before this was examined by the media. It's not because we don't want this to go well. It is important to show that such a campaign can be carried out and that it, as we all hope, will succeed. But it should be done in an open, transparent and efficient way, because this is how Sweden wants and should operate. Then everything we do, including such a campaign, must be marked by these values. That is also why we have asked the question of what funds have been used for what. It is good that we have been given a justification that it was precisely these people who were invited to the conferences. I am well aware that aid is used for so much more than for emergency aid. It has to, or we won't get any further. There are many different ways of using aid, but there should not even be a suspicion that there is a grey area when it comes to the use of aid funds. Here the government has been clear and said that this is classified as aid, and that is, among other things, what we wanted answers to. As I said, there must be no doubt. We've been asking questions before, but we haven't had very good answers. I think we should be able to demand that, and I hope that we will continue to do so. Why, then, is there this suspicion? Well, as I said, we've been asking written questions and getting pretty sweeping information. We have not wanted information on exactly which countries have promised what, because I do not think that we should have long lists of which countries have said that they should support our candidacy for the UN Security Council and who will vote in different ways. We have also had a discussion about how and by what message this campaign should be conducted. Last autumn we had a fairly long discussion about whether Sweden would be an independent voice or not. We criticized the Ministry for Foreign Affairs for adopting the message Global Communication, Independent Voice – in Swedish: Global Commitment, Independent Voice. We reacted to this because Sweden has the EU as its central platform, and it could be perceived as not taking our EU membership seriously. We were assured that this message would not be used. But only yesterday I saw that the official Twitter account for the UN representation in New York uses this message. If you say that you want broad political support and support and that we should have as common a view on this as possible, but then you do not follow it, there are of course questions. We will continue to review this campaign. The evaluation that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Riksdag can do is not necessary before the vote itself. But no matter how it goes, I think it's good to do it in order not least to draw conclusions as to why things went well or, at worst, not going well. I would have liked to see greater humility and understanding that we wanted the cards we are now talking about further from the chest and out on the table. The Minister for Development is welcome to give an answer.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-265	Madam President, I would like As I said before, I have put a question to the Minister for Development about other actions linked to the fact that the campaign for a seat on the Security Council has been financed by the aid budget. It was when we had the impression that a group of ambassadors had been invited to a conference during the autumn. The answer I received made no mention of anything else. The answer is signed by Isabella Lövin on 13 April. During this time, however, it became apparent that another group of ambassadors had been invited. This is not written in the answer to my question. This is, of course, another signal that makes us feel insecure. Are there any other questions that lie in the hidden? The picture is not quite clear and transparent. I can understand why you do not want to present all the questions publicly. But it is perfectly possible to present to the Foreign Affairs Committee and thereby to the Riksdag under secrecy. We even had meetings with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the three weeks that the information was available, but during these three weeks we were not given any information about what had pre-emergency. That gives us reason to ask questions. One of the issues involved is the role of the campaign office. The campaign office is a key player in the work being done. It has emerged that the campaign office has also played a role in the governance of the aid-financed part. Madam President, I would like Then, of course, even in the light of previous debates, one wonders about the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' governance of aid in this part.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-271	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the largest donors to the UN. We are in fifth or sixth place globally. We are a small country, and we give 1% of our GDP to aid. 11 billion a year goes to the UN and the various UN organisations. It is more than 20 years since Sweden was on the UN Security Council. We think it is reasonable to spend 10 – 20 million, what we have reported so far, from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' Category 1 in order to be able to sit on the UN Security Council. I think it is well spent money for the Swedish people to allow us to sit in the world's only decision-making body in terms of peace and security. After all, wars and conflicts are one of the main reasons why people are poor and suffering. Aid is also an exchange of knowledge. It is pure hypocrisy when some Members of Parliament in their comments in newspapers give the impression that aid is not used for conferences, exchanges of knowledge and the like. In 2014, we held a very successful conference on population issues together with UNFPA in Stockholm and with parliamentarians, which Kerstin Lundgren and I have just discussed. It was hosted by the previous government, and the cost of this one conference was nearly 15 million. It was on aid funds, and I think it was quite right in accordance with the purpose of Category 7: to help people rise out of poverty and make their voice heard. This is therefore not strange, and the Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs knows that very well. As regards the Dag Hammarskjöld Fund's invitation, it was in substance about climate finance and wars and conflicts. Antibiotic resistance and urban planning were discussed. Study visits were made at a water and sewage plant in Södertälje. It was far from luxury hotels in Aruba, as the comparison was just. Sweden is running on the basis of what we are good at and the policy we are pursuing. We have a feminist policy, we are a world leader in environmental technology, we work to prevent conflicts and we are one of the world's largest donors. This is what we bring forward when we meet these countries. It would be stupid if we didn't. And when the Dag Hammarskjöld Foundation invites these UN ambassadors in their capacity as actors in the global negotiations, it would be foolish if we did not take the opportunity to meet them. We met them outside the Dag Hammarskjöld Fund programme, and it was not financed by the aid, I would say. With regard to the independent vote, I would like to say that two EU Member States are sitting as permanent members of the Security Council, but EU coordination is not as obvious as it might sound in the debate. It is therefore important for other EU Member States to sit as temporary members of the Security Council.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-282	Madam President, I would like I did not raise the campaign of an independent vote in order for us to have a debate on whether or not it was right to use this slogan, but it is about what we have actually agreed. Is it right to persevere even though we have agreed otherwise? That's really what I'm after. It is in the light of this and the rest we have talked about that we have been critical and questioning. The feeling that it is not quite clear and that there is something behind that we must not see creates a mistrust that Sweden is not valiant of. Madam President, I would like We do not question the fact that a campaign of this kind, a candidacy, will cost tax money. It is important, however, that there is no confusion whatsoever as to what means have been used and how and for what purpose they have been used. That is the whole issue. It is about trust, and it is about what values we want to be able to pursue in the UN, other international organisations and, as I said, hopefully also in the body that has the highest responsibility for peace and security in the world. There, Sweden, both as a donor and as an active player in global issues, really has something to contribute. I hope the outcome will be that way. Our reasons for asking us questions about this have been questioned in many ways, and it is therefore good that we are discussing these issues in all transparency. We want to be sure that there will be no new surprises now, but that we have this open channel to the Foreign Affairs Committee and Parliament.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-287	Madam President, I would like I can truly assure you that there are no other reasons for the government to want to sit on the UN Security Council than that we want to push for global security and a sustainable future for humanity. That is also why we are one of the world's largest donors to the UN system and one of the world's largest donors. I did not have time to answer Kerstin Lundgren's question as to why we did not mention the second visit to the interpellation response. I answered questions all day after Dagens Nyheter's publication of the so-called disclosure, from all media except Dagens Nyheter who never called. I immediately told TT that two groups had been invited by the Dag Hammarskjöld Foundation. We have nothing to hide. I would like to emphasise that UN ambassadors from the world's poorest countries are not glassy types but have extremely limited possibilities. We have a country like Kiribati, which has a very small population and is a very vulnerable island group in the Pacific. There are a few people who are engaged in international politics at all, and they have been absolutely crucial in getting a good climate agreement in place, through their testimony to the country's vulnerability. Among other things, they took part in one of the trips and got to take part in Swedish water and sewage technology in Södertälje, which can help Kiribati to meet the challenges one has. I myself have visited and seen the enormous challenges of the rise in sea levels and the lack of groundwater. These are the issues we want to pursue in UN – security, climate, feminist foreign policy and global solidarity – nothing else.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-291	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me, on the one hand, whether it is my intention and the Government's intention in the negotiations on the arms directive in the EU to pursue a line that is more restrictive than the one for which the government has been mandated by the Parliament to pursue, and, on the other hand, what responsibility I have if it should prove that media and protocol data on this would be correct. In the negotiations on the arms directive, the government is pursuing the line that we have repeatedly received unanimous support in Parliament. There is no other intention from me or the government. I have full confidence that the officials who negotiate the matter on behalf of Sweden will follow their instructions.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your brief answer. It may not have raised all the issues I had in my interpellation, but these we have the opportunity to develop further now. The EU's review of the Arms Directive and our position here in Sweden are closely followed by 600 000 – 700 000 gun owners in the country, who are concerned that there will be restrictions that mean that you must not retain the weapon you have had and cannot carry out the hunting or sporting activities that you are doing. Therefore, all statements, changes and other things are weighed on a gold scale to see which direction the government and parliament are pushing in on this issue. For this reason, many people read the minutes of the various conventions in the European Union, in this case the Council meetings. It has turned out that the minutes of the meetings may not have been 100% in agreement with the position we have taken in Sweden. For this reason, there is concern in the discussion. Madam President, I would like As far as the documentation is concerned, I have a question. I have taken note of two separate Council minutes. According to them, Sweden has pursued a line that is not fully consistent with its position. According to the protocols, this has been done partly because we have not opposed the proposals that run counter to our approach, for example with regard to the time limit on licences, and partly because we have made our own proposals that may not be in line with the position that Sweden has. One example is the ban on all semi-automatics, which lists the technologies for these machines, which mean that in principle all semi-automatic weapons will be covered. I know that the Minister has stated in the media that the minutes of the Presidency are misleading. I would like the Minister to develop it and talk about what is misleading. My question is: what steps, if any, have been taken after this to avoid misunderstandings about the fact that we have a line here and that there may be something else in the protocols down in the European Union? So my simple question is: is it the Minutes that are correct, or is it the line of the Minister and the Government that is right on this issue? Have any steps been taken to ensure that what is said and the proposals made at meetings are recorded correctly? Are there any more protocols that might be misleading at this point?
i-85dd56d9862008ea-300	Madam President, I would like On the margin, there are errors in the protocols, just as Sten Bergheden says. But it is clear from the protocols that Sweden has not operated such a line as Sten Bergheden expresses. Either Sten Bergheden has not read the records properly or Sten Bergheden is lying. Sweden has not at any time put forward a ban on semi-automatics, but we are pursuing the line that the Swedish Government has established and which has support among all parties in the Swedish parliament.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-302	Madam President, I would like I think it is good that the Minister admits that the Minutes are wrong. My question is this: has the Minister taken any steps towards responsible officials or the Presidency down there to make it more accurate with what is in the minutes? In general, I assume that what is in a protocol must be what has been stated at a meeting. It will be very strange if someone writes protocols that do not match the actual statements and the actual positions we have taken in the European Union. At the same time, I am a little pleased that the Minister is so clearly saying that the Minutes are misleading but that other parts of the Minutes should make clear what has been said. I do not fully share this view, because there is a great deal of ambiguity in this part of the story by entering into a weapons specification which means that all semi-automatic weapons in Sweden are beginning to be called into question. It cannot be our opinion that we should have that position. At least we haven't had this in the Swedish Parliament. My question goes on to say: Have any steps been taken to bring these records into line with what has been said and done at meetings? Has the Minister raised this discussion with the officials, so that they are even more careful to ensure that what they say is understood in such a way that it cannot be misinterpreted? Can we note with this that future protocols will be consistent with what has actually been said and done at the meeting?
i-85dd56d9862008ea-306	Madam President, I would like The answer to Sten Bergheden's question is yes. But I spend my time protecting the interests of Sweden's legitimate arms owners and restricting access to arms for criminals and terrorists. It would probably be wise if Sten Bergheden too had his focus on it, rather than misinterpreting the EU's protocol.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-307	Madam President, I would like The minutes are the only act of these meetings that we have and can examine, to see what has happened. It would be decent to ensure that the Minutes are of such a status that it is possible to follow what has been said and done at a meeting. That is the lesson I have learned in my work. I have been secretaries and other things in different contexts and have then been quite careful that the records should be correct. It is a matter of reducing the concerns of hunters and shooters who follow this closely, so that they get a security in that Sweden runs its line with clarity and that it is also clearly visible in the protocols.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-310	Otherwise, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-311	Madam President, I would like The government has no other line than that supported by the Moderates and Sten Bergheden in the Swedish parliament. It includes standing up for hunting and shooting. But it also includes making it more difficult for terrorists to access weapons. It has been discussed that certain weapons produced for military purposes should be moved to the classification in the EU where weapons are banned. At the margin, that could mean that military carbines were moved there. If so, it is a price we will have to pay for having stricter arms laws in the 28 Member States of the European Union. This is the balance that both I and Sten Bergheden have taken together in the Riksdag and the negotiating mandate that our negotiators have received. But it really moves by the margin. Otherwise, we have no other such plans. No ordinary hunting weapon – whether semi-automatic or not – shall be prohibited. It is my absolute belief that this will also become a reality in the European Union, because the negotiations are moving in a positive direction for Sweden.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-313	Madam President, I would like Olof Lavesson has asked me when I intend to give the go-ahead for a reconstruction of the Royal Opera. The Royal Opera is one of our most important cultural institutions, and as a national stage for opera and ballet, it will be leading and at the highest level in terms of development, renewal, artistic quality and craftsmanship in studios and workshops. This, of course, places great demands on the conditions for the business to reach its full potential. The premises are crucial for the Royal Opera's ability to live up to all aspects of its mission. The design and condition of the building are important for accessibility but also for artistic development. The Opera House in Stockholm has long been in need of renovation. The issue has become increasingly acute, and therefore the National Property Board was also commissioned to work closely with the Royal Opera to produce a preliminary study on the renovation and renovation of the Opera House. The preliminary study submitted in May last year was solid and it was pleasing to announce that an extensive renovation and reconstruction of the opera house can be carried out within the framework of the SEK 2 billion that the Government has set in the assignment to the National Property Board. Such an extensive renovation and renovation that is now planned is the largest one carried out in a building owned by the National Property Board. It requires a fine piece of groundwork, and the matter is therefore being prepared widely within the Government Office. My hope is to be able to come back to the matter as soon as possible.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-316	Madam President, I would like Already in 1782 Gustav III had the first royal opera built at the place where today's opera house is now. The building was demolished more than a hundred years later and was replaced by Axel Anderberg's great opera house in 1898. Almost 120 years ago it happened in Stockholm, which has recently happened in Helsinki, Oslo and Copenhagen: the city was given a new opera house. Since then, little has happened. The operations at the Opera have changed and developed. The extent of seasons has changed. The cut has been extensive. The audience's expectations are different today. Other requirements apply, thankfully, in terms of accessibility and working environment. Today, there is a great need for radical renovation and reconstruction. Despite good ongoing maintenance, ageing systems lead to problems with the working environment, high energy consumption and disruptions for operations. Moreover, not only a renovation but also an extension is necessary. As one of the few opera houses both within and outside Sweden, the Royal Opera today has only one stage. Repetition facilities for the orchestra are missing. Instead, you can bus the musicians to and from Gäddviken in Nacka. In the other direction, the trucks run with theatrics and scenes, as they cannot be stored in the building at Gustav Adolf torg. This is an untenable situation. In connection with the alliance government's budget bill for 2014, the then Minister of Culture Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth announced a reconstruction of the Royal Opera. The Swedish National Property Board was tasked with carrying out a preliminary study for renovation and renovation in close cooperation with Royal Operan AB. A cost framework was set at SEK 2 billion. The assignment was to start from how to create better conditions for artistic activities and increase accessibility for the audience. The background was just how the Opera should be better able to meet the demands of today's practitioners and audiences on a national stage for opera and ballet. Particular attention was paid to the need for ventilation, fire protection and technology, as well as the needs of more modern and accessible public spaces and several spaces for performances and rehearsals. In May, as the Minister of Culture rightly said, the preliminary study was delivered to the Ministry of Culture, where it now seems to have started collecting dust on a shelf. Madam President, I would like In the run-up to today's debate, I had a pious hope that the Minister for Culture would bring a clear message to the House. This is not a new issue. Rather, I believe that there is broad political agreement on the forthcoming renovation and extension, and the basic work is also done. Now we were not told in the Minister of Culture's reply. But she has the chance to give one now in the debate instead.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-323	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Member of Parliament Lavesson, for the question and for your great commitment to the Royal Opera and our cultural heritage as a whole! There has been a clear work plan for several years, just as MEP Lavesson described. D is a process that has been underway, and there is broad political agreement on what the objective of this process is. We are currently at a stage where the feasibility study that has been submitted is being prepared. The work is led by the National Property Board, which owns the building rented by the Royal Opera. But it has been in close cooperation between these two that the preliminary study has been prepared and presented to me. This is the most extensive renovation and renovation planned by the National Property Board. So it is a very big thing for the government and for our whole state. It is not a decision that is rushed forward, but it requires careful deliberations and a broad and deep basis. What we do, what we plan to do, is all about our future. The Government of Bolund is responsible for the Government of the National Property Board. But Minister Bolund and I are of course in constant contact and have a deep discussion about this. It is extremely important that the opera, both the building and the content itself, which is one of the gems of our cultural heritage have the best of conditions.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-329	Madam President, I would like Let me start by telling you how happy I am that we can stand here and debate such an important thing as Swedish performing arts and our fine national scene. Since the last elections, it is no longer as often as it happens. The government seems to be busy defending its entrance reform and fighting for its film policy. I understand that, but it does not necessarily mean that other things have to stand back. The issue of the opera house is much bigger than a question of brick and mortar. I agree with what the Minister of Culture said. It is not just a matter of a building but also a matter of content. But the building is a prerequisite for its content. It is about the artistic activities but also about the audience's experiences, accessibility and participation. As a national scene, the Royal O peran has clearly formulated its mission to be at the highest level in terms of artistic quality, innovation, diversity and craftsmanship in the studio and workshops. It is also tasked to act to make the arts accessible to as large a audience as possible. A prerequisite for this is the future of premises. The Minister for Culture and I must be able to agree that we do not have today. In addition, an extension would enable the opera to further develop its activities for children and young people. In the preliminary study, the Royal Opera particularly points to the possibility of developing a stage dedicated to children and young people, something that most other opera houses have today but which is missing in Stockholm. Such a scene could also create greater opportunities for the innovative art to develop. The preliminary study carried out is solid and deep, and it shows how to meet the needs of operators to address the technical and working environment gaps that exist and how to meet the requirements of development and renewal. In addition, it shows how this can be solved within the cost framework set and how to meet the demands of the urban environment and without compromising cultural historical values. The alternative to a renovation should be a brand new opera house. But then we are talking about completely different amounts and a much larger process. The previous government considered that there was no support to launch such a project. I do not know whether the current procedure makes a different assessment. Madam President, I would like Interpellation debates have the advantage of allowing for a somewhat deeper reasoning than our report debates. You have a little more time at your disposal. I hope that the Minister for Culture will now take the opportunity to develop his view of the new opera house. I do not think it is unreasonable that she should also report on the further process. What's it gonna look like? When will decisions be taken? And when is it expected to put the shovel in the ground? The investigation work is done. The flight plans are on the table. But when will it be executed? As unclear as the Minister for Culture is in his answer when it comes to giving information on dates and timelines, I have to ask some very direct questions. Are we really going to see a renovation? Or are you going to bury this issue at the Department of Culture? Will we see a renovation, the Minister for Culture, and when will it happen?
i-D2bYCvf5Zg2oQNJuBKot38	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lavesson, for the continued discussion! When you represent a government and debate against the opposition, you are happy when there are conflict areas. We have some, and we have met in this House and had our discussions. Then there are areas where there is agreement. I am pleased with the clear statement by Member of Parliament Lavesson for the importance of our cultural heritage, the importance of a royal opera and the importance of a fantastic building, that it remains in the future and that the activities themselves have the best conditions. You need modern technology so that you can continue to be a world-class player and continue to exchange with operas and ballets from around the world. I am pleased, and it bodes well for the future that this deep knowledge and insight exist. However, Member of Parliament Lavesson also wants me to stand here and promise dates and time-fixing processes when there is a Rules of Procedure that we follow. I can only stress once again that we are following the order that exists. We are still within the time frame available, but this is an enormous decision. The day I tell you that we are getting started and making the final decision for this great work to start, it will also be followed. I do not want to stand here and say one thing and then come back and say: No, we have to postpone it for a month or six months. I will return shortly. Member of Parliament Lavesson need not worry that the government as a whole and especially I as Minister of Culture do not understand the importance of our Royal Opera, both of the building and of the content, and that the best of the conditions are required to be able to work with all the material available and the built-up knowledge but also to work for renewal.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-340	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Culture keeps coming back to the debate on what a great project this is – the biggest ever – and what complex process it is about. Of course it is. This is not something that is just being careless. Anyone who follows the local urban planning debate in Stockholm also knows how many opinions there are and how sensitive it is when you intervene in the urban environment. However, the Royal Opera is not a Stockholm affair, but an apartment for the whole of Sweden. It is our national scene, and it must be given reasonable conditions. Yes, renovation and extension is a long process. It is about design, detailed plans and building permits and it is about cultural memories and the examination of cultural environmental interests. Only the construction time itself is estimated at just over three years, and then the business must move out of the house. D is it more important that the flight plan is on the table and that someone dares to push the start button. The timetable already exists. It is presented and is included in the preliminary study. It shows that renovation could start in the summer of 2020 and that a new year could be opened in 2024. Then Sweden could get a national scene for opera and ballet worthy of the name. That was the answer I was both hoping for and believing that the Minister of Culture would give today. I note that this is not the case and regret it. Maybe she didn't get that far in the preliminary study, because it's pretty far behind. But I can tell you about p. 31. There is a very clear roadmap. Unfortunately, the Minister for Culture and the Government have made sure that the first step has already been delayed, i.e. the launch button decision. It is not a matter of months or six months; it is a matter of a whole year soon having passed since the pre-study was submitted. But it was time to repair and arrange. Now take this chance, culturalist! A decision cannot be taken on the process we are debating. Make the necessary decisions so that Sweden can finally have a functioning national scene for opera and ballet.
i-85dd56d9862008ea-347	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Member of Parliament Lavesson! A decision will come shortly. It's a solid process. It is about SEK 2 billion from Swedish taxpayers, and that money will be invested in our time for our future. The government and I have great and high ambitions with Swedish cultural policy. We have already seen and will continue to ensure that there is more money for culture and that more people take part in culture wherever they live in our country. Having strong institutions is a prerequisite for achieving this. We need to invest in breadth and professionalism, because it is also a prerequisite for reaching out to the free groups and cultural practitioners who can be inspired, have exchanges, get skills development and opportunities for careers through this collaboration with both breadth and excellence. The Royal Opera is just as Lavesson says one of our two national scenes, and they have an extensive mission. They need good conditions and good foresight in order to be able to plan their operations. That is why this is a decision that needs to be made and a response that needs to be given. I repeat: I will return, hopefully shortly. The Royal Opera should have the best of conditions. The beautiful house, this beautiful building, which is like a dream for anyone who walks in there or just moves nearby will hopefully be able to stand there forever. We need to do something soon, because it is in great need of renovation. I look forward to further discussions on the bright future of the Royal Opera.
