i-196d2d9734bc6729-1	Madam President, I would like As chairman of the Parliament's Constitutional Committee, I would like to start this debate by stating that the KU is the committee entrusted with the care of our constitutions, including the human and civil liberties established there. I would therefore like to start by drawing attention to the attack on the values of our society that took place in Orlando, Florida, yesterday. The review of the government's work that the KU has carried out, and which we are now going to debate, is a phenomenon that we in this House see as a self-evident, almost routine, part of our Swedish democratic social system and as a natural outflow of democratic principles of openness and accountability. The idea of a government that has the confidence of Parliament and a parliament elected by the people is fundamental to the democracy that is ours. Other basic democratic principles are the right to speak and the duty to allow others to speak, the right to have a religion but also to renounce, the right to their lives and their freedom. Together, such core values build a foundation of values for our state and society that we can gather around, no matter what our views on other issues of religion and philosophy, politics and culture. At the same time, we know that there are people in our country and elsewhere who do not accept this foundation of values, who do not accept the principles of democracy and freedom, but who, on the contrary, are prepared to allow the senseless violence to ravage our society and our way of life. The latest example of this was seen yesterday in Orlando, Florida. It seems increasingly clear that the mass murder that struck Orlando was an Islamic-inspired act of terror – this time not directed at random people who happened to be in a public place but specifically targeted at LGBT people. It thus reminds us that the militant Islamists not only hate the West and everything it stands for by freedom, democracy and religious diversity, but also particularly hate LGBT people and their lifestyle. In their world there is no place for tolerance; in their world one submits or perishes. When I have spoken about Swedish values recently, I have highlighted in particular that cultural or religiously motivated oppression of honour or oppression of women can never be accepted. The act of terrorism in Orlando demonstrates the need to highlight homophobia more clearly in the same context. Those killed in Orlando were not attacked for what individuals they were, but because they belonged to a certain group and lived in a particular country. Sweden is a country that has come a long way in protecting the human rights of LGBT people, but we must continue to stand up for the values on which our society is based and challenge those who propagate intolerance and oppression. Therefore, let the grief of the lost lives help to give strength to the struggle for our democratic values and our faith in the equal value of all human beings.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-8	Let me now turn to comment on the review of the government carried out by the Constitutional Committee. And I apologise, Madam President, if I will exceed the speaking time somewhat. For over 200 years, the Constitutional Committee has examined that the government and its members have complied with the constitutions and other laws and regulations governing government work. KU's investigation is formal. It is not a question of whether a particular measure is politically desirable or not, but of whether the rules in force have been complied with when the decision was taken or the measure was taken. Madam President, I would like I would like to inform you that this year, too, the Constitutional Committee has examined a number of complaints against the Government and has compiled its observations in a report which is now presented to the House. This year's review has covered 48 notifications. It has been said that there are exceptionally many notifications, but that description should possibly be slightly nuanced. Over the last 20 years, the number of notifications has varied between about 20 and about 40 per year. In 2005, the number of notifications was also 48, and also in 2006, 2007 and 2008 more than 40 notifications were received. These 48 notifications have become 43 cases in the KU. Two notifications have been postponed by next year and four notifications have been merged into two cases, as the same events gave rise to two notifications on a couple of occasions. Finally, two notifications are dealt with in the same case, as they raise the same issue of principle. Of these 48 notifications, 43 concern the current government, while four concern the former government and one concern both governments. Over the years, there has been a regular debate on the alleged politicisation of the KU. Some years ago, the disagreements in the committee have been great and have led to a number of positions on which the parties were unable to agree. Last year's KU review was historic, because the KU agreed across all party and block borders about its conclusions. There were two reservations from one party, but in other matters everyone was in complete agreement. The alliance parties and government parties were able to agree on all issues. So united had the KU not been in the last 20 years, and I went through overall positions another ten years back, so I can say with some certainty that the KU had not been so united in a spring review for 30 years. I am therefore pleased and proud, Madam President, to be able to inform the House that the KU has succeeded again. Even this year, the KU has been able to agree on its positions across party and block borders on a scale that is unique, apart from last year's report. Once again, the government parties and the alliance parties agree on all positions. All parties agree on all cases where critical remarks are made. There are some reservations from the V and SD respectively that these parties would have liked to go further in the criticism of some issues, but it does not take away the picture that the KU has succeeded in putting legal and constitutional principles before narrow party politics. It is of great value that the KU has been able to agree, and it is clear that this consensus has been appreciated by many in the general debate. I would therefore like to express my warm thanks, as chairman of the Constitutional Committee, to all the members of the Committee for achieving this consensus. In particular, I address the Vice-President of the Committee, Björn von Sydow, who has contributed significantly to the constructive spirit of the committee's work. I would also like to thank the excellent secretariat of the Constitutional Committee, headed by Head of Office Peder Nielsen. The chancellery is an invaluable help for the committee, not least in arriving at positions that express the views of the committee in the nuanced manner required to achieve agreement. Having said that, let me make some further reflections. When, after extensive work and many hours of discussion, we in the KU have agreed on our positions, our texts, it is important that we also engage in the care of our agreements. By that I mean that we, on the part of all parties, should be nuanced in our descriptions of what these positions mean. The opposition parties have a responsibility not to inflate small mistakes to major disasters, and the government parties have a responsibility not to detract from what is clear criticism. One issue that has gained some significance in the aftermath of both last year's and the year's review is the use of the word Let me therefore remind you that this issue was addressed in the report Constitutional Control Functions, published by the KU in 2009. The report was the result of discussions in a working group within the KU with representatives from all parties. One of the questions was whether the KU should use firm expressions or a rating scale to indicate criticism of different strengths, such as the Government deserves criticism, deserves some criticism, deserves serious criticism, cannot escape criticism and so on. The answer was no. On the contrary, the KU took the view that there would not be firm expressions but that any assessment would speak for itself. It provides the opportunity for Members to agree on assessments that involve critical assessments of something that has occurred in government work. The idea is to allow what is said to speak for the seriousness of a committee remark. The KU thus describes what happened and why it was wrong, but it does not state on a scale how wrong the government has acted. It was considered that a system of firm grades could make it more difficult to reach agreement in committee, and that it was more important that the KU made widely-based statements that could provide guidance for the future than that it became quite clear just how critical the KU was to a particular minister. It states in the report that there is no prohibition on using the word and criticism, but at the same time that statement shows that the use of the word and criticism is not a necessary precondition for expressing critical opinions. Critical judgments and remarks about errors and shortcomings can thus be expressed in different ways, with or without the word. If it is argued that the KU merely makes critical remarks in cases where the word is used, it is therefore in violation of what was agreed by the KU in 2009. Of course, there can sometimes be discussions about how KU's positions should actually be interpreted. How critical is the KU in a particular case? Does a certain minister get what is in the media called a dot or not? What I would like to point out here today is that it is important in this discussion that we KU Members have a fundamental consensus on how to look at the way the KU is expressing themselves, even if there is disagreement on the interpretation of an individual case. Let me also comment on another point made in relation to this year's review, namely that this year there is no case of the same importance as the Saudi case in 2013 or the Nuon case in 2014. It is always difficult to refer to different cases because they differ in many ways. However, if you are going to compare and try to rank cases from a KU perspective, my starting point is that it is the constitutional seriousness and relevance of the cases that should be crucial. Both the Saudi case and the Nuon case were much more noticed in the media than any of the cases in this year's review. The Saudi case had great political explosive power because it was about defence equipment and also about Sweden's cooperation with a very controversial country. The Nuon case had great political explosive power because it concerned very large values. What at the time was thought to be a good deal had e, due to falling energy prices, then proved to lead to depreciation at Vattenfall of tens of billions of SEK. However, the Saudi case proved to be constitutionally much less interesting than first thought. The KU unanimously concluded that there was no support to claim that the government had been involved in or approved the formation of the so-called front company that was the focus of the controversy. So the government was absolved of what was the main charge. Instead, the government was criticized by a disunited KU because the government had not followed and directed FOI sufficiently closely over a certain period of time. The minority of the KU, to which I heard at the time, believed that the government had in fact governed and followed FOI sufficiently well, and that the problem was that individual officials at a lower level had acted self-violently. As regards Nuon, KU agreed that the Ministry of Industry had committed a formal procedural error by not obtaining proper approval from the Ministry of Finance's budget department. These two cases can be compared with one case in this year's review: the involvement of the Minister for Infrastructure and the Ministry of Industry in the decision of the Finnish Transport Administration on operating aid to airports. We will come back to that in detail later, but the matter is that the Minister for Infrastructure considered that the handling of airport grants by the Finnish Transport Administration took too long. The Ministry of Industry's officials contacted the Finnish Transport Administration and presented this. The Finnish Transport Agency took this as a strong request from the Ministry for the divisible payment of the grants and therefore paid out the money at least one month before the case handling was completed and in two cases in direct s trid with EU state aid rules. The decision on airport grants involves the exercise of public authority over individuals. In the form of government there is an absolute ban on ministerial government, i.e. interference in matters relating to the exercise of authority against individuals. This, as I see it, is one of the most serious cases of ministerial government that we have seen in the KU in many years. It is, as I said, a year to rank different cases. However, my view is that the airport case contains more serious and clearer deviations from the government's constitutional framework than the Saudi case and the Nuon case, although the latter two were much more prominent in the general debate. In this year's review, the KU makes critical remarks in quite a few cases. As I said, the KU has no rating scale, but I would still like to try to group the cases in which the KU makes comments based on a three-stage step model. On the top step are matters where the KU directly invokes the form of government and believes that the government's actions conflict with the form of government or its purpose. This is a matter in which the Government should have consulted the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs on the termination of the notorious Saudi Agreement. This is what I just mentioned – operating aid for airports. It is about the Swedish Maritime Administration buying helicopters before the Riksdag had made a budget decision and that the government should have kept track of it. There are several cases of the independence of the courts and the authorities. There are also two cases where the EU Board's position has not been fulfilled or respected. They may be borderline because the obligation to consult is regulated in the form of government but is specified in the parliamentary order. It can therefore be discussed whether this is directly contrary to the Constitution, but it is in any case contrary to the order laid down in the Parliamentary Order. On the middle step are matters where there has been an error, but where it is not a direct conflict with the form of government, but a conflict with other norms or with the practices of the KU. It is a question of a minister who made a false statement about the meaning of the amendments to the directives to the Bromma investigation, if we may call it that. It is about the Government should have been clearer in its information to Parliament about the aid budget and that the information should have been clearer about what the Deputy Prime Minister's position really meant. It is about the fact that the Minister of Finance's statements about Volkswagen's environmental fraud could give a false picture of the course of events. These are the statements by the Foreign Minister, who have obviously been misunderstood in a certain context. It is a question of the government handling certain contacts during the refugee crisis. It is therefore a matter of pointing out shortcomings, but without direct conflict with the form of government. On the bottom step there are formal procedural errors and administrative problems. We point to a case of lack of record keeping and an EU case where so-called annotations were less detailed than the rules prescribe and in one case were missing. We also have a case of slow processing of a decision on release of documents. So I mean that one can argue that there are different types of criticism, and they can be expressed in many different ways. I am pleased that the KU has been able to agree on these various descriptions and remarks. In these different cases, the KU provides guidance on how good government work should be carried out. Hopefully, the government and the Government Office will take on board the committee's comments and take steps to improve the work. With this, Madam President, the KU submits its review report to Parliament.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-35	Madam President, I would like The opinion of the Socialist parliamentary group is that it is very valuable to reach agreement between the parties that carry the government power in Sweden. It concerns the question of how government power is exercised, i.e. the administration of government matters and the performance of the duties of the ministers of state. The government rules the kingdom, it says at the beginning of the form of government. It is a strong and general assessment – a standard in the form of government. There are two essential balance or control instruments. We have the Law Council, which examines the government's proposed proposal in form, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, in substance in the light of the rest of the legal system. We have the Constitutional Committee, which examines the affairs of government and government matters afterwards. The main point here is to take shape. Sometimes, however, things get in the way, and this is rarely what the Constitution asks for. Autumn review has an administrative character. The spring review is also partly administrative, and sometimes issues can arise in both. Nevertheless, it is a constitutional assessment of the government that the Constitutional Committee has to carry out. It is the ambition of our parliamentary group to have a consensus, and we hope that we will be able to continue with it during our term of office and perhaps in this way create a practice. However, as a result, our assessments sometimes either become more nuanced or contain more words than might otherwise have been necessary. But it is a price that I think you have to be prepared to pay. The words should not be obscured, but it should be possible to debate and understand each other. Madam President, I would like The Swedish system of government is tested every time after the voters have passed the ruling on how the Riksdag is to be assembled, and that is what we have to take care of. Our assessment is that perhaps the most important test to which the government has been subjected in the governance of the country is the refugee crisis and immigration. Here has been an increase for several years, from 2013 or 2014 I want to remember, but especially in 2015. In our review, despite the great effort of the entire social organisation, we have highlighted surprisingly few shortcomings in governance and control. Essentially, the work of the government and the authorities has worked well on what the Constitutional Committee has to examine. There are points that I myself value very much, namely the need to keep notes of memory or, at least, to log in on crisis management. There is one thing that I hope the Government Office will take on board. Questions about the government's relations with the Riksdag are also important. Here is the formal question of how bill 2015/ 16:67 on increased security, which required identity control, emerged. This included the handling of referrals, legislative referrals and the efforts of the Riksdag – especially the Committee on Justice, but also the Committee on Transport, I would like to remember – in order to carry out a sufficiently deep consultation process. On the whole, it turned out that the government's interaction with the Riksdag in this difficult matter has also worked on the formal points. I would also like to emphasise that, during this time, extensive cooperation between most of Parliament's parties on how refugee policy should be shaped, in the light of the fact that there were about 10 000 individuals who applied for asylum every week. In our opinion, this is the most important test a Swedish government has been subjected to for a long time, and we look forward to future evaluations. Nevertheless, it seems that preparations and crisis management were well planned and that, consequently, the efforts could also be carried out relatively well. Madam President, I would like One can of course, as our President did, group notifications and handling into different categories. We would find it interesting to discuss this further. In this way, we could enable further discussions in committee and in this House, as well as with the media and the public, on what our views stand for and how they should be compared to each other. If you start from the bottom, you can note that we have received a lot of reports. It can be noted that several of them, perhaps just under thirty, do not really make any comment on the part of the committee. There are also a number who share an opinion, advise or assess practices. There are some administrative shortcomings. It may not seem so important, but in relation to what is related to the Freedom of the Press Regulation, it is undoubtedly a matter of case management on a constitutional basis: the principle of public access. There are also some cases in which we use the concept of critical work explicitly. It is then that the conduct of a minister's duties is incompatible with the wording of the form of government, I would like to put it that way. This applies to the matters we have had to examine regarding the Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Maritime Administration, as well as an EU-related matter. We believe that we should be able to use different gradings very well. This is how directly I tend to say that something that is important for a possible scale is if there has been a course of action that is doubtful in relation to the stated provisions of our constitutions. Madam President, I would like I hope that by next year we will be able to succeed in our efforts to reach agreement between the government-supporting parties in particular. I also hope that we can move forward by clearly agreeing on what reincarnations stand for. In addition, I would like to say that it would be useful if we could question and warn in our parliamentary groups about some of the KU notifications we receive. Of course, every Member has a clear right to lodge KU notifications, but good advice from members of the KU may be of value internally.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-50	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is certainly one of the biggest debates of the parliamentary year and, in my view, also one of the most important ones. As you will be aware, the Constitutional Committee is also, in the long run, the Swedish people's power of control vis-à-vis the government. We have a long history, as some have already mentioned. Our existence goes back over 200 years. I venture to guess that we are Parliament's most famous committee, at least in the sense that the vast majority know that we exist. On the other hand, Madam President, I am not so sure that so many outside this House know exactly what we are doing in the Constitutional Committee. If, as we are in here today, we were to leave our desks and offices for a while and head out to the city to ask those we meet about what their image is of us in the Constitutional Committee, most would probably admit that they knew about us. A few might even know of one or more of us sitting on this committee. Many had probably also known that our main task is to review the government. The majority would probably have agreed with the statement that the Constitutional Committee is a little too toothless, that we are a bit boring and old-fashioned. My hope is that together, through today's debate among other things, we will be able to improve people's knowledge of us and what our task really is, but also contribute to people's being less toothless and political. Once the Constitutional Committee puts its foot down and takes a stand, when the Constitutional Committee points its whole hand, when the Constitutional Committee says what is right and what is wrong – it creates a practice. It creates a framework and clarity that current and future governments have to deal with. Our task, however, is, in my view, far greater than merely criticising the government's formal handling of various issues. Even more important is to coach and help the government by telling how it can get better, so that it does not make the same mistakes over and over again. We simply help it to learn from the mistakes it has made in the past. It is only then that we can really contribute to improvement. For me, this is, in fact, our most important task. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. In politics, of course, we do not agree on all issues, and it is usually the very issues in which we differ that receive the most attention, simply because there is a clear dividing line. The fact that we disagree on substance politics is a natural part of political life, and if we would all be in complete agreement all along, the political debate would probably have been rather boring. Our debates here and in society outside would be very uninteresting if we were always in agreement. However, the Constitutional Committee is not like everything else in politics. It is true that we in this committee are also politicians. Of course, it is true that we are all, in some sense, looking after our political interests. But it is also true that we are striving to reach a consensus, to reach agreement at the end of the day. Even if our meetings take place behind closed doors, I think I have the courage to tell you one thing that is listening today. It is that negotiations behind these doors have nevertheless been constructive and that everyone's views, regardless of political party, have been treated respectfully. Maybe our work isn't perfect. However, we are, I mean, in some sense examples of political maturity, as we can discuss and evaluate our views together on what they are really about, which, in my experience, is not always the case outside the Constitutional Committee. In some cases, however, the Constitutional Committee is also involved in reaching a complete agreement, and in this year's major review report, the Swedish Democrats have some reservations that I and my committee colleague will discuss later today in detail. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by thanking all my committee colleagues for their constructive work. I would also like to take the opportunity to be the first to wish you all a happy summer.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-63	Madam President, I would like We have come to one of Parliament's true summer signs, namely the submission of this year's review report from the Constitutional Committee to Parliament. As many people have been into it, it's a very diger lunta that we're handing over. There are many hours of intensive work behind the fact that in the vast majority of cases the KU submits unanimous writings. It is also true, as many people have said, that the government parties and the alliance parties are in complete agreement throughout the report. That is something that many of us and I too are very proud of. But with that said, there are also a lot of writings where we do not at all agree if what is written is so very serious or not. That may still have to be the case. There is agreement in the texts, although hopefully we agree on the assessments in most of the cases. Last year, when we had the debate, the bottom line was that there were a lot of scrutiny cases. That was 30 errands. But there may not have been that many, since it was still the first year of a new government. This year there are 48 cases, 3 of which concern the government's crisis management at the end of last year in relation to migration. In this matter alone, we have received something that is approaching a half-metre of documents from the government as a basis. These documents have been well compiled by our eminent office in about 100 pages of this year's report, which has a total of over 500 pages. It is summed up by the fact that the government has, in general, managed its crisis management. There are a lot of points of view and rather long texts in our assessments. The absolute majority is precisely that the government has behaved, or that the committee in any case has nothing to object to, or that there is no formal objection to, the handling of the government. There are a number of comments and comments of an audit nature, which I assess. These are points about being able to communicate better and so on. Then there are cases where we from the KU have somewhat more bitter comments. This is particularly the case with individual ministers who have commented on unrefined judgments or the exercise of authority. Here we point out one of the important points that politics does not engage in the decision-making process, but that there is clear autonomy for the courts. In many of the cases, we also show that we understand that there is a media interest. But we say that, despite this, we should refrain from commenting in legal proceedings, as our system should have total independence for the judicial system. In three cases, we use the wording and cannot escape criticism, which, in this report, must nevertheless be seen as the wording that is the sharpest. This applies partly to Anders Ygeman for his statement on Frontex, which was not in line with the mandate established by the EU Board, and partly to Anna Johansson for handling when the Swedish Transport Administration had to pay out money to airports and partly to the former Minister for Infrastructure Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd for the high-profile handling when the Swedish Maritime Administration bought helicopters before the Riksdag decided on the budget. I will come back to the last two of these matters in particular later in the debate on certain issues under the heading There have also been a large number of notifications which affect institutions to a greater extent than individual ministers. This has perhaps been most apparent in the case of the large number of notifications in the EU area. For example, the issues highlighted there have concerned the members of the EU Board and their ability to keep up with and understand the basis of meetings where they have had a very short time to prepare. Sometimes they can get material in French, and it has not always been clear which material has been used. In connection with this review, the KU has therefore agreed that it would be useful to conduct a parliamentary inquiry to review work on EU issues in Parliament. A related issue involving institutions is about when the government convenes the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. That was an issue that we in the KU looked at in particular last autumn during the administrative review. We noted at the time that it looked like the Foreign Affairs Board had been called up a little fewer times since Sweden joined the EU and that many of the eur opeic issues were instead raised by the EU Board. In this year's spring review, we have three matters concerning the government's summoning of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. It has not been easy to judge when the government should make use of this very special body in which the king is present and one can impose very strict secrecy on those called up. However, we have made an attempt in these three cases, which are about when the government broke the agreement with Saudi Arabia, when the government gave support to France after the terrorist attacks and when the government concluded the host country agreement in 2014. These writings have indeed been weighing the words on a gold scale, and they have not been quite simple. Finally, I would really like to thank the entire Constitutional Committee for a very comprehensive and constructive work. I would like to extend my special thanks to our President, Andreas Norlén, and Vice-President Björn von Sydow, and also thank you very much to our exceptionally talented and competent office led by Peder Nielsen, who has had to work exceptionally hard during this spring.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-73	Madam President, I would like For this year's review, the Constitutional Committee has received a record number of complaints from members of parliament against the government and its ministers. The interest in reporting has been great, probably because last year's review led to criticism in various forms in a large number of cases. I then called it a beginner's error, because it was then that one of Prime Minister Löfven's newly formed government was examined. What we can now see is that the number of cases that led to some kind of criticism by the government this year has not decreased. Instead, it is an increase to 48 cases notified – a tight record. The KU has become almost entirely united on which matters the government and the minister deserve criticism for their handling. It is, of course, good for the confidence of the Constitutional Committee as a factual and credible reviewer of the government. I would like to highlight the efforts made by our President, Andreas Norlén, and our Vice-President, Björn von Sydow, to achieve this consensus and the confidence it naturally gives to the KU's scrutiny. That was something that did not exist during the last parliamentary term, when I was also on the Constitutional Committee. We then reviewed the arms cooperation with Saudi Arabia and Vattenfall's purchase of Nuon. Then it became more a political and not a constitutional review, with different views on what has happened and different views on what conclusions could be drawn. A v the 48 notifications this year relate to 4 the former government Reinfeldt. One of them has also led to criticism. I'll get back to that. Both the current Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson and the former, Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, receive criticism from KU. As I see it, the criticism directed at Anna Johansson is the most serious. She has, through one of her political officials in the department, ordered two other officials in the department to contact the Finnish Transport Administration to ensure that there were payments of state aid to all airports, and that would happen immediately. It was a clear case of ministerial government that also led to incorrect payments of state aid. Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd is criticised for not having had sufficient control over the Swedish Maritime Administration's purchase of helicopters. The agreement entered into by the Swedish Maritime Administration lacked a clause that the purchase required a parliamentary decision. Several of these criticisms relate to statements made by the Council of State in relation to court decisions which have not yet gained legal force. Minister of the Interior Ygeman and Minister of Health Wikström receive criticism for such statements. The Minister for the Interior's statement on a prosecutor's decision on grounds of detention is also criticised, as are his statements on EU border controls. In this way, Minister Ygeman this year becomes the most criticized Minister of State by the KU in terms of the number of cases that the criticism covers. The fact that the Minister of the Interior on television after our press conference on Tuesday about the review promised to be more cautious in the future when it comes to statements on unrefined judgments is good for the independence of the courts. It's important that he keeps that promise.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-83	Madam President, I would like As several have touched on before, we have this year unusually many notifications to handle. This could indicate that a government has been misbehaved. It could also indicate that we have unusually zealous MPs or that we may have someone who has chosen to look a little closer into a specific area. Many notifications do not automatically mean that there have been more mistakes. We can see that there have been a great many notifications concerning, for example, the work of the EU Board and questions and the way in which ministers respond to the directives and communications received from the EU Board. It's been like a small cluster. We have almost had an extra autumn review with regard to the EU Board. There is some Member who may have a particular interest in it, and there have been some extra notifications. That's what's so good about our scrutiny matters: whoever wants to, all our members of the Riksdag, have the right to report what you think needs to be examined extra. We can therefore interpret this as having had exceptionally good members of parliament who have taken their responsibility to review the government very seriously. It is a different interpretation from the fact that it would be a particularly bad government. I, who belong to a party that has not been in government, do not need to take a stand and defend mine, but can only say that there are many complaints. We in the Left Party share the view of the other parties in almost all matters. We have two reservations, and I will touch on them a little bit later. In this speech, I will say a few horizontal things about other parts of this. Something that almost always recurs in our reviews is record keeping, documentation and handling of the disclosure of documents. That's the way it is now. For example, there have been shortcomings in the records in the Ministry of Education. Several other parts also come back. It is an important task to manage records and documentation – documentation so that we can review afterwards, record keeping so that you can actually know what documents exist. It's not much worth being able to get documents if you don't know they exist. It is very important that we continue to look at it, because there are things that come back almost no matter what it is that has been notified. It shows up in our reviews, and that's very good, because it's also the result. We know that the government is working extra hard on these issues, and the previous government already did. You look at how to manage your documentation; these are important parts. We have had several complaints where there have also been quite serious criticisms about the Ministry of Industry and the contacts of the responsible ministers with the relevant authorities. It's about the Swedish Maritime Administration and the Swedish Transport Administration. A minister from the former government, Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, and Anna Johansson from this government cannot escape criticism. Even in the Nuon case, which has also been involved in the debate and which concerns the previous government, the Ministry of Industry was responsible. It could be interpreted as having problems with how the Ministry of Industry generally manages the management and communication with its authorities. It is not the first time that different views have been expressed on whether there has been direct governance or whether there have only been information meetings and so on when there have been contacts between the government and the authorities. We should therefore consider whether we should look at the governance of authorities in this department or something else. If so, we will get back to you. We have a section that contains quite a lot of criticism of, among other things, Minister Anders Ygeman's statements in the media. It is serious to speak on the evaluation of evidence and judgments before they have become final, and it is good that we have been able to agree on this. It is also good that we have said that the government can act politically. Agreements have to be made between parties. The parties in the government may also make agreements with other parties. I am thinking, for example, of the December agreement that we have been looking at. It is also a good thing to have a say in the general political debate, but it is very important that you also feel the rawness: when is it that you speak as a minister and risk steering, and when is it a political debate that you participate in? It is clear here that, at times, Ygeman has trodden a little wrong and has spoken out on court rulings in a way that is not appropriate, especially if you have the job of Minister for the Interior. It is good that the Minister has also seen this and, as I understand it, also agrees with us on the criticism we have made. I will come back in a few sections later with more specific comments on these matters.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-98	Madam President, I would like Once is not once, twice is a habit. Now we have managed to get a unanimous committee report, in which we agree on our criticisms, for the second time. Perhaps we have thereby begun a habit. Perhaps here we have begun to establish a practice for how the KU will work in the future and really make an effort to come to an agreement in the review report we write every spring. I think it is very important that we can continue to work in this way in the KU this term of office and preferably also in future terms of office. It strengthens the role of the Constitutional Committee in Swedish democracy, and it is an important part of our democracy. I do not think that many people understand the important role that agreements play in Swedish politics. I certainly did not do it before I entered the Constitutional Committee, where I have been working for two years now. It has been noted that politicians are making deals, but many do not realise how much at a detailed level that is actually just agreements, practices, as we call it. It is a handshake, an agreement, but not just between two people sitting there on an individual occasion, but the agreement also lives on when the politicians have been replaced. In the Constitutional Committee, there is great respect for previous agreements and decisions. Even things that you yourself did not support are respected even years later. This is worth paying attention. It is good that the KU is now able to do this in broad agreement. This makes the KU stronger when it comes to how the parliament and government should work together in Swedish democracy. I understand that our report is not a kiosk roller politically. That's not something the voters get started on. In this way, it is, of course, an ungrateful job to do this. As an opposition, of course, it is purely opinion-wise more tempting to strike, but one must try to stay, even if we all fall there from time to time. It is not a kiosk roller in terms of choice to work in this way. I was in Hovmantorp about a year ago when people noticed that it was 100 years since Karl Staaff had been there. I talked about the KU at the time and was very enthusiastic about how nice it worked, but there were probably not so many there who shared my enthusiasm. I've told you this, and I've put it on paper. If future generations read it, they'll have to. The work in KU is not done by itself. I think that all parties and all Members and substitutes have contributed to the KU being able to work in this way. Of course, the greatest credit is due to those who lead the work, our President Andreas Norlén, our Vice-President Björn von Sydow and our Head of Office Peder Nielsen. When you look at work from outside, you can easily get the impression that only politicians get along. That, of course, is the case. It is we who are making the decision here today. But without the office's work, that would of course not be possible. The chancellor often manages to achieve a fine balance in what we do. When we have been arguing about something for a few weeks, we say: Can the office write something up on this basis? Then we walk away, and to the next meeting comes something from the office that is good and shows about the compromise we had in mind. There is hard work behind all this. I thank the whole committee and the secretariat very much!
i-196d2d9734bc6729-105	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity, not to question the honour of Mathias Sundin, but rather to express warm thanks to Mathias Sundin for his two years in the Constitutional Committee. We have learned today that he will leave the committee to become the spokesperson of the Liberals' tax policy. The rest of us find that priority somewhat difficult to understand, but we would nevertheless like to express our warm thanks from the whole committee for Mathias' constructive and important contribution to the work of the Constitutional Committee. It is a great joy to have cooperated with him. We look forward to having contact in the future. Thank you!
i-196d2d9734bc6729-106	Madam President, I would like I had been looking forward to perhaps debating the monarchy with Andreas Norlén, but we will take it in another debate. I thank Andreas Norlén very much for his words. Thank you, the whole committee.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-108	Madam President, I would like Live the monarchy! Thank you, Mathias Sundin!
i-196d2d9734bc6729-109	Madam President, I would like One of the previous speakers mentioned that we in the Constitutional Committee are known but perhaps not quite what we are known for. Let me say that, among other things, these reports are what the Constitutional Committee has been struggling with this spring. We had this week's seven-hour meeting. It was reported from other committees – I will not say which – that there is so much that has been achieved since the total elections. But we have so much in a week. That is because we are a reasoning, talking and debating committee. We have the culture to try to come to an agreement on the issues of scrutiny. Of course, all the 48 dossiers we are debating have a political dimension. Of course, all matters are political. But according to the instructions we have, our trial should not be political but constitutional. We will see how the government behaves in relation to the Swedish Constitution, our constitutions and the existing practices and regulations. Are we reading everything? Yes, the committee's text is over 500 pages. In fact, we have a good deal of words for words tangled not only once but many times. We have not only plowed through it in a transparent manner, but we have been grunting, negotiating and talking, and we have gone down to the level of detail. Yeah, we're reading it. The investigation material, which is over 600 pages, do we read it? Yeah, pretty much. What is needed we read, and what is needed extra much we return to time and again. However, a third is just over 260 pages, and there every word has been read not only but also spoken by the members of the Constitutional Committee, because that is the hearings. Much of the hearings do not take place in public, but it may be the case that officials and others are questioned before the sitting committee, behind closed doors, but some of the hearings take place, as we know, with television broadcasts and with media representatives present. So we are working, and we are doing, let me say, an excellent job, if you can rate yourself. This is the third term of office that I am active in the committee, first as a working alternate, and then in the last term of office and this term of office as a full member. I can see a change from what it was like when I was a working deputy in the early 2000s and what it was like during the last parliamentary term, when it was much more politicised. I have to agree with the others and say that our President and our Vice-President, together with the others, have contributed to an upsurge. We have looked again at what is our mission, namely a constitutional test, and we have done our absolute best to live up to it. I would like to thank the Vice-President and the President, the other Members and, in particular, our private office. Chancellor Peder Nielsen and his excellent office are among the most qualified in the house. We have many, and we all need – we need more, Madam President, because we are giving them an enormous workload. Other committees have plenty of staff, and they're doing great. As I said, we have as much to do in a week as others have in half a term of office. Without the exceptional art of wording of the Registry in summarising difficult positions, we would not have come this far. Maybe a few things you should go down on. The deliberations of the EU Board have been regular. They're not drunk. The members of the EU Board often mention the shortcomings of the ministers when it comes to handing out material and then following it up. We have points of criticism that are precisely about this. I would also like to mention that there has been an announcement about a parliamentary committee to investigate Parliament's work on EU issues. We are not finished with this issue, but we must move on here. It's not for drunkenness. Once again, we find that the documentation needs to be improved, especially in the event of crises. It is, of course, necessary for this to go away in the event of a crisis, but the documentation must not be broken. Another thing, which we have not looked at in previous years but which we have had reason to look at extra much now, is the role of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. Few of us-- there's something or two exceptions-- knew so much about the Foreign Affairs Board. Now we see what an excellent tool the Foreign Affairs Committee is and how necessary it is from the point of view of the constitutions. The committee should recall that the Government will confer with the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs on a matter of greater importance before taking a decision. There have been criticisms about it a previous year, when this did not happen. Three matters have in some way been about the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. It's very important to protect our courts. In repeated cases, we have come back to the fact that a judgment that has not gained legal force is not to be heard. Once in the world it was called to infuse them, i.e. to criticize them. It was a crime. It couldn't happen. It is certainly not a crime for ministers to infuse judgment or to speak out in the face of judgment, but it is very inappropriate and leads to criticism by the Constitutional Committee. The Council of State may not intervene in the exercise of official authority, at least in the way in which courts judge. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude with what our committee chairman started with: the condemnation of the Orlando attack. There are 50 dead and at least 50 severely injured. It's an Islamic-motivated hate crime. Yes, it has to do with the KU. We stand up for human rights. We have views in Sweden but also out of the world. It is in order that such things do not happen that the Constitutional Committee ultimately exists.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-123	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that one of Parliament's most important tasks is to check how the government and the authorities do their work. The Riksdag has a wide range of ways and tools to help it. The Constitutional Committee is one and has a special task: to review the government and see if it complies with the rules and laws that exist. The MPs can report the government's ministers to the KU, which will annually review the government's work, if they believe that the ministers are in breach of this. For the uninitiated, I can tell you that the review consists of two parts. One is to check whether the ministers have complied with the rules governing the work of the government and have acted correctly in other ways. That part is based on Members' so-called KU notifications. The second part is a general examination. The KU will then review various documents from the Government Office to see if the Government has complied with laws and practices in the handling of government matters. From this year on, we have a new order for dealing with the report in this House. The subject is not set up as a subject for debate and decision, but only as a subject for debate. This means that, after the debate, the report will be added to the documents. The matter will not, as before, be taken up for the vote in plenary. The reason for this is that the review under Chapter 13. Section 2 The form of government is a task that rests on the Constitutional Committee and not on the Riksdag. The Constitutional Committee's review report does not contain a proposal for a parliamentary decision but is merely a notification of the outcome of the committee's review. Madam President, I would like Now I was going to say a few words about the questions about the government's relationship with the Riksdag. In this chapter, the committee has examined seven issues relating to the area mentioned. The first is the handling of Parliament's budget decisions on special funding for universities and higher education institutions. The second is the Minister for Social Security's handling of Parliament's decision on the gender equality bonus in parental insurance. The third is the handling by the Minister for Labour of notices on the review of the Employment Service. The fourth is the Ministry of Education's handling of the 10-year primary school announcement. The fifth is the government's decision to change the mission of the Samor dnar for Bromma airport. The sixth concerns the action of the government in connection with the preparation of the aid budget. And the seventh is about the Secretary of Defense's handling of questions around a radar system. In this chapter we find the then Minister of Economic Affairs' actions regarding the processing of mining permits. It has been examined by the committee. The review does not give rise to any statement on the part of the committee. However, the committee would like to take this opportunity to recall the review of coordinators in different policy areas carried out by the committee in autumn 2015 and what the committee said at the time about, among other things, the cases where a coordinator has a clear external and driving role within the framework of the Government Office. In the examination of the question concerning the involvement of the Minister for Infrastructure in operating aid to airports, the committee notes that the matter at issue at the Transport Administration concerned the exercise of public authority and thus falls under Chapter 12. Section 2 the form of government. The call for prompt handling had serious consequences for the way the Swedish Transport Administration came to handle the matter. The Government has overall responsibility for what is happening within the Ministry, and there were obvious reasons for her to follow the issue and thus also to pay attention to how communication between the Ministry and the Finnish Transport Administration developed. However, no such measures were taken by the Government. The committee also considers it appropriate to underline what it said earlier on the subject of documentation and notes that the requirements for documentation are not met in the present case. In conclusion, the committee believes that the Government cannot escape criticism for its actions on this issue. In addition, the committee has examined the Ministry of Industry's handling of the Swedish Maritime Administration's purchase of helicopters. The agreement in the autumn of 2012 was concluded by the Swedish Maritime Administration in the same way as the Swedish Parliament's decision on the investment plan and loan framework for the Swedish Maritime Administration. In the committee's view, the act is not in conformity with Chapter 9. Section 8 the form of government. The Government Office was at an early stage aware that the Swedish Maritime Administration wanted to buy new helicopters. In the light of the findings of the examination, the committee considers it appropriate to emphasise strongly the importance of proper dialogue with the authorities. The committee recalls what it said earlier about documentation in government dialogues. The committee also considers it inappropriate for officials in the Government Office to use private e-mail addresses. If this ever happens, it is important that there are procedures in place to ensure that e-mails are handled according to the usual procedures. According to the committee, the State Council at the time cannot escape criticism of the Ministry of Industry's handling of the Swedish Maritime Administration's purchasing of helicopters. Having said that, Madam President, I would like the committee to add the report to the file. I would like to take this opportunity, as colleagues have done in the past, to thank you for the good cooperation of both the secretariat and the committee group. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Mathias Sundin for her good cooperation. And I wish everyone a nice summer.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-132	Madam President, I would like A while ago there was an article in the Express where it was said that the most frequent were those who had experienced the most votes in this Chamber. Then I felt spontaneously: Yes, but that's not where the work is done. It's done in the committees. And our work in the KU began the day after January 29, when we had received all the notifications. I will pay tribute, as many have done in the past, to our office. I am impressed by the work you are doing. I'd like to give you a big round of applause. It's amazing. Let's say something on Tuesday. On Thursday, it's delivered. Accuracy is a benchmark for the work of Parliament and the Government. In this review, we have noted that it has sometimes been a little sloppy, for example in relation to Helene Hellmark Knutsson's and the government's handling of additional funds for universities and colleges. On 17 December, we decided on money to go to universities and colleges. On the 18th, that decision was amended. It's all right. But you must not refrain from recording it. It was registered only on 26 January. It took some time from December 18 to January 26. The committee points to the importance of dealing with such things in the way they are to be handled. I want to thank everyone. We are the best committee in Parliament.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-137	Madam President, I would like We are now talking about the part of the KU's major review report that is referred to as a few questions about the government's relationship with the Riksdag. I am going to raise a few of the issues that are included in the chapter and which concern the concept of limits. It is a concept that may not be used very much in society. The government's budget is usually presented in September. Most of the budget is prepared in fact much earlier, and sometimes reality changes from the government's presentation of its budget to the Parliament's decision in December. It can often be the case that sickness rates or unemployment increase more than in the forecast one has had. In the autumn, the number of asylum seekers exceeded the forecast in the summer. When this occurs, the Government has an obligation to take measures to ensure that the budget ceilings are not exceeded. Then you usually use a variety of activities. This could involve bringing forward, where possible, a fee so that it can be paid in December instead of January. It may also be a question of imposing restrictions on the expenditure that may be paid out. And that's what they call limits. It is a customary process that is very similar to how one would manage one's own personal finances if one gets an unforeseen expense and faces a change in reality. But communication is not always easy. We shall be aware of that. If, for a long period of time, you have fought for a special grant in one area and have seen that it has gone through the long process in the Government Office and right up to the Riksdag, you can feel upset when you then hear that the grant is not at all as decided. Therefore, the KU clearly states that the government has done quite rightly in the handling of the matter. But communication may need to be improved. It also makes sense. Another matter examined is the question of Bromma airport. What the notifier wanted to examine is the statements made by former Minister Mehmet Kaplan on the basis of the new directives given to the coordinator of Bromma airport and if the statements violate the requirement of objectivity. There are, of course, many interesting aspects to this issue. The strongest of all is the strong political contradiction in terms of how to deal with Bromma in the long term – if you see that there is a strategic importance in keeping Bromma as an airport, or if you see that the future may lie in moving the flight to Arlanda Airport and building housing at Bromma Airport. The political explosive power on this interesting issue we in the KU are fighting to ignore completely. Instead, we are dealing with how Parliament and the government have worked on this issue. Here, too, there are interesting aspects. Last year we criticised the Minister for not having heard all the parties correctly. This year we note that the Minister has not been quite correct. In this context, I would like to remind you of the decisions we took last week when the KU submitted its report KU21, which dealt with the Government's letter 75. We raised the issue of negative announcements. This has been an important question of principle which we in the KU could finally judge. It has been difficult for the government to know how it should behave when the Riksdag decides that it does not want the government to do anything and the government knows that it still has the investigative power and the power to produce proposals and get the basis for the decisions to be made. That is why I would like to remind you of what we have come up with in terms of the negative announcements in a letter on which we are in complete agreement. We write like this: a situation may arise with regard to certain types of negative announcements, which means that the Riksdag, through an announcement, expresses that the Government should not propose a certain measure to the Riksdag, while at the same time proposing the resolution under Chapter 4. Section 4 RF has a constitutional right to add proposals to the Riksdag. Since announcements are unregulated, they cannot take over the rules of government. The government thus has to deal with announcements, negatives and others, under parliamentary responsibility. .....................................................
i-196d2d9734bc6729-146	Madam President, I would like We are going to go through the dreary lunta that I presented to the House a moment ago. Out of 48 cases, it's just a pick-up, as a test of what we've done. From the first chapter, which deals with the government's relationship with the Riksdag, I would like to mention two issues which we have looked at and which are interesting in principle. It is partly about the handling and opinion of the former Minister of State Mehmet Kaplan on Bromma airport and partly about the handling of a radar system by Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. The assignment to the State Coordinator for Bromma Airport meant, even after the change of the assignment, that the coordinator would, among other things, test the conditions for developing flight capacity in the Stockholm region. In a newspaper interview, Minister Mehmet Kaplan replied that the changed assignment meant that the coordinator was not allowed to look at the future of Bromma airport at all. It was not in line with the design of the mission. The committee has stressed the importance of the Council's statements being correct. In the case of Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, it was about the condition and performance of a radar system. We have chosen not to analyse the condition and performance of the radar system. It's not our mission. It is the Committee on Defence which deals with such matters. However, it is important that Peter Hultqvist, when replying to an interpellation in this House, has ensured that his statements are based on accurate data. We haven't been able to lead in evidence that it swung. Nevertheless, we point out that ministers who respond to an interpellation are responsible for the basis they have for the answers. The review has revealed that the responses from the Minister for Defence were based on a memo prepared by the Swedish Armed Forces, specifically by a colonel who was present when the media looked at the condition and performance of the radar system together with parliamentarians. As regards the presence of an official of the Ministry of Defence at a demonstration of the radar system, the Minister of Defence has argued that the official has not taken any action to influence the way the demonstration was carried out, the questions asked by the present journalists or the answers given. I have not been able to lead in proof that this has affected or tended towards the east, but the committee would like to emphasise here the importance of proper action by the department. That's how far we've gotten there. It is probably also so important for Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist to take with him for the future.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-154	Okay! It may have been my flawed pronunciation or my half-done Google Translate translation that haunts here, but it seems in any case overall that it may not be entirely successful to try to make your petitions in French into this Parliament. So we take it in Swedish instead, which may well be considered a slightly more appropriate language in these contexts. The Constitutional Committee reviews the performance of the duties of the ministers and the handling of government affairs. However, the committee cannot examine everything that is happening in Brussels. Well, maybe luck is. Otherwise, we would probably not have had much more to do here than to examine deviations from the Swedish constitution. What we can look at, however, is the part of the decision-making process that is leaking down to Sweden after all. However, a prerequisite for this should be that the material we are set to examine is in Swedish or at least English, which is nevertheless a mandatory part of the Swedish curriculum. But as former Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson, to send documents in French and hope for the best does not suggest. Another prerequisite for meaningful control of the government is that the responsible minister is in fact able to present the government's proposals for positions in the EU Board. This applies not least to the so-called ‘A' points. The committee has now, perhaps a little presumptuously, had to stress the importance of the government making sure that the material supplied to the EU Council is such that the consultation becomes meaningful. I believe that it is a prerequisite for there to be any possibility, in any case, of using a minimum of Swedish rule in Brussels' salons. Madam President, I would like With regard to precisely the basis for deliberations, it is worth mentioning that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven does not always seem to have full control over the documents he has with him and provides the EU Board with. In addition to various previous figures, the meeting of the EU Board on 22 April last year can now also be added, where the Prime Minister was pleased to show up with his own unofficial meeting basis, while the members of the Board had been given something else. In order to be constructive and meaningful consultations where taxpayers' money is used for some useful purpose, it should reasonably be possible to request that all those expected to attend the same meeting also have or be given access to the same material. In this particular case, it could easily have been resolved by the Prime Minister having been clear with which document he read from, or at least requested and ensured which material was available to the others when the obvious ambiguities were discovered. If nothing else, it would have been a more statesmanly way of dealing with the situation that has arisen rather than engaging in arrogant reading. But even in cases where the ministers seem to have the right material, in the right language and with clear mandates, it is obviously not always easy to represent the Swedish people's will in Brussels anyway. Clear examples of this are found in Ministers Alice Bah Kuhnke and Gabriel Wikström, who, on the same day and at the same meeting of the EU Council, received relatively simple and clear mandates to stick to the Council of Ministers meeting. Instead of following these, however, it can be seen from the re-reporting that they did nothing. They were completely silent at the meeting and did not express the views that had been imposed on them by the Riksdag. The KU has stated in this respect that a position anchored in the EU Board is expected to be fully pursued in the Council. If the Government representative considers that a deviation from the Board's position is necessary, there is always the possibility to seek renewed contact with the Board's members. In addition, if a minister does not act after what has been decided on the Board, the reasons shall be clearly set out in the re-report. I think, Madam President, that the ministers should both have and show much greater respect for parliamentary democracy. As far as respect for parliamentary democracy is concerned, or rather the absence thereof, I would particularly like to highlight Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman. The Minister for Home Affairs has not only failed to consult the EU Board on a change of Swedish position regarding the EU's common border control agency Frontex – he has also lied. Ygeman has stated that at the informal meeting he pointed out that border control is primarily a national responsibility, which is in line with the previously established position of the Parliament. However, during the examination, it has emerged that at the informal meeting the Government also stated that it is important to consider all possibilities for strengthening the management of the external border. In addition, in a radio interview conducted in connection with the current meeting, the Government stated that he is prepared to allow Frontex, or a future Frontex, to go against the will of a Member State. The Ygeman Government, through its two statements made during and in close proximity to the informal meeting, may be deemed to have expressed a position which was not in line with what had been anchored in the EU Board. For this, Minister Ygeman has been criticised by a united committee. But worse, and now I may go ahead with the events, Ygeman in an interview with TT published on SVT's website on 11 February has also suggested the following: I am very pleased that all the parties have supported what is now Sweden's position, and that he was anchored on Thursday in the Government's line in the Committee on Justice, and that a country, after going through the entire stairs, is opposed to efforts, so we believe that they should also be able to be mandatory. However, from the minutes of the Committee on Justice of the day in question, it emerges that, for reasons of principle, the representatives of the Swedish Democrats are opposed by the EU to the right of the Member States to control and maintain their borders and that one representative of another party states that she does not agree with the government's position as the proposal is too far-reaching and leads to more supranationality. During the hearing of the Constitutional Committee on 18 April this year, Anders Ygeman was given the opportunity to explain how he could nevertheless come up with the conclusions he expressed in the current interview, which therefore followed directly at the meeting of the Justice Committee where he himself participated. In reply, he argued, inter alia, that: It simply depends on the culture that Parliament has to adjust the Minutes. You can change your sentence until the protocol is adjusted. Some parties chose to use this option to adjust their position after the committee meeting. There was no position expressed at the meeting. However, when checking with the head of the Registry of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it informs us that the minutes do not contain any information at all which was not presented at the sitting and that it is not possible to keep anything in the Minutes which was not presented at the sitting. That makes sense, doesn't it? In addition to the fact that it is bad enough that Ygeman seems to have tried to deceive the journalist corps, his pragmatic approach to the truth towards the people's main representatives has led to another review of the Council of State, which has just just incurred three cases of criticism for such inappropriate statements. I can assure you, Madam President, that this is not the last thing we hear on this matter, as surely as I am unfortunately convinced that it is not the last inappropriate statement we hear from Minister Ygeman.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-173	Madam President, I would like So, then, we have come to the shoal, or what I shall say, of notifications relating to European affairs and their handling. There are eight complaints, but there are few cases where there are still criticisms. Several notifications concern consultations where the government is not actually obliged to consult. However, it is always an advantage if the Riksdag receives information. It is good to inform, but we cannot make the same demands for information and discussion in relation to things that do not need to be consulted as in the case of things that are really the subject of consultation. It makes sense. At least that's the way it is. We note that it is of the utmost importance that the consultation that is taking place and the information given to the EU Board work so that the Riksdag can have the real influence on Sweden's positions that the Riksdag should have. It must be accurate information, and as far as possible it must be in an intelligible language. At the same time, we are calling for it to be translated as soon as possible, and then it is not always possible to have it translated. We often demand that the first version be sent out, and then it can be in a language other than Swedish. Then we also say that there should be annotations so that it can be understood. We have noted that in individual cases such cases have been lacking, and that is a shortcoming. In this context, I would like to point out that a decision has been taken to set up a parliamentary committee in Parliament to look at how EU issues are dealt with. Several of the things we have looked at here will also be discussed in this work to get a good system for these issues. In particular, I would like to comment on the issue of the basis for the discussion on 22 April, which would discuss Sweden's position on changes to Frontex. We note jointly that the Government and the Riksdag have an interest in the functioning of the consultation and that they have a common responsibility to clarify any ambiguities during a consultation. In seven of the cases, we agree, but not in this eighth. In this case, there was no ready written basis for consultation. It was a so-called oral consultation. However, the European Commission had published a press release which contained points that were thought to be agreed to later consult on and which had been published on the European Commission's website. When the meeting between the Prime Minister and the EU Board began, the Chairman of the EU Board pointed out that there was no ready-made basis without a press release. There was nothing more about it. Discussions were held, and questions were asked to the Prime Minister on the basis of the press release. The Prime Minister replied: Yes, but it says here. Questions were asked, for example, about what Frontex would do and about the first data on protecting and saving. The Prime Minister replied: Yes, but it says here in the first paragraph. What he didn't do was tell him what kind of evidence he had. The members of the Board thus had the press release. The Prime Minister had another informal basis that he had received at a meeting, where there were other wordings on these points. The committee notes that the clarification of any ambiguities during consultation is a matter for both the EU Board and the government. In the next sentence, the Committee feels that, in the light of the circumstances, there is no reason to make a complaint to the government for the procedure applied. ..................................................... Very strange, I think. It should certainly be an addition there: with the President and Members of the EU Board having explained what paper they were on, it would have been appropriate for the Prime Minister to have done the same. It would have been possible to clarify any ambiguities. Then you'd know it was different papers. With this wording, which the committee has chosen to support, it will be a mess for the future. What do we really mean? Should the Chairman of the EU Board first say what basis the Board has and then ask: is the Minister sitting on the same basis, or what paper does the Minister have in front of him? It is logical, however, that the Minister should also take the responsibility to tell you what kind of paper you have. We have put the whole responsibility for this on the European Parliament's board, even though at the same time we say that it is a joint responsibility. I do not think that this is a reasonable approach, and I hope that the government is smart enough to understand that ministers should talk about the basis they have on the consultation meetings.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-186	Madam President, I would like Chapter 2 of the review report mentions the notifications concerning the government's handling of EU issues. There have been an unusual number of KU notifications about this section – a total of nine, of which two have been merged into one. Eight cases are therefore presented in this chapter. Each case has been dealt with thoroughly. We have not only taken positions on the various matters, but have also separated them according to their nature. Some cases are of a serious nature and some cases are not of a serious nature at all. This work has led to the KU having critical views in only two cases, which, as I see it, relate to three ministers. The criticism of these cases is justified. The rest of the cases have been left without any criticism, which means that the notified ministers have not committed any constitutional errors in the majority of the cases in this chapter. It concerns six cases. If you look closely at these six cases, you may in some cases feel that the notifications may have been somewhat hasty. At least that's how I perceive it. In the report, for example, we have examined the question of consultation of the EU Board with a view to the Valletta Summit, where we concluded that there is no obligation to consult, and the question of the defence minister's consultation with the EU Board of Support for France. There, the notifier has partly misinterpreted EU legislation and confused the various treaties. We also concluded that there was no obligation to consult the EU Board. On the question of the Prime Minister's consultation with the EU Board on the Dublin Regulation, it appeared that the positions expressed by the Prime Minister at the informal meeting of EU Heads of State or Government on 12 November 2015 were the same as those established in the EU Board two days earlier. I can feel that in such a situation, a report might not have been filed. There are other examples in the report that I will not prefer, but where the result of the examination has meant that consultation obligations have not been imposed in the six remaining cases. But it is as it is, Madam President, that all Members of Parliament have the right to report – and should do so when they have a suspicion that errors have been committed. Every report must nevertheless be examined, as we in the KU have done. During the spring, I have also noticed that the notifications concerning the government's handling of EU issues – or indeed the review report as a whole in view of the number of KU notifications – have led to discussions outside the KU among politicians but above all in the media. Several journalists have claimed in various writings that the KU is used as a political tool. You can read allegations in the media that a KU notification is made for political purposes in an attempt to frame a minister. That, of course, should not be the case. A KU notification should be made when one seriously suspects that a minister has committed a constitutional error, i.e. violated the constitution. That is why I am pleased that, regardless of who the notifier is, we members of the KU have, in any case, examined the cases with objective and impartial eyes and after mature considerations, been able to resolve the issues and reach agreement on all EU-related matters in this chapter – with the exception of a case where there is a joint reservation from SD and V, whose representatives have now explained their positions. Nevertheless, through our joint work in the KU, on the whole, we have maintained the reputation of the KU in its role as an audit body, which is important from the point of view of democracy. Madam President, I would like I don't intend to go in and explain matters to you. However, when I read these matters and think about it, these notifications raise some concerns about the Parliament's EU Board and the government's handling of EU issues. It may well be that there are shortcomings in the handling of matters and in the relationship between the Riksdag and the Government. But it is not always the government's fault that shortcomings arise, as the majority of the KU's positions on these very matters make us understand. Most of the shortcomings that have given rise to the notifications have, as I see it in any case, mostly been due to a system error where the current regulatory framework is a contributing factor in this too. This is evident when you read these matters. There are different kinds of issues that are concerned here and that one feels need to be sorted out. However, the most important of them is the question of the obligation to consult. There seems to be uncertainty and a lack of clarity regarding, for example, the government's obligation to consult the Riksdag, and above all with the EU Board. In essence, there is agreement on what applies. But there are sometimes situations where this uncertainty is evident – it may be from the government and from the parliament – which also certainly leads to KU notifications that we have had to try. If you ask us Members of Parliament, we may think it should be in one way, and if you ask the government, they may think it should be in another way in some cases. The rules governing the activities of the EU Board are outlined in the Parliamentary Order. The role and working methods of the EU Board are developed through the practice of term of office. For example, the interpretation of what to consult on has gradually been broadened to include all the points on a Council agenda today, including those that should only be discussed or informed about. More recently, the demands on the annotated agendas have increased and the written documentation has been given greater importance than in the past. For example, we Members of Parliament can sometimes argue that we cannot take a position on an issue because we have not received the written documentation in advance. Nevertheless, my view is that whatever this is, there is a need for the system of consultation and information between Parliament and the government to be more predictable and more clearly regulated than it is today. Another point I would like to mention is that the European Council usually adjusts the government's proposals for action at a detailed level. Sometimes there are also demands for the government to express the positions that the EU Board has formulated and not to leave out anything. The KU has previously stated that the Government should act in accordance with the Board's positions, which the Government does not always seem to interpret as being done verbatim. We have been able to draw attention to this problem in the review dossier concerning the actions of the Minister for Culture and Democracy and the Minister for Sport in the EU Council of Ministers, where, in this case, the Ministers had not fully complied with the mandates of the EU Council. The KU therefore stresses the importance of full compliance with a position established by the EU Board in the Council. Madam President, I would like EU work is complicated, to say the least. We have three parties there, namely Parliament, the Government and the EU, and the interaction between them. Although it is the government that represents Sweden in the EU, it is nevertheless important that the government informs and anchors its actions with the Riksdag. The idea of this is that the Riksdag as the people's main representative should have an influence on the positions that Sweden should have in the EU. This also means that the Riksdag should have a real opportunity to influence the direction of politics in advance and not only afterwards to check what the government has already done. The starting point for this collaboration between the parliament and the government is that Sweden's interests in the EU are met in the best possible way. On the other hand, it is equally clear that it is the government's responsibility to push EU work through. Thus, while the division of responsibility in principle is clear, the limited written regulation in the form of government and in the parliamentary order, together with a now rather long series of opinions from the KU, can make it difficult to know for sure what obligations the government has towards the Riksdag at all times. It is therefore important to mention here that the Riksdag decided in April this year, on a proposal from the Constitutional Committee, to address an announcement to the Riksdag Board to set up a parliamentary committee to investigate Parliament's work on EU issues. This has now been referred to by the KU in every position on the handling of European issues in this report. The KU also requires that the reports and observations in the respective review cases be taken into account in the investigation work. I will also inform you that last week, on 8 June, the Board of Governors decided that a parliamentary committee will investigate Parliament's work on EU issues. The last time these issues were investigated was ten years ago, and cooperation with the EU has changed a great deal during this period. It is therefore important to review these issues in order to ensure appropriate working arrangements and tools. I welcome this investigation and look forward to its outcome. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the KU and the Office for a good job of scrutiny. As this is my last debate before the summer break, I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President and everyone else a pleasant summer.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-209	Madam President, I would like Of the 48 notifications that the committee has dealt with in this year's review, just over one fifth, or ten, concern the handling of EU issues. Nine of these ten are dealt with in this section, while the tenth is in the chapter on the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. We'll get to that later. Of these ten notifications, the committee has, in four cases, made various criticisms of ministers. Notifications on EU issues concern issues such as government information and consultation obligations, handling and administrative aspects of EU affairs, and compliance with the positions expressed during the consultations within the EU Board. Generally speaking, the number of notifications received indicates that there is a need to review how the Riksdag works with EU issues. On the other hand, I would not like to say that any of these notifications have been superfluous, but there have been reasons for examining all these notifications. It has also led to difficult considerations in many cases. I therefore do not share the view that the KU is politicised simply because there are so many reports, as some say. There may be reason to report. In this case, some points point out that there may be some doubt as to how to deal with EU issues. We therefore welcome the parliamentary committee that has now been set up to investigate these issues. I'll get back to the audit. First of all, I would like to say that I am very likely to exceed the time allocated to me, for which I am very sorry. In some cases, in this year's review, the Constitutional Committee has noted that the dossiers are outside the information and consultation obligation. This concerns the notification of the defence minister's consultation with the EU Board on bilateral assistance to France, and it concerns the question of consultation with the EU Board for the Valletta Summit. In a couple of other matters, the committee has not found grounds for comment. In case 2.6, concerning the Prime Minister's consultation with the EU Board on the Dublin Regulation, the committee has found that the information provided at the informal meeting in Valletta was in line with what had been anchored in the EU Board. In case 2.1, concerning the foreign minister's consultation with the EU Board on the EU military operation in the Mediterranean, the committee has noted that the previously established practice of having written consultation with the EU Board of Governors for a period of two hours may be considered to be fulfilled in the light of the circumstances prevailing at the time. As regards investigations into the handling of cases and supporting documents for consultation, the committee has examined the matter concerning the Prime Minister's documentation during a consultation with the EU Board on whether evidence was missing on this occasion. In the present case, there appears to have been some confusion about the written evidence. The committee believes that it is in the interests of both Parliament and the Government that the consultations work and that ambiguities are cleared up. However, in the light of the particular circumstances of this particular case, the committee does not consider that there is any reason to make any comment. On the other hand, this is different in the case of the former Minister for Climate and the Environment's handling of written consultations with the EU Board. In this case, the Coreper agendas have been submitted to the EU Board in French. In addition, the Swedish annotations were less detailed than required, and in one case there was no annotation where such an annotation would have been developed. It is precisely the annotations that the committee is stuck with. In this case, there must be a balance between the need for urgency and the need for consultation to be meaningful, but also that things are in the way that can be expected. Things should meet the requirements that are set for what is to be included. This is one of the issues that an established study on future work on EU issues should review. In addition to these comments, the committee has had no comment. In addition to issues relating to information and consultation obligations and handling of matters, the committee has examined two notifications concerning the approach of ministers to positions established during consultations between the government and the EU Board. One of the starting points for the influence conferred on Parliament by the EU Board is that the government should not represent a position that contradicts what emerged from the consultation. This applies regardless of whether the position is expressed during or alongside formal meetings. In the case of the Minister for Culture and Democracy and the Minister for Sport's actions in the EU Council of Ministers, Alice Bah Kuhnke and Gabriel Wikström have, in three different cases, received positions with the meaning that cultural and sports issues in Swedish opinion are within the national competence. These issues should therefore not give rise to excessive Council conclusions that interfere with national competences. The consultations have not raised any doubts as to the form and scope of the position. However, at the Council meetings the Swedish perception of national competence has not been expressed. In this context, the committee would like to point out that it is important that a position firmly established by the EU Board is fully respected in the Council. We also believe that if there are deviations from the Board's position, this should be clearly stated in the written report. This has not happened on these occasions. Finally, the Constitutional Committee has examined Minister Ygeman for his actions in connection with an informal meeting of EU Ministers of Home Affairs and Justice from 25 to 26 January. The meeting discussed, inter alia, the EU's Joint Border Control Agency (FRONTEX). The issue of Frontex's powers has for a long time been the subject of consultation in both the Committee on Justice and the EU Board. The attitude of the Swedish Government has long been that border control is a national matter, and at this meeting it was still the Swedish position. In the autumn of 2015, this was also underlined on several occasions by the Prime Minister of the EU Board. Sweden's position on the Frontex issue then, to quote the Prime Minister, has been that our own laws on their own borders have to stand up for them and that Frontex should not cross any borders and that this is not an EU mandate. In other words, the Swedish position – as enshrined in the EU Board – has been very clear. The fact that border control is a national responsibility was also stated by Minister Ygeman at the said informal meeting on 25 and 26 January. So far, so good. In addition to this, however, according to the Council Protocol, the Government has also said that a consideration should be given to all possible ways of strengthening the management of the external border. In addition, in an interview with the Swedish Radio on 26 January – in the margins of the current meeting – the Government has said that, I am prepared to allow Frontex, or a future Frontex, to go against the will of a Member State. In the committee's hearing of Anders Ygeman, he stated that the statement on radio was a response to the question of the future of Europe in general. However, if you continue to listen to the interview, it is very clear that this is precisely about Frontex and the Swedish position on Frontex. It is a fundamental principle that the government should not represent a position contrary to that expressed by the EU Board during a consultation. When we have dealt with this, we have also underlined the importance of thinking and ideas put forward in the EU circle having to be anchored in the EU Board. In this case, Minister Ygeman has put forward a position that was not in line with what the government had established in the EU Council. The fact that the statement on the radio was made at the time of and in the immediate context of an informal meeting in which Frontex was specifically discussed and that the statement is reinforced by the State Council's comment on considering all possibilities is particularly aggravating. The Government should have applied for a renewed mandate before this new attitude was announced. For this reason, the Government cannot escape criticism.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-226	Madam President, I would like It may be noted that we are repeating ourselves, but it has to be done. We have to repeat ourselves because the purpose of the accounts we have in this House is not to call for approval of the report, even if some Member may have slipped a little with his tongue. We will not vote on the report, but we will report it to the House. We have already taken our stand with the Constitutional Committee making the case. This is a report for the other Members and our party friends. In my case, then, I report to the Christian Democrats the work and positions that I have made and are personally responsible for. But it is also an accounting for the public and the media of what we have come up with. The matter is not reviewed by Parliament and a decision by Parliament's Chamber. Now we are on Chapter 2, which deals with the government's handling of EU issues. I would like to highlight two points from this chapter: Åsa Romson's and Anders Ygeman's handling of EU issues. First of all, it is essential that consultation and information to the EU Board work well. We have come back to that again and again during the previous debate, and I would like to emphasise this too. When the language is French, it means that it is difficult for someone who has not read the French language or can quickly find someone who can interpret. We say about this that the government should present such a basis to the Board that the consultation becomes meaningful. It is a clear, but not overexplicit, indication that it is not reasonable to have a conversation that does not make sense because it is conducted in French and not everyone knows it. In this case, the list of A-items listed was based on the Coreper agenda sent to the Board. In addition, the committee notes that in a few cases the Swedish annotations were less detailed than the current guidelines require. In one case, there were no annotations for a decision point where they should have been developed. Åsa Romson was responsible for this. More important and more dramatic is probably what applies to Minister for Home Affairs Anders Ygeman, who had been commissioned to represent a position. He cannot therefore represent a position contrary to what the EU Board has expressed in the consultation. However, he has managed to do so, and that is why he cannot escape criticism, as the Constitutional Committee says. He stressed at the informal meeting that border control was primarily a national responsibility. So far, everything is well; that was the position he had anchored in the Parliament's EU Council. But right in the middle of all this is a radio interview. In addition, there were informal meetings where the Minister for the Interior spoke differently. At the informal meeting, he said that it is important to consider all possibilities for strengthening the management of the external border. In the radio interview that was going on during the meeting, which was on this very subject, he says: This was contrary to the instructions he had, and his position was not in line with what had been anchored in the EU Board. Therefore, Minister Anders Ygeman cannot escape criticism.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-232	Madam President, I would like We have come to section 3 of the review report. This section has the title. In fact, under that heading, which may not be very exciting, are rather interesting questions, including: How should appointments and appointments of Directors-General or other missions be carried out? How quickly should the disclosure of documents be notified? What documentation is required from meetings of the Innovation Council and the Security Policy Council? What does the government need to deliberate with the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs? I intend to dwell on what concerns support or agreements with other countries and whether or not they should be discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee. There are three different issues in which the need for consultation and information to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs is affected in different ways. The majority of the committee believes that in two cases there should be consultation with the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. We fully agree that there should be consultations in the Foreign Affairs Committee in those cases, but the majority believe that this is not necessary in the third case. My assessment is that there should be discussion – consultation, discussion – in the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs on all cases. I think the majority's assessment is illogical. After the terrorist attacks in Paris, France asked for assistance with reference to the EU Treaty Article 42:7 for assistance and assistance in the event of armed attacks, i.e. a treaty approved by Sweden. We are part of the European Union and are part of that organisation. When another country has requested support, a request has been sent to us, and it has been deemed that it must be brought up to the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it has also been up there before decisions were taken. In spring 2015, the Memorandum of Understanding on Military Cooperation with Saudi Arabia was signed. We believe it should have been up on the Foreign Affairs Board. It wasn't. We think it should have been raised in the Foreign Affairs Committee that this agreement should be terminated. In August 2014, the then government decided to sign an Additional Protocol to the Partnership for Peace and a Memorandum of Understanding with NATO on host country support. According to the majority in the committee, it was not something that needed to be lifted in the Foreign Affairs Committee. Among other things, the committee states that Sweden is already cooperating and practicing with NATO in the Partnership for Peace and that the agreement does not mean anything unless specific decisions are taken on it and that it basically only makes it a little easier administrative when exercises are to be carried out. The argument that there is already cooperation did not apply to France's request for support after the terrorist attacks. There, the committee thought it should be sent to the Foreign Affairs Committee, but it did not seem to me that this was for any inscrutable reason. I believe that this is not just an administrative decision. It is not just about making the exercises easier, but it shows a will direction and ambition for Sweden's military cooperation and our security work. It is clear that it is a matter of security policy and a matter of greater importance. I am not entirely alone in thinking that this is something more than an administrative decision and that it actually shows what Sweden's ambition is. Yesterday it was an article in Svenska Dagbladet by several ambassadors, which was interesting in itself, and a number of military personnel. It addressed, among other things, the issue of the Memorandum of Understanding with NATO, but also the discussion of closer cooperation with the US in general. As far as the host country agreement is concerned, it was written as follows: It is proof that Sweden has now left its former isolationist security policy and is prepared to contribute actively to peace in the Baltic Sea region. ..................................................... Quite apart from what conclusions we draw from the agreement and whether or not we contribute to peace in the Baltic Sea region, it is clear that it is not just me who thinks that this is something more than an administrative decision. There are several people who signed this, and there are people who you can think know what they are talking about – colonels, generals and so on. I think it would have been reasonable for this to have gone to the Foreign Affairs Council. As it is now, I believe that when agreements are terminated, they should go to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs and when individual countries are supported, it should go to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs, but when a host country agreement is concluded with NATO, it should not go to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. It is a logic that I cannot understand, and I find this strange. I think it is about the fact that we really think the agreement is good, and I think that is a completely different issue. Whatever you think of it, it should be discussed in the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-244	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to thank the members of the committee for their good cooperation. I would also like to thank our excellent office. Without it, we would never have arrived at such a good end product as we have actually done. Out of 48 notifications, 11 have resulted in cases that have been dealt with within the framework of the chapter I will touch some of them. I was going to start with the matter that Mia Sydow Mölleby was most concerned with, that is to say, what concerns the government's action with regard to the Memorandum of Understanding with NATO on host country support and other things. The review here concerns a subject that has been highly topical politically during the spring, as has been mentioned here. Of course, the question of Sweden's relationship with other states in terms of military cooperation, joint exercises and other incredibly important matters, and it must be dealt with with with a particularly careful touch as it has bearings on how we secure our country in the event of conflict. The question the committee has had to consider has been whether or not the government on this matter should have consulted with the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs before adopting a position. Mr President, I would like to The committee notes, after examining, among other things, what Sweden's relationship with NATO through our participation in the Partnership for Peace looks like, that the government's action on this issue has been correct. When all the material comes up on the table, when previous decisions are reviewed and the question of host country agreements with NATO is put into the context of our relationship with and cooperation with the defence alliance, it becomes clear that the agreement itself is not what is commonly called a foreign matter of greater importance. Before moving on to the next dossier that we have examined, I cannot help but mention the terrible events that took place in Orlando this weekend. A representative of the terror cult Daish attacked people with a different sexual orientation from that of mainstream society. 50 people died and 50 were injured simply because they manifested who they are and lived up to the values that an open society should stand for. This in itself was a terrible event but also something that has hit us here in Europe. It was raised in one of the reviews carried out by the committee – a matter concerning France and the consequences of the terrorist attacks last autumn. We have examined the government's deliberations with the Foreign Affairs Committee in response to France's request for assistance. The background, as I said, is the terrible terrorist attacks in Paris at the end of last year. After Daish's coordinated attack in several places in the city, including Stade de France and a concert hall, 130 people were killed and over 350 injured, France requested the assistance of the other EU States under Article 42:7. The article says, among other things, that if a Member State were to be subjected to an armed attack on its territory, the other Member States would be obliged to provide assistance and assistance to that Member State with all the means at their disposal in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. Mr President, I would like to The matter concerns a terrible event in Europe and some of the political consequences of it. The Treaty of Lisbon article on support and assistance to a Member State in the event of an armed attack on its territory has never had to be invoked before. This fact makes it obvious that it is interesting for the KU to examine how the government has acted on the basis of France's request for assistance. The fact that it is a foreign matter of greater importance seems almost self-evident. We also find in our review that the government has raised the issue of France's request in the Foreign Affairs Committee before the press conference of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence on 16 December last year on what kind of support Sweden could offer France. The committee notes that the government has acted correctly and correctly in relation to the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. Mr President, I would like to Last but not least, I would also like to mention briefly the review of the Government's Security Council. The notifier asked the committee to examine the issue of documentation of Council meetings. In order to understand the committee's position not to make a statement in connection with the examination, it is necessary to understand the informal position of the Security Policy Council. The Council does not form a formal part of the preparation work of the Government Office, but each of the ministers involved has the opportunity to bring a case in the usual way when there is a need for this. The fact that ministers are talking to each other outside government meetings is not uncommon. Then to call the group of ministers who are talking to each other for something, in this case a Security Policy Council, does not give the association any special status in the respects we have to examine. In this case, it is worth considering what it would have meant if we in committee had come to the opposite of what we came up with in the examination. Probably this would have meant that the slightest snack between ministers would have had to be documented for traceability and to allow for scrutiny in the way the notifier would like.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-258	Mr President, I would like to I, too, would like to thank you for your cooperation and excellent help from our office, long after all school leavings and student receptions. Mr President, I would like to In the section, the handling of certain government matters, etc., various types of cases are dealt with. As in the constitutional committee's review of this and last year, we broadly agree across party boundaries. Nevertheless, I shall dwell on some of the dossiers, and I do not start with the NATO case. The committee has examined the nomination of Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund. The position of Executive Director of the Nordic-Baltic constituency of the International Monetary Fund was announced with a deadline of 24 November 2014. By that date, several highly qualified persons had applied for the post. Thomas Östros had not participated in the regular recruitment process but sought the invitation of Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Thomas Östros application to the position was received only on 5 February 2015, i.e. just over ten weeks after the last application date. Thomas Östros was then nominated by the government as new Executive Director of the Nordic-Baltic constituency of the International Monetary Fund on 26 February 2015. The committee really has no objection to this. However, we point out that, if it becomes very common to appoint someone even though other qualified candidates have applied, and despite the fact that there is an open appointment policy with requirements profiles and job advertisements, this will be undermined. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has also examined documentation from the Innovation Council meetings. The Innovation Council is informal and consists of the Prime Minister, four other ministers and ten advisory members from industry and the scientific community. It is only an advisory body, and there is neither decision-making nor voting. We have previously been dealing with questions about informal bodies. According to the Constitutional Committee, the examination of the documentation of the Innovation Council meetings does not give rise to a statement from the point of view of freedom of the press. The committee notes, however, that there have been cases where a future proposal has been on the agenda of the meeting. The committee would therefore like to stress that, should it be the case that comments and factual information are made and then an ongoing matter is added to the Government Office, they should be documented, in accordance with the requirements for the preparation of dossiers. In addition, the Constitutional Committee has previously noted that documentation from meetings of a more informal nature is valuable, both internally to ensure that there is no uncertainty as to what has been achieved and to facilitate, at a later stage, the examination of the course of events. Mr President, I would like to I will say a few words about the review of the handling of a request for access to calculations within the Ministry of Finance. The notifier had requested to be consulted by the Ministry of Finance's calculations that formed the basis for the distribution of financial reinforcements to municipalities and county councils agreed between the government and the alliance parties in autumn 2015 in the framework of the migration settlement. The Government considered that it was unable to disclose such documents and took this decision on 10 December 2015. However, the decision was not processed until a week later, on 17 December. The committee believes that, in the light of the urgency requirement under the Freedom of the Press Regulation, it is not satisfactory that there should be so much time between a decision being taken on the basis of a request and the processing of the decision. It does not matter that, in this case, the government considered that no documents should be disclosed. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I shall dwell on the committee's examination of the previous government's action on the Memorandum of Understanding with NATO on host country support and so on. This is it. I'm holding it in my hand. I don't know how many people in here have actually read it, but I pulled it out and checked it out a little bit. As you heard Jonas Gunnarsson say, the committee notes that Sweden has already been working with NATO since 1994 in the Partnership for Peace and the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council. Sweden participates in courses and exercises and has hosted such activities. The defence committee, which worked across party boundaries, assumed in its report Defence of Sweden – Stronger Defence for an Insecure Time, Ministry Letter 2014:20, that host country support would be taken into account in defence planning and that the government would promptly take action, including contractual regulations. Despite political considerations, the Host Country Support Agreement, together with the Additional Protocol, constitutes a framework regulation that regulates technical and legal issues. You'll see if you're looking through the deal. It does not provide for further cooperation and does not give NATO the right or the obligation to operate in Swedish territory, but is based on voluntary cooperation between the parties. This will only apply in cases where Sweden first takes a national decision on it. Sweden will continue to decide whether and when NATO activities can take place on Swedish territory and what type of activities it should be. The change brought about by the framework acquis concerns the specific Swedish implementation agreements concluded for each individual activity if and when Sweden decides on such activities. These agreements can be legally made a little simpler and kept shorter thanks to the host country support agreement. The committee considers that there was no obligation for the government to confer with the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs before the decision to accede to the Additional Protocol and to sign the Host Country Support Agreement. Here the committee is united as far as the Left Party. The matter of the government's tasks regarding the broken cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia will be raised by my colleague Andreas Norlén.
i-FrMt3R3oKTbSdeTLhJboBQ	Mr President, I would like to We have come to chapter 3 of the autumn review, Last autumn, the Constitutional Committee carried out a comprehensive review of the government's convocation of the Foreign Affairs Committee. It was a delicate review when the meetings of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs are covered by secrecy. Several of the hearings we had in this context were completely closed. At the meetings of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs, the King is also given access to the information, and the meetings are usually very special. During the spring, we have had three notifications concerning the appointment of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. It has, as many here have been involved, concerned the previous government's handling and Carl Bildt, when they signed parts that led to the host country agreement in the middle of the 2014 election movement without calling in the Foreign Affairs Council. It has concerned the current government and Mrs Wallström's handling when the agreement with Saudi Arabia was broken. It has also concerned the current government's management of the aid to France that Sweden intended to give in to the terrorist attacks in Paris. In conclusion, I can say that we in the KU do not have all the information about the meetings of the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs – what is said and why just a certain matter is raised, throughout all meetings. It is perhaps quite correct that we should not have it, but when it comes to the overall description that the KU made last autumn, we have seen a tendency that the Foreign Affairs Committee is not called in as often anymore. The explanation model we could see was that when Sweden joined the EU and the EU Board came into being, there was a completely different approach to the EU-related issues. In this examination of the three dossiers we have to deal with, I believe that we have landed correctly. But I suspect that similar issues may come back in the future. As I said, it is not always easy to assess what is an issue of foreign policy importance. Another issue raised in this area are various types of appointments in relation to what Marta Obminska was discussing: the nominations for Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund, Director of the School Research Institute and Director General of the Social Insurance Fund. Of course, all three are extremely important, and it is no wonder that one sometimes needs to look at this type of power of appointment. In all three cases, however, we have concluded that the government has done what it is supposed to do and that in principle the committee has no objections. Otherwise, I believe that these are mostly minor comments on public documents and documentation. This is probably so important, but others have highlighted it in the debate.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-284	Mr President, I would like to The Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs plays an important role in the Swedish Constitution. It is an important consultative body between government and opposition, where the Head of State also receives a thorough and thorough review of important foreign affairs. This position is regulated in the form of government. The Constitutional Committee, as Agneta Börjesson explained, did last autumn a review of the change in the use of the Foreign Affairs Board. I'm going to do a rough interpretation of the KU's autumn review. We found that governments of different colours have developed a practice with an interpretation of the rules of government that may be a little too liberal. We have seen a pattern of the Foreign Affairs Council having been called in less and less often for quite a long time. Cases of greater foreign policy importance probably occur more than once each year, but we have seen examples of the Foreign Affairs Council being convened only once a year. In the examination we have carried out, we have looked in particular at the matter of the termination of the cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia. We have made the overall assessment that, given the context of the dismissal and the inflamed discussion of Sweden's relationship with several Arab states, it would have been reasonable for both the Head of State and opposition to have had the opportunity to vent the matter with the government. On the basis of the overall picture that the Constitutional Committee has of the use of the Foreign Affairs Committee, we think it should have been drafted in this case.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-289	Mr President, I would like to I shall dwell on that part of the chapter dealing with the government's data on the broken cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia and the handling of the matter. For the Moderates, other cases have been commented on by Marta Obminska. It is, as you know, about the Memorandum of Understanding on military cooperation with Saudi Arabia concluded in 2005 by the Government of Persson. It was an agreement that was controversial from the start. If I have not miscalculated, this is the fourth time that the agreement and its handling give rise to KU notifications. The memorial remembers that there was great turbulence in early March 2015. There was a big discussion in the media and in society whether the government would terminate the agreement or renegotiate it or what would happen and how, depending on which path the government chose, this would affect Sweden's relations with Saudi Arabia and other parts of the Middle East. Finally, as you know, the government decided to terminate the Memorandum of Understanding with Saudi Arabia. The government decision was taken on 12 March 2015, but it was announced in public a few days earlier. At the same time, the Foreign Minister was to speak at the Arab League summit in Cairo. The statement was cancelled at very short notice at the request of Saudi Arabia. This led to further debate and turbulence, which dealt with the reasons for Saudi action. Was it related to the Memorandum of Understanding or to statements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the state of democracy and human rights in Saudi Arabia? The crisis was sharpened with Saudi Arabia calling home its ambassador. Sweden was also exposed to other diplomatic markings from various countries in the Middle East. Among other things, another country called home its ambassador from Stockholm. Then, of course, the question arises: should the termination of the Memorandum of Understanding with Saudi Arabia have been raised in the Foreign Affairs Council, and should the government have informed and deliberated with the Council on the diplomatic developments that arose with Saudi Arabia and other countries in the Middle East? It is clear that Saudi Arabia is a dominant country in the Middle East, and Sweden's relations with Saudi Arabia thus affect Sweden's political and trade relations also with many other countries in the Middle East. The impact of the termination of the MoU on Sweden's relations with Saudi Arabia and other countries was largely unclear. Concerns were expressed from various quarters that the termination of the agreement would have far-reaching consequences for Sweden's relations with the countries of the Middle East, in different ways and levels. Government form 10, chapter 10. Section 11 states that in all foreign affairs of major importance, the Government shall consult the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs before the decision is taken, if this can be done. The reservation, if possible, is primarily about what is practically possible with reference to the time available. KU's conclusion was unanimous that the termination of the Memorandum of Understanding with Saudi Arabia was a foreign matter of major importance. The Government should have consulted the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs before taking its decision to terminate the agreement. In addition, it is shown in the form of 10 chapters. Section 11 that the Government shall confer with the Swedish Foreign Affairs Board on the foreign policy conditions that may have significance for the Reich as often as necessary. In view of the diplomatic crisis that occurred with Saudi Arabia and other countries in the Middle East, the committee is of the opinion that the government should have informed and consulted with the Foreign Affairs Committee even about this situation. With this, Mr President, I can see that it is a good thing that the Constitutional Committee agrees to give guidelines for the appointment and meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-302	Mr President, I would like to This year we have in the review two interesting cases dealing with governance of government works under the Ministry of Enterprise. A moderate minister, Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, and a Social Democratic, Anna Johansson, are here receiving criticism regarding the governance of government works under the Ministry of Enterprise. Is this, then, mainly due to the shortcomings of these ministers, or is this more due to structural problems in governance? My assessment is that a lot of evidence suggests that this is part of a pattern. We had earlier years to look at the so-called Nuon case, where we had the same kind of problem in terms of governance from the Ministry of Industry. If this observation is correct, it is important to get the dialogue between the Ministry of Industry and works and companies in order. In the case of the Swedish Maritime Administration's procurement of helicopters, no one has questioned the need for new helicopters for rescue operations. I think we are all interested that there is when we go ferry or for similar reasons. However, there are a lot of things that can be questioned about the handling of the case. Some of it may not be discussed by us from the Constitutional Committee. There are a lot of peculiarities in the handling of the case that have aired a lot in the media. The problem from the point of view of the KU is that the procurement has taken place with an agreement without any specific provisions that it applies subject to Parliament's budget decisions and so on, that the procurement has taken place before the Riksdag has dealt with the Government's budget proposal. It is a very central part of Swedish government. I, as an old history teacher, cannot help but observe that during both the Carolinian and the Gustavian autocracy was one of the things that remained, in fact, the parliament's power over such matters. Here a moderate minister has succeeded in something that Karl XI did not manage, and that is an achievement. I would like to relativise that comparison: I do not believe that Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, which I know as a very good person, has sought this, but I think it is the result of a problem of governance between the department and the government. There has been a government dialogue that has been perceived by the government as a governance, that you get orders or okay to do certain things. But from the Ministry of Industry it has been understood as dialogue and information. That is probably the very reason why this has happened. What is remarkable is that the Ministry did not react when press releases and other information about the procurement were sent out before the budget bill. The department should have noticed the error at that time. The responsible minister should probably also have seen that there were different views on what the government dialogue stood for. Therefore, Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd cannot escape criticism in this part either. As regards state aid to municipal airports, State aid to maintain the infrastructure is very important for large parts of Sweden to be accessible. Business and society in large parts of Sweden need flights in order to get to various important meetings. We now have Members who have been allowed to spend nights on trains because flights do not go. It shows the importance of aviation to keep our country together. What happened in 2015 was that the payment of State aid to airports around the country was greatly delayed. It put a lot of airports in great financial trouble, and there was a great pressure from many municipalities at the Ministry of Enterprise that there was something wrong and that something had to be done about it. Even given the great general pressure on the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry, the questions that the Ministry of Economic Affairs put to the Swedish Transport Administration regarding the payment of aid were perceived as ordering, and then we have a case of so-called ministerial rule, although it has not been intentional. For this Anna Johansson cannot escape criticism. Both of these cases, however, are examples of a problem that we have seen in the past. I think it is very important that we do not treat them as individual cases, but now ensure that measures are put in place that prevent repetition of such things.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-315	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has previously stated that informal contacts between the Government Office and the authorities must of course be allowed to take place. The committee has also stated that such contacts should be limited to the exchange of information. In cases relating to the application of law, the exercise of authority against individuals or, as in this case, the exercise of authority against municipalities, any contacts should be formalised and, in addition, documented in order to safeguard the independence of the authorities vis-à-vis the government. As Members of this House well know, the authorities are, in accordance with the form of government, guaranteed independence from the government. It is, as Mr Ekström said, about what we usually call ministerial rule, and we know that it must not occur. In a recent constitutional comment from last year, constitutional experts Thomas Bull and Fredrik Sterzel Sterzel the following about how the form of government should be interpreted in this regard. I'm talking about 12 chapters. Section 2 the form of government. The experts say that what is forbidden is simply expressed that some other authority or one of the superiors interferes with decision-making. And so we will continue a little later on: a statement directly focused on the determination of a particular case may, in all normal cases, be regarded as inappropriate. ..................................................... The investigation which I now intend to dwell on is the matter of the Minister for Infrastructure's involvement in operating aid to airports. This review concerns precisely the question of whether the superior authority the government has interfered with the decision-making of the subordinate authority of the Finnish Transport Administration. That's the question. As indicated by the hearing and as Hans Ekström also mentioned: When the Swedish Transport Administration's employees were questioned by the KU, it was clear that it had been understood that they had received an order from the Ministry of Industry. This order was for operating grants to be paid out immediately to the two airports in Kalmar and Skellefteå. This is also happening. This happens before the work itself has been able to deal with the matter clearly. Among other things, a mandatory notification procedure remains with the European Commission, as operating aid is a grant that can distort competition in the EU's internal market. Of course, at Trafikverket the stress level rises due to this request from the department. The Swedish Transport Administration double-checks with the Ministry if you think that the grant should be paid out immediately and get a positive answer. A manager who is concerned by the matter at Trafikverket makes a number of attempts on the day in question to get in touch with the chief lawyer of the work, but the attempts fail. The payments therefore take place without any reconciliation with the General Counsel. As the committee notes, the Ministry's call for payments to be dealt with urgently had serious consequences. Among the more serious are the fact that it was in breach of EU state aid rules. Although it would not have been the intention of Minister Anna Johansson to influence the Swedish Transport Administration in the exercise of its authority, the committee believes that the Government should have reflected more closely on how the Authority would perceive her call for swift handling. Reasonably, it may not have taken so much imagination to realize that the Swedish Transport Administration could have perceived the Ministry's requests for swift handling as an order for the payment of operating grants to the airports in Kalmar and Skellefteå. The Government has the overall responsibility for what is happening in her department, and when the Ministry brought to her attention that the economy of airports was to say the least problematic, there were obvious reasons for her to follow the matter and also to keep informed of how the communication between the Ministry and the Finnish Transport Administration developed. However, the KU's review has shown that no such measures were taken by the Government. The committee also notes that the requirement for documentation in this case has not been met. In conclusion, the committee therefore believes that Minister Johansson cannot escape criticism. Mr President, I would like to It is the Riksdag that decides on the state's budget and on financial commitments for the state. This means, among other things, that the Government needs the consent of the Riksdag to raise loans or to make other financial commitments for the State. The form of government is clear on this point. The Budget Act, in turn, makes it clear that commercial enterprises may only borrow from the State for the activities of the business administration after special authorisation by the Riksdag. However, as has been shown in the committee's review of the Ministry of Industry's handling of the Swedish Maritime Administration's purchase of helicopters under the leadership of former Minister Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd, the Riksdag on this matter has been overlooked in a remarkable way, for which, in the Committee's view, the responsible Government cannot escape criticism. Having said that, I think that, in the light of the two cases, it can be noted that in the case of the Swedish Maritime Administration, the fault was that the then Minister of State Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd failed to take the necessary measures, while Minister Johansson in the case of the Swedish Transport Administration was actively on the way to start the payments of operating aid to airports. As the committee has found, in the first case, there is a failure, perhaps even several, while in the second case, Minister Johansson was actively acting in a way that, in turn, could not help but be criticised by the KU. Mr President, I would like to I think there is a difference between active action and failure to act. Active action is usually of a more qualified nature than a neglected act.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-331	Mr President, I would like to I note that we have now come through about half our report, and I think we are about on time. Nevertheless, I would like to flag it, Mr President, because my speech can go over by a minute and I would like to apologise in advance for that. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, as is well known, ministerial government is not permitted with government decisions being taken in plenary. However, there seems to be an opportunity for covert ministerial rule, and I would like to dwell on that for a moment. The then government's mining coordinator Christina Lugnet, employed through the Government Office, called several actors to a meeting, including the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the County Administrative Board of Norrbotten and participants from the mining industry. The meeting revealed that the mining companies were dissatisfied with the authorities and permits. As a result of the meeting, decisions were transferred from the officials to the governor. Although no formal decisions appear to have been taken during the meeting, the Constitutional Committee would nevertheless like to remind you that, if a coordinator has had a clearly outward-looking and proactive mission, it can be discussed whether such missions should be carried out within the framework of the Government Office. This cannot be stressed enough. It would be unfortunate if, in future, a practice of ministerial government were developed in practical terms with the help of a specific national coordinator or similar. And speaking of ministerial government, Mr President, as I am sure you know, yesterday yesterday we received an order from the Minister to pay out all operating subsidies to the airports concerned, and the payment was to be made immediately, during the day. ..................................................... The words are not mine, Mr President, but they come from an internal e-mail sent on Tuesday 22 September 2015, where a Head of Unit of the Finnish Transport Administration informed his colleagues of what was expected of the Minister. KU has clarified that representatives of the Ministry of Industry acted on behalf of Minister Anna Johansson. On the other hand, there have been differences of opinion as to what the purpose of the contact was. The Government and the Ministry have stated that the intention was to point out the need to urgently manage operating aid to airports. The responsible authority, on the other hand, has understood that the contact was initiated by the Government in order for state aid to be paid out as soon as possible. The Director General of the Finnish Transport Administration tried several times to reconcile the work's lawyers before the payments were made. Chapter 2 of the form of government Chapter 12. can be seen that no authority, including the Riksdag or the decision-making body of a municipality, may decide how an administrative authority should decide in a specific case on a matter concerning the exercise of authority against an individual or a municipality or on the application of law. In this case, we have found that this is the exercise of authority and that the work has understood that the ministry entered into the authority of the work. This, in turn, has led to serious consequences in terms of the payment of operating aid to airports one month before the processing process was completed and, Mr President, payments were made to two of the airports in breach of EU state aid rules. The Government has not carried out the necessary follow-up by, for example, following the communication between the Ministry and the Finnish Transport Administration. We have also found that the documentation requirements have not been met and that officials at the Ministry have not given written information, even though they have been requested by the Swedish Transport Administration. Mr President, I would like to The issue is therefore extremely badly handled. A united committee therefore criticises the Government in this case. From a minister with high-flying plans, I shall now dedicate the rest of the speech to the Swedish Maritime Administration's purchase of helicopters. Before I go into the details of the matter, it may be of interest to know that a major scandal was revealed in Belgium in the mid-1990s. Several ministers had to resign. The matter concerned bribery in connection with helicopter purchases. One of the companies involved was Agusta, later renamed Agusta Westland. The same company was involved in a new scandal, this time in India. In 2013, the Indian Minister of Defence acknowledged bribery in the case. In April of this year, one of those involved was sentenced to four years in prison by an Italian court. In India, the scandal was named Choppergate. From what has emerged so far, at least in the Constitutional Committee, the Swedish version has been given the name It all began with the Swedish Maritime Administration's intention to buy helicopters. An agreement was signed in October 2012 with Agusta Westland for the purchase of helicopters. The agreement was not conditional on the parliamentary approval of the transaction. A deposit of SEK 250 million has also been paid, despite the fact that the parliament has not yet decided on the state's budget. In this way, the Swedish Maritime Administration has thus entered into an agreement that has pre-empted Parliament's decision on the matter. This, according to the Constitutional Committee, is contrary to Chapter 9. Section 8 the form of government. The review has shown that the Swedish Maritime Administration informed the Ministry of Industry in 2010 and 2011 of the need to buy new helicopters. An email from 12 October 2012 to an official in the Government Office shows that the procurement was concluded. On 1 November 2012, the Government made a decision to amend the regulations for 2012 for the Swedish Maritime Administration to allow the Swedish Maritime Administration to use currency derivative instruments for the purchase of new helicopters for sea rescue and rescue operations. The committee therefore notes that the Government Office was aware at an early stage that the Swedish Maritime Administration wanted to buy new helicopters. The circumstances have prompted the KU to state the importance of proper dialogue with the authorities. There has been conflicting information on the matter as to who said or did what. I think that, Mr President, draws a gleam of ridicule all over the process. It has also been shown that officials at the Ministry of Enterprise have used private e-mail addresses, which has led the committee to say that this can give the impression that it has wanted to evade the principle of public access, which of course would not be acceptable. We agree that Minister Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd cannot escape criticism for the Ministry of Industry's handling of the Swedish Maritime Administration's purchase of helicopters.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-346	Mr President, I would like to That's when we got caught. 4) Some questions about the government's responsibility for administration and the two heavy cases that deal with precisely the infrastructure minister's involvement in operations are given support to airports and the Ministry of Enterprise's management of the Maritime Administration's helicopters. I thought I'd start with the airports. There are several people who have been in on this issue, and it is quite right that it all started with paying attention to an email from a head of unit inside the Swedish Transport Administration who wrote to their employees. According to the e-mail, the Finnish Transport Administration was ordered by the Minister to pay subsidies to the airports concerned. At first sight, it sounds like a serious case of ministerial government if it is the case that an employee in a government work has received a direct order that goes into the pure administration of government. That is why the Constitutional Committee put several direct questions to the Government Office. It turned out that there had been a telephone meeting: four officials from the Government Office had a telephone meeting with the Swedish Transport Administration. What was said from the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry was that it wanted to be dealt with quickly, having received several signals from various airports in the country that they could risk major financial difficulties, perhaps even bankruptcy, if the funds, which were very late in their payment, could not be paid out. The point is that there were new rules for payments, so it took an extraordinary amount of time. In addition, the Finnish Transport Administration had received a new Director General who also, in parentheses, when she was told that this information had requested that everything that was done in the future should be checked with the responsible lawyer. There was quite a lot going on in this. A series of attempts were made by the Finnish Transport Administration to check. They called in to check whether this hasty handling also applied to airports in Skellefteå and Kalmar. Of course it did. At a meeting, it was also a double check, and there too the signal from the Ministry of Industry was that if the work assessed, the work should provide support based on its mission. In the end, it was still that payments were speeded up to a greater extent than the Swedish Transport Administration had planned, and therefore Anna Johansson also receives criticism in this case. I'll go over to the Ministry of Enterprise's handling of the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters. This is probably the matter of scrutiny that I myself regard as the matter where the criticisms in the report are most serious, and it concerns the very high-profile purchase of helicopters by the Swedish Maritime Administration. The Swedish Maritime Administration had to redo the procurement on several occasions, and when the procurement finally took place it was in a way that preceded Parliament's decision on the investment plan and loan framework for the Swedish Maritime Administration. The act is therefore not in accordance with Chapter 9. Section 8 the form of government. It looks as if the Swedish Maritime Administration has tried to inform the Government Office but that the information has not really been reached. There are completely different views on the need for documentation, and the Authority has also perceived the Authority's dialogue as a decision-making forum. In addition to the lack of communication, we also criticise the fact that individual officials have made use of private e-mail addresses in a way that suggests that they wanted to escape the principle of public access. Nor have these messages been registered. Hans Ekström was in his speech that there is something tricky in the governance of the Ministry of Industry. We have two clear reviews here that show that it applies not only to this and the previous government, but also to the past. It is not just Nuon; it also seems that Vattenfall returns in a great many historical reviews. I therefore hope that we may be able to take a slightly greater grip on communication between the Ministry of Industry and the authorities in the future.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-358	Mr President, I would like to In my introduction, I have already raised two issues that are included in this section, and I would like to mention a little more about it, although many have been involved in, among other things, the case of ministerial government directed at the Finnish Transport Administration. I see that part as the most serious remark in this year's review. We can certainly discuss whether it is not the case that the Swedish Transport Administration should have opposed the Minister for Infrastructure's demand for payment. But in this case, the demand for speed was clearly so clearly stated that the Swedish Transport Administration was not able to contact its lawyers. The ministerial rule, as I see it, was obviously intentional. Hans Ekström questioned whether it was intentional. I believe that in this case it was a very clear message that the Swedish Transport Administration received from the Ministry, and it is also completely clear that it was the Minister himself, Anna Johansson, who was the one who took the initiative to contact the Swedish Transport Administration to make payments. As regards the helicopter business, the notification concerned a purchase already made in 2012. However, it was noted last year when the mission review television program criticised the purchase of helicopters for sea rescue carried out by the Swedish Maritime Administration. The agreement was signed by the Swedish Maritime Administration at a time when there was a government decision on the budget. The government's draft budget included the helicopters at the time the agreement was signed. But the Riksdag had not yet decided that the purchase would take place. That was, of course, important. What emerged from the hearing of former Minister Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd was that she had provided that the Swedish Maritime Administration had such a clause when the agreement was signed. In that case, there would have been no problem. But now there was a problem. It was wrong. The fact that there was no control and sufficient control of the Swedish Maritime Administration in this case has been criticised. The hearing by the Swedish Maritime Administration gave me reason to question a great deal about what is happening within the Swedish Maritime Administration. However, it is not the task of the KU to review the authority. It is only how the authority is governed by the government that the KU reviews. That's the part where Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd gets criticism. However, as has been said before, it is an indirect criticism that someone else has not behaved.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-365	Mr President, I would like to When a mel comes up where the minister's orders are written, you react as a KU member. When something like this comes up, I will immediately be awakened, even if I sit in a parliamentary group meeting. I see that at least the President understands my travesting of Ronald Reagan. Seriously, when something like this dives, of course, you bounce to. We have carefully reviewed what has happened. The facts of the case are that officials at the Ministry of Industry have made contact with the Swedish Transport Administration, as my colleagues have previously explained. The Finnish Transport Agency would quickly handle the payments to airports. Then the Government believes that this would not be understood as an order to pay out money. However, as a minister, it must be understood that if one expresses a wish to an authority to do something in a specific matter, not just in general, to speed up its handling, the consequence is that the money is paid out more quickly than it would otherwise have done. Okay, well, even if that's not the case, it's ministerial government in itself to tell an authority how to handle a particular matter. It was not a general directive on urgency, but a specific case. Of course there will be criticism for this. It may well be that it was a perfectly legitimate view that things were going too slowly, or it could be in some other way. But we have an order in Sweden where we do not have ministerial rule. Ministers cannot go into individual cases and govern in different ways – whether it will be faster, slower or which decisions will be taken. More general directives should be provided for the management of public authorities. So there will be a clear criticism from the Constitutional Committee against the Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-370	Mr President, I would like to There are said to be a couple of hundred thousand people following these broadcasts from the Riksdag. If they're still sitting in front of the TV, or if they've turned on the coffee, they're naturally wondering, "When's the highlight?" This is the highlight, Mr President. This is the most exciting and the most serious thing we are dealing with today in this half-day debate. Why? Yes, it is about the government's responsibility for administration and for ministerial government. This is a lack of ministerial government in one case and a completely wrong ministerial government in the case of Minister Anna Johansson. My colleagues have explained the details several times, and I really do not have the nerve to repeat it all. It would be tempting a little bit for confidence and patience. But the bottom line is that in one case, with Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, the work did not work properly. It is not up to us to examine the work, but I can note that when the work's representatives with the Director-General at the head were at a hearing in the KU, it was not satisfactory, I can reach that grade. Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd would have intervened and steered this up in a different way. She shouldn't have been so passive. The second case, with Anna Johansson, was quite the opposite. As far as we've been able to trace, the initiative came from her. The Minister for Infrastructure wanted faster management of funds to airports. That's when she told me. Anyone who listens to this debate may wonder: But what is the problem? Shouldn't the ministers get things done? In Sweden it works in the way that the entire government together as a collective gives orders to its works. Ministers will govern, but they will do so together – and they will do so, for example, through regulations, regulatory letters and government decisions of various kinds. But when an individual minister tackles an issue and pushes on, it becomes ministerial government, as we in Sweden say. In other countries, ministerial government is excellent and shows that ministers are capable of action. In Sweden it is contrary to our constitution. That's why the KU becomes extra hard in the voice when Anna Johansson is guilty of ministerial government. Therefore, she cannot escape criticism for her actions on this issue. As the last speaker in this debate, I would like to emphasise this. This is serious, and it's more than a beginner's mistake when you've been around for so long.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-379	Mr President, I would like to I'll cut to the chase. The choice did not go as the two traditional blocs wanted. The Sweden-friendly alternative became the third biggest party and again got the role of wave master. In addition, it was greatly reinforced. The government's budget fell. Instead of resigning or announcing new elections, as promised, they had to resort to thieving and rascaling to make the existing order last. The so-called December Agreement was a fact. Surprisingly, the same parties that made the agreement – albeit with the good memory of the Left – have briefly stated that they see this as a political agreement just any one and that they do not intend to examine it and thereby themselves. However, this approach does not have to be to take for truth without a priori, but the KU's conclusion could just as well be seen as an extension and an outlet for the desperate power cartel of sick leaves. In fact, the December agreement provided for an alternative regulatory framework intended to extend over several terms of office. We very much regret that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not wanted to test the position of this parallel regulatory framework on, among other things, the form of government and the parliamentary order. At the very least, this should not be in line with the intentions of the current formal regulatory framework. This assessment is also shared by prominent researchers in constitutional law who have particularly stressed that an examination would be desirable, not least because the agreement was concluded outside the Riksdag in an attempt to direct the work of the Riksdag. We believe that a consequence of the December agreement was that the Assembly from which the Government had to seek support for its policies and budget was effectively limited from 349 to 279 Members. Thus, the government no longer responded to the will of the people as expressed by general elections. This, in turn, should mean a change in constitutional order. In addition, the December agreement was developed as a hafsverk without the detailed investigation work normally resulting from, for example, the preparation of an ordinary legislative proposal, and its consequences are and thus remain rather unclear. In addition, of course, the voters were not given the opportunity to take a position on the December agreement. But now that no review was made, the Constitutional Committee cannot satisfactorily investigate whether and to what extent the Prime Minister should instead have made use of the tools offered by the government form when a government does not have support for its policy in parliament, such as resigning, opening a new round of Presidents or announcing an extraordinary election. Irregular arrangements, such as the December agreement, are now in danger of taking on an ever greater and more prominent role in the future, possibly with even more far-reaching violations of the ordinary acquis. What happens, for example, on the day one block promises not to demand any responsibility from the other, no matter what madness it may have in mind, then, of course, in exchange for the second block promising to show an equally forgiving attitude on the day the roles may be changed? At least we will soon be able to remove most of Chapter 13. the form of government into the waste heap of history. I think that would be regrettable. By refraining from examining the December agreement, the Constitutional Committee strengthens its legal position and tends to confer unjust legitimacy on it and similar future deals, we believe. This type of irregular arrangement is in danger of falling into a constitutional grey area, which we believe must be in direct contradiction with the intentions of a constitution. But since power is usually not something you deserve or get, but rather something you let go of yourself, I suppose nothing is sacred when it comes to trying to cling to it, not even the fundamentals on which our whole society rests. It is distressing, Mr President. But not everything is pitch black, Mr President. The KU's work can actually make positive impressions. An example of this concerns former Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson. Not only has the KU done solid work on several occasions to review her activities – there was also a period of uncertainty as to who in the government was the Deputy Prime Minister and who was the Deputy Prime Minister. The KU has now stated that it is important that the Prime Minister informs the Riksdag who will enter the Prime Minister's place when he is prevented from serving. The information should also be communicated to the public and to the Head of State. It was gratifying to see and be among the mildly received by the Prime Minister when he overly presented his new government in connection with the transformation of the government. It is usually said that you can't teach old dogs to sit, but after that show I don't think even the most hardened moderate can come to report him for this particular something more. Mr President, I would like to Several of this year's review cases have concerned various statements made by the Government in the media. In most cases, the KU has stated that statements should be made with caution. Among other things, Minister Anders Ygeman's statements regarding judgments in the Gothenburg District Court related to terrorism are pointed out. Of course, it is not surprising that the Minister for the Interior makes himself available to the media in such a context. However, KU notes that Anders Ygeman could have refrained from commenting on, among other things, the evaluation of evidence in the individual case or at least had waited until the judgment became final. By further questioning a prosecutor's decision not to request a person in custody, Anders Ygeman has spoken out in a way that conflicts with the purpose of Chapter 12. Section 2 the form of government. If we also consider the Frontex case, which we described a little earlier here, it must be said that Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman has had a proper and well-deserved extension in this year's review. On the other hand, KU has chosen not to criticise Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg for the statements he has made in Dagens Industri. The justification is that they should most be seen as statements in the general debate. This is not the purpose of Chapter 12. Section 2 the form of government that has been in danger, without it for a democracy perhaps even more important the rule of Chapter 2. 2 § that no one may be forced by the public to make known their political views. When Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg in Dagens Industri expressed that Svenskt N häringsliv must openly disclose his contacts with and his approach to the Swedish Democrats, it is not even possible with the best faith to make it possible for the Government's most specific statement about directly named actors to have the character of a contribution in the general debate. It is also clear from the preamble to the article that the Government must clearly have expressed itself in such a way that it was perceived by the surroundings as that the contacts with the Swedish democrats are in danger of impairing the business relationship with the government. In our opinion, the only reasonable interpretation of the statement is that there was a threat of sanctions in the event that the life of Svenskt N is not in compliance with the minister's decree. Mr President, I would like to Let us raise our eyes a little and make some more everyday comparisons in analogy with the arguments put forward by the Council of State and the majority of the committee! If I go into a well-known fast food chain and order the most famous on the menu and announce that I am going to pay the stipulated price for the food, should it be seen as that I just ordered a Big Mac & Co for about 69 crowns, or should the cashier understand that it was probably just a post in the general debate where I explained that I am probably hungry and want something to eat, but anything and at any price? If I have a car and it is explicitly stated in the manual that it has to be refuelled with petrol, can I then, given that, according to the Government Office, this call is apparently synonymous with a recommendation or a general statement that some kind of fuel, not so carefully which, probably needs to be added to the vehicle and then demand compensation for the guarantee if something goes wrong? No, of course not. If I do something stupid, I will of course have to take the consequences of my actions. The corresponding should or must – or call it what you want – of course apply to everyone. The Swedish Democrats note that Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, through his way of expressing himself, has clearly pointed out both addressees and consequences when it comes to others. Then it is only right and reasonable for him to be clearly addressed about the consequences of his own actions. As a whole, he may be considered to have acted in a manner incompatible with Chapter 2. Paragraph 2 of the form of government should therefore have been criticised for this. (Andre VICE TALMANNEN: I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the speaking time used exceeded the time reported by more than 50%. )
i-196d2d9734bc6729-399	Mr President, I would like to I would like to raise two issues. One relates to what the Prime Minister has said on the question of replacing the Prime Minister in the work of the Government and on the question of Deputy Prime Minister in the government that was formed in October last year. The Prime Minister was clear at the hearing and clearly stated that the information on these conditions should have been better. The committee also believes that the information should have been clearer. What happened in the transformation of the government that is now only a few weeks back was that the Prime Minister was clearer and gave full information on how to resolve the appointment issues in the event that the Prime Minister himself cannot lead formal government meetings or, for example, as a result of foreign travel, cannot handle the preparation of questions in government work. We believe it was valuable that this matter was examined, valuable that we made our position and, of course, very valuable that the Prime Minister immediately clarified his direction. Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Eriksson mentioned the December agreement, on which the Swedish Democrats have a special opinion. Like many others, I have received a new book that I now hold up, Negotiate or DÖ – December agreement and Swedish democracy in change. It is a work written by two political scientists and a journalist from Dagens Nyheter. It's a very easy-to-read work, I have to say. The authors are Professor Bjereld, Karin Eriksson at Dagens Nyheter and Jonas Hinnfors at the University of Gothenburg. I would like to mention what is mainly linked to what Professor Hinnfors writes. I do so because the statement by Fredrik Eriksson on the special opinion may appear, which he did not say, to be a unanimous view in scientific circles that the December agreement is contrary to the Constitution. Professor Hinnfor's chapter places emphasis on the fact that both the constitution and the actual parliamentary work in Sweden have been based for decades on the fact that we usually have minority governments. He stresses that the December agreement as it was presented is no different from the rules on how a prime minister is approved by the Riksdag and how the rules of censure are. One can say that the absolute majority is the criterion that applies. But under that criterion there is great freedom of movement in practice to apply the principles of parliamentarism. Parlamentarism is also a form of government that has the advantage of being more changeable. One can start from the situation in a parliament and find solutions to both the question of government formation and how to then make decisions. According to Professor Hinnfors, what was in the December agreement is essentially based on previous practices and with some exception really no news. There are, for example, certain agreements on substantive issues. This also applies to the practice that has been applied since 1996, he points out, on how the Parliament adopts draft budgets from the government. It is a statement that, as long as a government is sitting, it can count on the adoption of its draft budgets. Similarly, it should not be possible for an opposition or a constellation party to break away parts of a budget that a minority government has provided. The whole agreement is an outflow of principles that, according to him, are most necessary when we have the electoral systems we have with exact proportionality over the 4% barrier, have as many parties as we now have and where the order of magnitude looks like it does and as it has done since, for example, 2010 but also during the situation in 1991-1994. Perhaps I am a little influenced by my previous role as President. The only point not addressed by Professor Hinnfors is that, in a way, the December agreement excluded an independent examination and work by the President on the government issue. Maybe you could think about that. However, in the groundwork when the President's office was set up with the direction it has in the one-chamber parliament, the opportunity – yes, closest to the obligation – for the President to be able to independently examine the question of government formation was still there. I can recommend the text. I read it and thought that the position we in the Constitutional Committee have taken was a good one. It was a good thing we didn't go into more detail. The position we expressed was that this agreement is outside the constitutional framework. That was a good point of view. In fact, it is quite striking in Professor Hinnfor's argument that the system of the December agreement was not really an undemocratic problem. I read in p. 297: Democracy can be defined in many ways. However, if we believe in undemocratic terms that the December agreement deviated from Swedish democratic tradition, the answer is unequivocally no.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-410	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying, on the subject of the position of Deputy Prime Minister, that my party colleague, Marta Obminska, will say a few words in a moment. As a Member of Parliament, I do not represent the Riksdag as a whole, and therefore I do not formally meet with the constitutionally stated prohibition for parliament and government to decide how courts should judge or how administrative authorities should decide in specific cases in matters concerning the exercise of authority against individuals or against municipalities, or in matters relating to the application of law. I'm an individual. I'm not the Riksdag when I go outside. As an individual Member of Parliament, therefore, there is nothing in the Constitution that forbids me to make inappropriate statements, such as commenting on court rulings before the judges have gained legal force or comment publicly on and interfering with how certain legislation should be interpreted by authorities. However, it can of course have other and boring consequences for me as a Member of Parliament, as well as for other Members of Parliament who get to grips with interpreting judgments before they have gained legal force. If we do this in a stupid or careless way, we can be punished in different ways, and I mean by the voters. But the difference is that if a government minister speaks in the same inappropriate way it is considered to be done on behalf of the government, and then there is a risk that the government's statement will conflict with the government's ban on the government interfering in the application of law in individual cases. The independence of the courts and administrative authorities is a cornerstone of our constitutional and democratic governance. The committee has repeatedly said that, like all other citizens, ministers have the right to make statements in different contexts, but that they should show the utmost restraint in expressing their views on legal decisions in individual cases, since such statements may be perceived as attempts to influence the judgment of the courts or the decision-making of the authorities. In the current review case, where Minister Gabriel Wikström takes a clear stand in a Twitter message for Jönköping District Court's non-final judgment in the so-called midwife case, a united committee therefore considers that the Government's statement conflicts with the purpose of the 11th chapter of the government form. 3 §. Mr President, I would like to Another investigation concerns the statements made by the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Interior on the grounds that the Gothenburg District Court sentenced two men for terrorist crimes to life imprisonment. There was obviously a great media interest in getting government representatives to comment on the judges. However, Minister Ygeman went too far when he went on to comment on the court's evaluation of evidence in the individual case. The government said, "Looking at evidence and the seriousness of the crime, it's not unreasonable." Where is it when he comments? Well, the evidence is the video that showed and documented the beheadings. What was not unreasonable, then, was the punishment of life imprisonment. The valuing comment could have been abandoned by the Government when the judges had not gained legal force. In addition, they were likely to be appealed to a higher court, as was the case. In the process that was expected, there was already a clear statement from the Government. Therefore, according to the committee, the statement by the Minister for the Interior also comes here in conflict with the purpose of Chapter 11. Section 3 the form of government. When it comes to the Prime Minister's statement, it is true that it is also based on life sentences, but the Prime Minister's conclusion has a more general meaning. It is an important signal from the rule of law: it is not okay to go down and commit crimes against humanity in other countries. The committee therefore considers that the statement cannot be understood as meaning that the Prime Minister has wanted to influence the decision of the courts and that the statement does not in any other way conflict with the purpose of the form of government. On one more matter, the committee considers that Minister Ygeman could have refrained from speaking on a case-by-case basis. This concerns the prosecutor's decision to set a person free instead of asking for the person to be detained for several times exposing EU migrants to threats and violence. In TV4's News, the Government says that he thinks the police have done a good job but that, with reference to the relapse rate, he questions the prosecutor's decision. According to the committee, the statement on the prosecutor's decision conflicts with the purpose of Chapter 12. Section 2 the form of government. Finally, I would like to say something about the statement by the former Minister for Climate and the Environment on the legal situation as regards banned seabed paint. One might think that this matter is over-played – the Government has left the government, and history of the toxic bottom color of the Minister for the Environment's family boat has long been thrashed through in the media. But the KU's review does not have the ultimate aim of setting up a government minister, but the aim is to contribute to the development of government work and contribute to an even more well-oiled and, not least, constitutionally obedient government machinery. Although the committee cannot therefore see that the then Minister, Åsa Romson, would have intended to influence the application by authorities of the current regulations for seabed paint, she should, according to the committee, have refrained from publicly expressing how the rules within her own area of responsibility would be applied by the responsible authorities. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, a reflection that can be made after my examination of these matters is that ministers – both new and old – do well to familiarise themselves carefully with the constitutional provisions on the independence of courts and administrative authorities.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-424	Mr President, I would like to S tatsråden Anders Ygeman and Gabriel Wikström's statements on judgments that have not gained legal force, I have already commented on in my introduction, and several have subsequently also commented on them. They are inappropriate statements because they may affect the continued judicial review. That is why the KU has clearly and unanimously criticised the statements made by the Ministers of State. I would like to touch on what Fredrik Eriksson mentioned in his opening of the debate on this chapter. It is a question of the agreement, and Fredrik Eriksson believes that we in the KU should have examined its legal status. I believe that we in the Constitutional Committee have done – hence the conclusions we have drawn. The December agreement has no state law status; it was a political agreement without state law status, and therefore the agreement could also be broken without any legal consequences. Of course, it may have had political consequences, which are, of course, an important part in the future, but these are not legal consequences. It is important to separate these.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-427	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words on the matter of the Foreign Minister and the statements on extrajudicial executions. The background to this was a large number of knife attacks in Israel, preferably against civilian Israelis, which took place almost daily. There was an interpellation debate on this at the end of last year where the Foreign Minister made the statements on extrajudicial executions. It created another crisis with Israel at the highest political level; both the Prime Minister of Israel and the Prime Minister of Sweden became involved in this. Of course, the Constitutional Committee does not have the task of examining the substance of the policy. On the other hand, we have the task of looking at how the Minister for Foreign Affairs is dealing with his office. A foreign minister and foreign policy are created quite a lot by statements, and although it is important for all ministers what they say, it is of course particularly important for a foreign minister. And that is of course particularly important in very sensitive issues, as most of the Middle East issues are. In this case, we have noted that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has mixed some of what she has said. She has addressed the principles of international law in general and has mixed this with a concrete case. To mix in this way has been misunderstood and also created misunderstandings– it is difficult to know what applies when. We say that the foreign minister's statements should be worded in such a way that they do not lead to misunderstandings or contradictory interpretations, but this has happened in this case. That is why the Minister for Foreign Affairs is being criticised by the Constitutional Committee.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-431	Mr President, I would like to In the discussion on Chapter 5, I will address a number of subjects that stand out more than others. One such topic is the Prime Minister and the information he gave about who was his Deputy Prime Minister. In common language, it means that you also replace the person you are vice for. It was not the Prime Minister's intention when he said that Åsa Romson was his Deputy Prime Minister. We have looked at this and have seen that he has not committed any formal error. The minister who was the oldest in office, Margot Wallström, would go in and replace him for the event he was prevented from carrying out his mission. However, not many people knew this; when the committee examined the matter, it turned out to be a very limited body who knew. I do not want to go into how many people knew about this, but the number was extremely limited. You could say that much. At the hearing of the Prime Minister, he hovered on the case at the direct question of the King, who is Head of State in Sweden, knowing about this. The Prime Minister said he was starting from that. Even at the press conference that took place immediately afterwards, where I was present, he did not know if the king was informed. However, the Government Office was then able to announce that it had informed the king, however 17 days after the Prime Minister made the statement that Åsa Romson was Deputy Prime Minister. The Constitutional Committee is not satisfied with this, and neither was the Prime Minister. He answered a direct question that the information should have been clearer and better. The committee also takes the view that this is the case. We believe that the information on who was his replacement should have been clearer. It goes without saying that if something dramatic happens that causes the Prime Minister to fail to fulfil his mandate, there must be no confusion as to who goes in his place. We have two cases – we have already touched on them – where the Minister commented on sentences that have not gained legal force. Minister of Health Gabriel Wikström has spoken out about a sentence that did not win legal force, and we have found that there is a conflict with Chapter 11. Section 3 the form of government. Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman has also made statements that conflict with the same paragraph. With this Anders Ygeman disappears out of our papers. There have been three complaints and three criticisms about him. This is serious. You can't go in there and comment on a sentence that hasn't gained legal force. Then there is Åsa Romson and her boat color. It's easy to pull the smilbands for her and think it didn't turn out so good. No, it did not work out well, and the Constitutional Committee's task is not to smile a little and say that she did not do so well in the media, but to make it clear that the then Minister for Climate and the Environment spoke in the present case about the interpretation of the applicable law when it came to a boat colour. The statement was made in connection with a newspaper interview and related to answers to questions about the bottom color of her and her partner's boat and their view of the current regulations, which is of course a regulation for which she as Minister is responsible. The Government should have refrained from giving its opinion on that. Then there is the question of Mrs Wallström and her four statements that are sprawling. Four times during an interpellation debate and in newspaper interviews, she spoke about the government's attitude to extrajudicial executions. The statements cannot be reconciled. If you try to unite them, you do so by saying that they talk about different things – general observations and a special observation. You can obviously misunderstand that. The whole world, with the major media companies BBC, CNN and so on, understood that Israel was being criticised for carrying out extrajudicial executions, even though Margot Wallström denied that she had spoken out on this. Now foreign policy is created not least, and above all, by performanceative statements, that is to say, doing by saying. You pronounce something, and at the moment you pronounce it, it becomes Swedish politics. At the hearing, Margot Wallström said that her posts on Twitter, as well as her predecessor's posts on Twitter, are performanceal statements. The committee says that the statements include principles of international law in general and in a concrete case of every other. The statements relate to issues that may be sensitive to, among other things, foreign states, where the outside world may have different views. The recent statements have obviously been misunderstood. Not least were those of Israel misunderstood, who perceived it as saying that Israel had committed extrajudicial executions, although she later denied that she had said so – but still a little later she said that they had committed extrajudicial executions. Obviously, it had been misunderstood. In the light of the specific demands made on statements by the Minister responsible for foreign policy, the committee stresses the importance of the foreign minister's statements being formulated in such a way that they do not lead to misunderstandings or give rise to conflicting interpretations.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-442	Mr President, I would like to I would like to dwell on the same point that the previous speaker raised towards the end of his speech, namely the examination of the Foreign Minister's statement on extrajudicial executions. We note in the review that the statements are in a rather traditional, Swedish foreign policy line and in itself do not constitute any news for the Swedish political discourse on the issue. We have, among other things, looked at how the previous foreign ministers have spoken on the same types of matters in relation to the same region on earth. Clearly, what has been said in relation to international law is no wonder. It can also be assumed that extrajudicial executions are in the direction of danger in the event of conflicts such as these. It's a conflict that's infected and severe. Many people have an interest in misunderstanding and creating politics out of things that are not politics. It goes without saying that the Minister responsible for these matters has a special responsibility. The committee also notes this in its examination. The Committee's position is essentially a statement. There is not much of a criticism or of the view that it would be malevolently carried out by one of our ministers. That is most of all what I would like to point out. However, we see the need to be careful with the words.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-446	Mr President, I would like to One of the cases that was the subject of a hearing with Prime Minister Stefan Löfven concerned the distribution of responsibilities for horizontal EU issues within the government. The reason why a notification has been received is that no EU minister was appointed in the formation of the government. The press conference announced that EU issues were under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and therefore under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time, however, the government's website showed that it was the Prime Minister who was responsible for EU affairs. However, since it was the subject of a hearing, I will say a few words on this matter. What was shown was that responsibility for horizontal issues was shared between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was responsible for administrative and legislative matters of a non-horizontal nature, and the Council of State Committee, which was responsible for administrative and legislative issues relating to integration issues of a horizontal nature. In the area of the Prime Minister's Committee, there was also an appointment to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström to prefer legislative matters in the Prime Minister's place on changes to the EU treaties. The problem was that this assignment was different from previous appointments, which had exactly the same wording as the overall responsibility for the Council of State Committee on horizontal issues. The Constitutional Committee has now examined this. We conclude that it is first and foremost up to each government and ultimately the Prime Minister to choose their organisation and how to share responsibility among ministers. However, we believe it is important that the Rules of Procedure are clear and in line with what is said both in the instructions for the Government Office and in any appointments. We also expressed the need to review and change this. In view of the fact that the Prime Minister has now appointed an EU minister, we can only say from the committee that it will hopefully be much clearer in the future who is responsible for the European issues in particular. In that sense, we are satisfied.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-451	Mr President, I would like to As my colleague, Maria Abrahamsson, said, I will dwell on a matter. The name Deputy Prime Minister has been used in different contexts for the person whom the Prime Minister has appointed as deputy under Chapter 6. Section 10 first but no form of government, even if Deputy Prime Minister is not dealt with in government form one. Also in the Prime Minister's Committee, which includes the Prime Minister's Office, its own memo 2014:1 says that the Prime Minister's deputy sometimes uses the term " Vice Prime Minister". At the formation of the government in 2014, incoming Prime Minister Stefan Löfven reported in the Riksdag Chamber that Åsa Romson was Minister of State, Deputy Prime Minister and Head of the Ministry of the Environment. However, no statement that the Prime Minister had appointed a deputy according to the form of government has been submitted to the Riksdag. That former Minister Åsa Romson was called Deputy Prime Minister without being the Prime Minister's deputy became known to us MPs and the public via media in the summer of 2015, when Prime Minister Stefan Löfven became acutely ill. The committee notes that no formal errors have been made, as the Prime Minister's deputy, as Mr Skånberg said, is the minister who has been a minister for the longest time unless a specific decision has been taken. If two or more ministers have the same seniority, their seniority will be determined after their age. The committee would, however, like to stress the importance of the fact that there should also be no doubt as to who would replace the Prime Minister if he or she were prevented from doing so. The order in which other ministers enter if the Prime Minister is prevented from attending must be clearly understood, not least in a crisis situation. By giving the title of Deputy Prime Minister a different meaning than it had before, for example during the alliance government for a long time, which, moreover, does not entirely correspond to the usual meaning of the word, there is a risk of a gap between the expectations of the environment and the order that actually applies. The review has revealed, as Tuve Skånberg said, that only a narrow circle had been explicitly informed of who was actually a deputy. There has obviously been reason to at least inform the President of what it really was like some time after the formation of the government. The Prime Minister has said during our hearing that the information could have been better. The committee also says that the information should have been clearer. An appropriate arrangement may be for a prime minister in connection with the formation of the government to inform the Riksdag who is replacing the Prime Minister if he or she is unable to do so. It is natural that this information should also be communicated to the Head of State, that is to say, the King. This information should also be easily accessible to the public. If circumstances change, that information should of course be provided. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that it is clear that Prime Minister Löfven has taken on board the issues and scrutiny of the Constitutional Committee. During the press conference on the formation of the government, he stressed that Minister Isabella Lövin was appointed Deputy Prime Minister but not Deputy Prime Minister.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-458	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by briefly informing our listeners that this speech will be about the current government and previous government dealing with immigration policy in particular. There are few issues in Swedish politics that have historically been as controversial as immigration and the Swedish reception of refugees. Let me therefore give a brief background to why, in my view and in our view, it has become so wrong. During the post-war period, Sweden had a great need for labour immigrants who together with us contributed to better prosperity and the continued construction of the Swedish folk home, which had then begun. During the post-war period, immigration was in many ways a success story for Sweden. People who came here got a job. They learned the language and took advantage of the culture. It should be added that those who came here often came from other European countries that in many ways resemble Sweden. From arrival in Sweden until they got to work, it could often be a couple of three days. Most of it worked basically well – and this was long before current integration policies had seen the light of day. But in the mid-70s something changed in Swedish immigration policy, which in the long term also changed this country in its foundations. During a Social Democratic government, after a government public investigation, a decision was made to abandon the previous immigration policy, which served us so well and built on the principle that people who come to Sweden should also become part of the majority society. The so-called Immigrant Investigation submitted its final report in 1973. It was strongly influenced by the side of the debate that had advocated cultural pluralism and rejected precisely an assimilation policy. The final report came to form the basis of a government bill adopted by the Parliament in the mid-70s, 1975, and which brought about revolutionary changes in Swedish immigration policy. The guidelines for the new immigration policy were summarised in the objectives of equality, freedom of choice and cooperation. And it was a rejection of the previously well-functioning assimilation policy. The cultural background of immigrants would not only be recognised but also promoted. Today we have come to terms with this policy. We can see a country that has been torn apart more and more. We can see how insecurity is growing around the country and how it is formed more and more insecure suburbs. Mr President, I would like to 40 years have passed since this change. But here we are. After 40 years of failed immigration and refugee policy, this ended up with us in the Constitutional Committee. What exactly has been examined by the Constitutional Committee? At first, let me disappoint those of you who listen a little. The Constitutional Committee has not reviewed everything that has happened over these 40 years. Whether political decisions have been good or bad is basically not something that the Constitutional Committee should assess in its review. Our task is, and has been so in this review as well, to look at the purely formal management of refugee and immigration policy. Our constitutions and practices contain regulations and guidelines on how ministers should behave and express themselves and how government decisions should be made. There are provisions on how the government should manage its governance of authorities and on the powers of the Prime Minister and the Minister of State. It is in relation to this that we have examined the current government and previous government's handling of refugee policy and immigration policy. Unlike the other parties in the committee, we believe that both the previous government and the current government deserve criticism from a constitutional point of view. Mr President, I would like to In the form of government, there is a requirement of objectivity. In short, it can be explained by the fact that the Minister should express himself objectively. They're not supposed to lie. For a long time it should have been quite clear to most people who have listened to the Swedish immigration policy debate that both prime ministers, both present and previous, and various ministers, have done anything but make a factual statement on the issue at hand. Instead of arguing objectively from this pulpit, the Prime Minister has called his political opponents all sorts of ugly things without even blinking. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's tone is not unique to him but is in some way symptomatic of several government representatives in both the present and the previous government. In our reservation, we describe a number of cases where it is clear that the government's handling of the refugee disaster and immigration policy has not been right in the constitutional sense. Let me mention some of the criticism we are highlighting here. As far as the previous government is concerned, it must be considered clear from the outset that it was aware that migration flows actually increased. Even conscious reforms aimed at increasing immigration to Sweden were carried out. We all remember then Minister Billström's warning words about the volume. We all remember the criticism he suffered because of this. And we all remember Fredrik Reinfeldt open your hearts. It was so eager to increase immigration here that it shortened referral periods and ignored the warnings that came from the consultation bodies. Nevertheless, a majority in the Constitutional Committee chose not to call Reinfeldt to the committee to answer for his actions. We believe that the government of Reinfeldt's handling of the issue of immigration for eight years contributed to the negative development of society which then came to adopt unacceptable proportions under the current government. Mr President, I would like to Nor has the current government's external monitoring function been satisfactory. If the flows of migrants moving towards and through Europe had been seriously examined, it would have been clear that the influx of migrants into our country would go from already unsustainable levels to almost a systemic collapse. Short preparation times cannot be excused during a period in which a long-known and clearly anticipated disaster is completed. Madam President, I would like Serious is also the abuse that took place on municipal self-government when the government forced through the bill A joint responsibility for the reception of new arrivals. It obliges municipalities to accept refugees regardless of popular support or practical opportunities to do so. The bill would never have had to be presented if the government had had the necessary preparedness or if the system had been arranged in such a way that the pure social tourism that migration to Sweden often constitutes would not have been allowed. In this context, I would like to remind you that Morgan Johansson has stated that this coercive measure should rather be seen as a strengthening of municipal self-government, which is clearly contrary to both common sense and the Council of Law. Another, completely useless, minister is Magdalena Andersson. The autumn budget for 2016 was heavily underfunded, which led to the presentation of an additional amending budget with a shortened period of exercise shortly thereafter. This happened despite the fact that the Finance Minister and the other government should have been well aware of the shortcomings of the ordinary budget and where developments pointed out. Madam President, I would like I'm going to round off the subject of people who should never have been ministers to talk about Stefan Löfven. When asked if there is a ceiling for how many refugees Sweden can receive, the Prime Minister has answered in the media: We will receive according to the conventions we are bound by. ..................................................... At the open hearing of the Constitutional Committee, the Prime Minister refused to reply to what these conventions were. The government has now, apparently reluctantly, reduced the possibility of entering Sweden. It must be understood that, after all, there is a ceiling on how many refugees and immigrants Sweden can receive. So Stefan Löfven cannot account for what conventions we are violating, or he has simply lied when it comes to reception. Madam President, I would like The former party secretary of the Swedish Democrats not very long ago stood in this House and made a noble speech on a completely different matter. I shall therefore refer to him when I now summarise both the current and previous governments' handling of immigration policy: this is the day of shame.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-479	Madam President, I would like We have come to the part of the review that perhaps more than I thought would be difficult. I note that it has been comprehensive. The committee asked many questions. We also received extensive answers, both in writing and orally. I would like to emphasise that the matter is about the government's handling of refugee policy and not immigration policy, as Jonas Millard said. And it is about constitutional handling. The government has made up to 70 decisions, directly related to the management of the refugee situation. As far as the preparation of proposals is concerned, the committee has not found any reason to make any critical comments. We have not found that any formal errors have been made. The large refugee reception in the autumn of 2015 was the largest in many years and meant great efforts on the social apparatus. The size was difficult – I would say impossible – to predict. And it will continue to have an impact for many years to come. What the KU will examine in relation to these events is how the government, which has the ultimate responsibility for the country, can handle these kinds of challenges and how it has managed to implement the same. The committee notes that, from the outset, the current government took measures relating to the reception of refugees, for example in the field of education and housing, but also to more thorough measures to improve the establishment. The initiatives at EU level were also taken by the previous government but intensified under the current government. The committee sees no reason to make any critical comments on the work of governments within the EU from our point of view. When the refugee situation gradually escalated in autumn 2015, it was increasingly a matter of dealing with a crisis-like situation. The KU notes that there has been preparation within the Government Office for dealing with crisis situations. Several crisis exercises have been carried out, which is a positive thing. The Prime Minister has chosen to strengthen emergency preparedness by having a collective responsibility for order, security and emergency preparedness under the Minister for the Interior. And the Strategic Coordination Group, which consists of State Secretary from the relevant departments, held 28 meetings in the last quarter of 2015. The KU's position argues on the importance of taking rapid action in a crisis situation. However, it is also important that there is time for preparation and consideration, although practice allows the preparation requirement to be flexible and that preparation can be faster if there are urgent circumstances. The KU's investigation did not provide sufficient evidence to suggest that the Government and its Office have worked slowly to resolve the problems raised by the situation. From the government and Sweden there has always been an effort to stand up in an internationally strained situation. And there was, and there is, support in public opinion to contribute. The many efforts of civil society, the church, municipalities and study associations are an expression of this. From the many documents contained in the KU's documentation, it emerges, among other things, that the issue of border control has been prepared for some time and has been the subject of many trade-offs, both in the assessment of the situation with the relevant authorities and in the political discussions that took place in the run-up to the agreement on migration policy concluded on 23 October. Although there has been an opportunity for the government to decide on border controls in the past, it is not difficult to understand why it waited for the longest time before the decision was taken. For border controls would have a major impact on the daily lives of many people. This applies not least to the thousands who commute between Sweden and Denmark. The Swedish Government has been one of the most active and influential in the work to create a better order in Europe, in order for all EU countries to assume their joint and several responsibility for the reception of refugees. Here in Sweden, a large number of authorities, municipalities and other actors have been involved and worked together to deal with the situation. During the examination, the committee has reached a point of view that we want to take forward and draw the attention of the government, not least for the sake of the committee itself. When these kinds of crisis situations arise, it facilitates the subsequent review and follow-up of important oral contacts, such as between State Secretary and Head of Government, being documented in at least some simple form, for example through logbook notes. Madam President, I would like There will now be further reviews, partly by the Swedish National Audit Office, and partly through the review that the government itself has requested – the government's own investigator is Gudrun Antemar. But it is my firm belief that the government has largely led the country through this great crisis situation in a way that one can expect from a good government. Madam President, I would like With this, I believe that this chapter of the KU review can also be added to the file.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-494	Madam President, I would like We are now discussing the KU's review of, in particular, the management of the refugee crisis in autumn 2015. It was a dramatic time which put several of our social functions to the test and which eventually led to a dramatic policy shift, which is still under preparation in this House. I would like to make a few observations and remarks on the basis of the position of the KU. Firstly, I would like to remind you that the notification made of how the government had handled the refugee crisis in autumn 2015 was criticised from several quarters. It was considered to be a politicised notification, i.e. a notification directed against government policy rather than against formal issues, which is what the KU normally engages in. I did not share that view at the time, and I believe that the KU's extensive review that has been carried out shows that there were a number of KU-relevant perspectives to draw attention to when dealing with the refugee crisis. The first of the perspectives, and the most important thing in this context, is that the government has overall responsibility for crisis preparedness and crisis management. In its background text, on p. 398 and onward, the report states that the government's steering function must be seen to include the task of dealing with the consequences of a major disaster affecting the nation and its population, as this can hardly be a task for the parliament, individual municipalities or the courts. ..................................................... In addition, the committee points out that the government has the authorities that are subject to the government, and it has to take the necessary decisions, such as: in the form of directives for authorities to take various measures. As has been pointed out, the government's powers in this respect should be far-reaching in a crisis situation. The Government may also have decided in advance that authorities governed by the Government should have certain tasks in such a situation. ..................................................... Finally, the committee points out that, at the end of the day, it is the government – not the administrative authorities – which, in accordance with the RF, is responsible to the Riksdag for how the crisis is managed. ..................................................... I believe that this shows that it is clear that the government has overall responsibility for crisis management in the event of a national crisis and that it is reasonable for the KU to examine how the government lives up to that responsibility. This also raises several other KU-relevant issues, such as how the government implements its government governance, how the government documents various events and actions, how the government prepares the decisions that need to be made during the management of the crisis, how the government gathers information about the continued development of the crisis, and so on. I would like to emphasise that it was justified to examine the management of the refugee crisis, and it was good that that review was carried out. Secondly, Madam President, the KU makes an important point at the outset of its position. The committee notes that the Swedish National Audit Office is conducting a review of the government and authorities' management of the refugee crisis. After that, the KU argues that the government has initiated an independent evaluation of the management of the refugee crisis, and the KU states: The committee does not want to anticipate the work and conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office's review or the evaluation that the government intends to carry out. Thus, the Committee puts forward a discussion on various aspects of the government's preparation for and action during the refugee situation in autumn 2015 rather than making a final and definitive statement. ..................................................... This is an important mark if you think about what the KU then writes about different events and different actions by the government. It is not the case, if you use a somewhat sloppy language, that the KU has completely freed the government or said that the government's crisis management in all its parts has worked. However, the KU has not convicted the government because the KU has considered that there is not enough evidence for this in the review that has now been carried out. The KU notes that further facts will emerge through the Swedish National Audit Office's review and the review that the Government's own investigators will do. The KU comments on some details. However, the KU welcomes the fact that crisis exercises have been carried out. The KU believes that there seems to have been no lack of information in the Government Office and that there has been a wide-ranging information gathering. These are the points where the KU gives the government some sort of praise. With regard to the issue of the introduction of border controls for the KU one on the one hand and the other on the other hand, where the KU says that, on the one hand, the government would probably have been able to take the decision to introduce border controls earlier, but on the other hand, it is reasonable for the preparation to take some time. It is possible that further facts will emerge later that will allow for further analysis of this issue. Similarly, with the issue of the establishment of tent accommodations, on 9 October the government commissioned MSB to establish tent accommodations. They weren't there until two months later. The committee says that today we have no basis for claiming that the government could have speeded up this process further. Thirdly, Madam President, I would nevertheless like to mention that the KU makes a point, which can well be characterised as mildly critical. The KU notes that there is no documentation of the communication that has occurred between the Director General of the Migration Agency and Morgan Johansson's State Secretary. The committee says that this communication must reasonably have played a major role in the government's crisis management and believes that it should have been documented in at least simple form, for example through logbook records. That is a statement made by the KU, which we must hope the government will take on board. Fourthly, and lastly, I would like to mention something about what Jonas Millard raised in his speech. He took off in 1973, the year I was born, and discussed the development of society over the last 40 years. This is certainly an interesting issue, but it is far beyond the scope of the KU's review. Much can be discussed about what has happened in Sweden since 1973. Integration and immigration policies are absolutely interesting. Tax policy over the last 40 years is a very interesting subject. It is also with welfare policy, and so on. But they are issues for political science research rather than for the review of the Constitutional Committee. Nevertheless, we need for it to be manageable and meaningful to make a delimitation that means that we focus on whether the government has lived up to concrete norms, regulations and requirements contained in the government form, the KU's own practice or any other legal source. The KU cannot think about a broader social development outside of this. Jonas Millard said that the Alliance knew that immigration to Sweden was increasing. Yeah, it's obvious. Former Minister Tobias Billström said so in his hearing with the committee. He also described the measures taken by the then government to offset these developments, such as how he passed on the projections made by the Migration Board to the Government's budget preparation. Last and lastly, as regards the preparation of government affairs, Jonas Millard commented that the then government had not listened to certain critical referrals. No, it is not so unusual that there is a fragmented consultation outcome in the preparation of a proposal. Some consultation bodies think it is a good proposal, and some others are critical. Then the KU, as I see it, can hardly go into afterwards and say that the government should not have listened to those who were in favour of the proposal, but rather to the one or the others who were negative – thus it becomes a constitutional error not to have listened to the criticism. It is rather the case that the point of the preparation requirement is that all votes should be heard, that different referrals should be given an opinion. Then it is the responsibility of the government to make an assessment of the policy it wishes to pursue on the basis of the facts. Finally, it is the Riksdag that decides whether the Government's proposal is good enough and well-founded. Madam President, I would like I note that dealing with the refugee crisis is a major and important issue for society and that we are very likely to have reason to come back to it.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-514	Madam President, I would like We are on the last chapter of the review report, which deals with the reception of refugees. Behind this large part, over 100 pages, of the report are three reports – one from the Moderates, one from the Social Democrats and one from the Swedish Democrats. Our President said here earlier that there were those who were concerned that these particular reviews could be politicised. I must confess that I was one of those who was deeply concerned about how this report could be used in the future. But I have to say that I think it has become very good and very interesting. I think what I was most worried about was that the reports came in when you weren't really sure if the crisis was over. I thought: Is it too early to start an evaluation of a crisis at all if we do not know that it has been passed? Looking at the history, one might say that it has worked well. We've received an enormous amount of material, as I said in the introduction. There are piles up to half a meter, I think-- at least maybe 30 or 40 centimeters. What, then, do all these evidences show? Well, as far as the previous government is concerned, they show that sufficient efforts were made to extend the systems, increase reception capacity, improve the establishment of new arrivals and so on. A lot of decisions were made about faster processes at the Migration Agency, more efficient settlement work, a change of law to assign unaccompanied children even to municipalities that lack agreements and so on. A fourth Migration Court was also set up. You did what you had to do. As far as the present government is concerned, it can be said that it also did what was needed. We have mapped out what the government has done, and here it is considerably more material. It's like Berit Högman told us around seventy different government decisions. We also map in principle week by week all these key events that began with the first reports from the UNHCR, which noted that the number of refugees travelling via Turkey to the Greek island world had been sixfold in 2015. We map all the way up to all these seventies different decisions. In conclusion, one can say that the government still gets quite a lot of rose. It gets rose for having done good crisis management work and good crisis exercises. It gets some rice for the logbook notes, where documentation and communication between the Director-General and the responsible State Secretary can be done a little better. In principle, we are very pleased with what both the previous government and this government have done on these issues. The government will also initiate, or have initiated, an investigation that Gudrun Antemar will lead. The Swedish National Audit Office will also carry out an audit, so we will certainly have every reason to follow these issues in the future.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-525	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee has carried out a comprehensive review of the reception of refugees in respect of both the former government of Reinfeldt and the government of Löfven. As regards the Reinfeldt Government, the KU held a hearing with former Minister of Migration Tobias Billström. The KU concludes its position on the review of the Reinfeldt Government with the following paragraph: The committee has not found that any formal errors have been made. ..................................................... In debate articles written by Social Democrats in the KU and introduced in some newspapers last week it was described as that the KU would have praised the present government for its work on the fugitive issue. I can understand why the S ocial democrats want to make their government look good. But that description has nothing to do with the KU's review, as it is claimed to have in these debate articles. Anyone who reads the KU's position on this review can easily conclude that there is no form of commendation by the Government of Löfven. There is usually no praise in the KU's positions. The KU notes that a more comprehensive analysis would be required than was possible in the course of the KU review in order to draw some more far-reaching conclusions. The KU notes that the course of events in autumn 2015 will be reviewed by both the Swedish National Audit Office and the Government. As a Member of Parliament from Skåne and for the Center Party, I have taken note of the very extensive criticism of border controls on trains across Öresund in terms of both how they are organized and how they are implemented. Border controls have had and still have a very large and negative impact on the large number of commuters between Malmö and Copenhagen and for the business community in the Öresund area. As I see it, it should be possible to make these controls less time-consuming. It is urgent that the double border controls now be changed as soon as possible, and I believe that the government must take this criticism seriously and do something about the problems that have existed and still exist. But this is my political assessment and my opinion. I must admit that the government has had and has the support of the Parliament for border controls in the form in which they take place. That is why I do not have the basis for criticising the government in the constitutional sense for its action on border controls.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-532	Madam President, I would like As several here have pointed out, we have not examined whether the measures taken were right or wrong or whether they were good or bad policies. Several of the parties have different views on refugee policy and the measures taken in connection with it. I am among those who, like Mr Per-Per-Ingvar, question border controls. But, as I said, it is not the content of the policy we have examined here, but how this has been handled. As far as this is concerned, we do not have any criticism. When we talk about this, I think it's a bit problematic that we're talking about the refugee crisis. The big crisis is not really for us. We need to deal with this in a coordinated way, as in other crisis management, but the major crisis is for the people who have been forced to flee. It is also clear that the whole of society needs to act together for it to work. The government has a coordinating responsibility for authorities, but we also need to act at all levels and to cooperate. When very many people came to Sweden at the same time last autumn, it was to a very large extent voluntary forces that acted and that made it work. The municipalities were pretty shoddy. It was hard to get to it with housing. There were a lot of people in a place that would find a place to live. The Finnish Immigration Service was to find housing while elsewhere there were empty premises. This coordination did not fully work. Housing is also needed for a longer period of time. Seven parties have nevertheless been able to agree on this, despite the fact that we have different entrances, because we have chosen to look at how decisions have been taken, communication with authorities and so on. The party that chooses not to be behind criticises politics as such. One can imagine that you in that party would really be eager to make it work because you don't think it has worked well enough. You write in your reservation, among other things, that it has failed to manage the influx of migrants. Then you can imagine that you would be in favour of the measures that are then taken, such as looking at the possibilities of modular housing. It should be good if you want things to work. But, no, you have a Member of Parliament, as well as the newly elected Chairman of the Swedish Democrats in Stockholm, who says that the party will assist Stockholmers to appeal against all building permits regarding temporary housing for new arrivals. It's about you not wanting it to work politically. You are criticising the government because it will not be as you have thought it should be. When it comes to measures to obtain housing, school places and so on, you are constantly resisting. That's what I call bad populism, and it doesn't belong in the KU review.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-540	Madam President, I would like It is true, as Mia Sydow Mölleby says, that we have different approaches and different opinions on how refugee policy and immigration policy should be administered and managed. I do not believe that any kind of integration policy, modular housing, noise requirements or other forms of action will ensure that we fully address the problem. That is something the Left Party has tried to push. I spoke about what this issue was about and its background precisely to illustrate how immigration policy has been handled all along and why things have gone so wrong. I'm still interested in hearing what the Left Party's entry into it is. I get the impression that you are saying that everything has gone right, that you do not see any problems with this and that you think it has worked fantastically. Is there really nothing that the Left Party here today can say has actually been mismanaged even from a constitutional perspective?
i-196d2d9734bc6729-545	Madam President, I would like We have constitutionally reviewed the management of the large refugee flows that came to Sweden during the autumn. We have written a rather long position from the majority of committees, in which we note that the proceedings have been different in these matters. We note that several decisions have been taken. We have also noted that we lack documentation on some of the contacts between the government and the minister. There are therefore comments on how to deal with this. What we have been looking at is how the government has acted and how it has collaborated with its authorities based on the situation that there were a lot more people coming to our country in the autumn when very many people had to flee because of war and persecution.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-547	Madam President, I would like I think that many people who are listening to this debate will be very thoughtful. Many have now experienced that this particular autumn has been one of the most dramatic in Sweden in perhaps decades. The criticism that it boils down to, as far as I understand it, is that you have forgotten to fill out the correct forms or the right paper somewhere. This is not serious. In our reservation, we have highlighted a number of constitutional problems that we believe have existed, and we support them very clearly. It has happened that the Parliament's pulpit has spoken disgusting things to political opponents, for whom there is no evidence whatsoever. Then we should reasonably be under constitutional responsibility according to the government's demands for objectivity and impartiality. I will take one example, but there is one more line that I will not repeat. In this regard, there are certain vibes. Perhaps you will remember when the now notorious Baghdad-Bob during the war in Iraq stood on the barricades and spoke and said: Right now the Americans are falling at Baghdad's walls. About that credibility, I feel that the government, as well as the previous government, has on this issue. I do not think it is factual and correct. You should at least have some form of more objectivity and impartiality than, with the stubbornness of an ass, claiming that it is a matter of filling in the wrong paper.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-552	Madam President, I would like As far as the matter is concerned, there are four pages of the report under the heading of the Committee's position, four pages in which it discusses how this situation and cooperation with the authorities were handled by the government in the autumn and until about New Year. The government's responsibility for coordination is discussed. Issues related to crisis management, decisions, preparations and documentation are addressed. I assume that those interested in looking at this from a constitutional point of view are capable of reading four pages of text with statements from the committee.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-554	Madam President, I would like The change of line to which we have just listened illustrates that we in the committee as a whole have not been able to completely separate policies and constitutional scrutiny from each other. There are political tensions in the review, and we heard it in this change of line. But it is not up to us to examine whether politics was good or bad, whether it was effective or not in this social problem and helped these people. What we would check was whether the government has fulfilled its tasks within the existing constitutional basis. We have found no constitutional objection either to the present or to the previous government. Then you have to keep the door open for the Swedish National Audit Office and also the government to review. Things can come out that we don't know. What we have managed to achieve is the following. The documentation between the Director-General and the State Secretary could have been better. And we write: On 12 November 2015, internal border controls were reintroduced. There was information that the props were fulfilled a week before then. It is therefore questionable whether the decision should have been taken earlier. So a faster decision could have been taken – a week earlier. It is at that level that the constitutional basis for criticism exists. It could be a week or a week or a week. Of course, for the people who had problems, a week is often a week. To lie outside in Sweden – let alone during the worst winter – was terrible for the thousands of people who had it. But it was about some night. Taking into account the very large part of our scrutiny that we have put on this, the outcome has not been very great and not to the detriment of the government. However, the Swedish National Audit Office and the Government's own review remain.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-561	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the reservation of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. Of course, the attitude of the population when making boundaries for county councils or regions is important. Of course, it must be taken into account in the decision. However, there is a very important difference in relation to the boundaries of municipalities, and that is that there are other interests that are much stronger in relation to the classification of county councils. For example, the classification of county councils is very closely linked in terms of legislation to the division of their regions by the state. Therefore, the state's interest in the division of the whole country must also weigh very heavily. The state has a responsibility for the whole country's organization to function. When creating county councils, they will also be economically viable in the future. There is a hospital structure to take into account, and there is a collective kitchen structure to take into account. I could almost say that it would be deceiving the population of its influence if one goes very far by saying that the influence of the population should be almost decisive in the matter – as it should be in the case of municipal division issues. I can take an example from my native Mälardalen. Here we have a large Stockholm and Stockholm County with over 2 million inhabitants. It does not seem that the rest of the country, Stockholm County or governments want the region to become larger, but there is a natural labour market region and economic region that is significantly larger than Stockholm's current county. There is a strong perception in many municipalities around Stockholm County that one would like to belong to a larger Stockholm region. If we are to be realists, we can say that no government, or the rest of the country, will put forward such a proposal. To overemphasize the influence of the population over such a thing becomes a little strange, because the overall responsibility of the state in terms of regional division weighs very heavily. I'm in favour of the reservation.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-567	Madam President, I would like The question of the region is something that has been investigated for so long, and what we are going to consider today is a small piece of the puzzle in how to get on with the leaven that has been fermented for so many years on the regional issue. The background to moving forward on the regional issue is the democratic deficit that exists at regional level and what is called the regional mess. I myself live in a border area, and I must say that I am passionate about this issue. When I started with politics, there was still the phone book, the Televerket and all that-- you know. It was then that two government agencies, Televerket and the County Administrative Board, could not cooperate so much that we in Kungsbacka could have the telephone number of our own county administrative board in the telephone directory. It is such a typical, silly part of the total regional mess that exists. Today we are faced with a completely different matter. Just a little while ago, a bus stop was pulled in. Well, that happens everywhere in the country. That's nothing to worry about, you think. But in my municipality of residence we have a collaboration with Västra Götaland about our bus traffic, and then we pay and gain influence over Hallandtrafiken. Now that you're going to find out why our bus line has been withdrawn, it turns out that no one knows where the decision has been taken. No one knows, even though everyone who should be involved is involved. It is a total democratic deficit, and it is high time that we made further progress on the issue of the region. What we are debating today, report KU25 Transitional government and equalisation in the changing classification of municipalities and county councils, contains an important piece of the puzzle. We are talking here about what will happen in the transitional regime itself. Delegated divisions are to be appointed and the implementation of decisions on the formation of new county councils is to be facilitated and extensive changes in the classification of county councils are to be made. In such cases, the Government shall decide that a special body, so-called ‘delegated divisions', shall be able to exercise the decision-making right during a transitional period. This is very important. On the one hand, there is a bill from the government, and on the other there is a motion from the Alliance that Hans Ekström has presented exemplaryly. In the motion you write that you like to see the government go ahead and hear the county councils more clearly and that it will return in this. We do not think that is really necessary; that is what we have to say.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-572	Madam President, I would like The relationship between the central government and local or regional interests has been a central theme in Sweden's history over the past thousand years. From the beginning, the central power – the king's power – was weak, and the real power lay with the provinces and their powers. This changed gradually, and in the middle of the 1300s came Magnus Eriksson's general national law, the first law that applied throughout Sweden. In the 17th century the counties were established, and at the same time the governor's office was introduced so that there would be a king's command in place in every part of the kingdom. In the newly won realms within the borders of the kingdom, this was done gradually. The municipal constitutions of 1862 introduced a regional elected body that was given the historically well-established name. The county councils have long been the most important task of health care, but the county councils also have an important role to play in, for example, public transport and infrastructure issues. Over the last 20 years, the discussion of Sweden's regional division has been brought back to life, and voices have been raised to create large regions and metropolitan areas. The Västra Götaland region and Region Skåne were formed in the 1990s, and in 2007 the Responsible Committee proposed a thorough regional reform. During the last term of office processes were ongoing in many parts of the country to see if it was possible to find county council mergers that politicians in different county councils could agree on. It failed. It was not possible to find combinations that all the county councils concerned wanted to be part of. After the 2014 elections, the government appointed the so-called Division Committee, which will prepare proposals for significantly fewer counties and county councils than today. The investigation shall submit an interim report on 30 June of this year and submit proposals for such mergers as the investigation suggests can be carried out as early as 1 January 2019. Next year, the investigation will present its final report and present further proposals for mergers. Then, of course, it is a political assessment of the government and eventually the Riksdag if there are to be any county council mergers at all, and if so, what and what they should look like. The proposal we are now discussing aims to lay down rules for how the process of county council mergers should be carried out. When Region Skåne and Västra Götaland region were formed, the Riksdag passed special laws to regulate the process. With today's proposal, the Government wants to create a general regulatory framework for county council mergers. The bill proposes that when a county council merger is to be carried out, a new decision-making body, delegated to the division, will be formed to make decisions on behalf of the new large county council or – if you like – the large region until its general elections in the new large region have been held. It also proposes rules on financial equalisation between different parts of the new region. These proposals have not been controversial in the Constitutional Committee. If you are going to merge county councils, it is reasonable that there are pre-arranged rules on how such mergers should be carried out. However, I would like to draw attention to an issue on which I have received comments from county politicians who are taking part in the discussions with the Division Committee. It has been suggested from some quarters, including from Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, that the county councils that are not part of regional formation in 2019 will be governed by subdivision delegates for four years, i.e. the entire term 2019 – 2023. I understand that this argument has been used as a pressure on the county councils that are reluctant to enter this process as early as 2019. They say: Yes, you can try to delay and wait, but then you run the risk of being ruled by subdivisions for four years. For my part, I would like to point out that I consider it unreasonable that county councils should be governed by divisional delegates for four years, i.e. a full term of office. Such a claim is based on the assumption that decisions on all mergers are taken at the same time but that some are carried out in 2019 and part 2023. As I see it, the fact that it looks like the investigation is not going to propose the implementation of all mergers in 2019 is an expression of the fact that the preparation is not ready, that is, one cannot say what the proposals that should be implemented in 2023 should actually look like. There's got to be room for a council room. Otherwise, it would be pointless to have this two-step rocket that was required all along. I would therefore like to think that the kind of statements made from some quarters about the threat of divisions being delegated for four years is rather significant in the way this process seems to be going. The investigation and some other stakeholders have a high tempo and use all kinds of pressure agents, in the form of both carrots and whips, to get the county councils together and get their way. I think it is an unsatisfactory process. What has been controversial in committee is the proposal put forward by the alliance parties in a follow-up motion. In this respect, we note from the Alliance that it is specifically stipulated in the Divisions Act that municipal mergers should take particular account of the wishes and views of the population. Where there are reasons for this, a survey shall be carried out on the attitude of the population through a vote, an opinion poll or a similar procedure. There is no equivalent regulation in the case of changes in the county council classification. But if county councils are merged into large regions, people's everyday lives are affected as much as in changes in the classification of municipalities. In addition, a transformation of the current county council into six major regions, in accordance with the proposal that the Division Committee is working on, would mean a very big change in society. This would be the biggest change in Sweden's regional division since the 17th century and thus also a major change in how our country is governed. In view of this, there is every reason to give citizens the chance to speak in some form even in the case of county council mergers. It is difficult to see any logical reason why the citizen's perspective, from the bottom up perspective, would be less important when you merge county councils than when you merge municipalities. In some parts of Sweden, for example in Halland, Jämtland and Kronoberg, there are already strong opinions about the proposed major regions. It is a good illustration of why it is important that the wishes and views of the population are incorporated into the process in an organised manner and that there is legal support for it. However, our proposal has been met with considerable resistance, especially from politicians who are strongly pushing for regional reform to be carried out and, I would say, especially from politicians in the leadership of the organisation Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. It has been argued that the proposal has been put forward to make regional reform more difficult and that it is difficult for citizens to understand a complex issue of this kind. It is also said that a future regional reform will be based on an overall analysis and that it will not only be possible to remove a county council, even if the population there is against. From my point of view, it is a strange statement to say that county council mergers are too difficult for citizens to understand and should therefore be left to politicians. Landsting's mergers are not about technical, practical and formal issues such as collaboration at operational level between hospitals in different county councils or collaboration on cross-border public transport or something like that. Landsting mergers concern the foundations of democratic decision-making. Merging four or five county councils into a large region raises very important democratic issues that directly affect how citizens can operate politically in a region, how their accountability can be exercised and what legitimacy decisions can have. Questions can be asked, for example: How is the distance between the voters and the chosen ones affected? How can we ensure that the entire large region is represented in the political bodies? What opportunities are there to act as a leisure politician in a large region that extends from Kiruna to Sundsvall? What about the legitimacy of the decisions? In my opinion, it is about the large East Sweden region with Östergötland and the three Småland counties. If the proposal is raised in such a merger to rationalise the hospital organisation and close one of the hospitals in Västervik or Eksjö, which are both quite small – Västervik is, as you know, in Kalmar County and Eksjö in Jönköping County – how will the population in Eksjö or the old Jönköping County feel that the decision is legitimate if it is made by a majority of politicians from the other county councils that are part of the new large region? Does it feel that it has the legitimacy that democratic decisions should have, or does it see itself as being run over by politicians from other parts of the new large region? I don't have a definite answer to that. It may be possible to deal with this, but I would nevertheless like to point out that this raises important democratic issues and that it is therefore very important for the people to be involved in this discussion and to have the opportunity to comment on these important issues. I support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-594	Madam President, I would like Before I entered the Riksdag, I often heard from politicians, especially politicians who were not Swedish democrats, but also from political scientists and others that a vote on the Swedish Democrats was a voice that was thrown into the lake and that we could not influence. But we can. It is obvious, and that is why I am happy to announce today that we will be voting in favour of the proposal of the Committee majority, which will help to ensure that it will not be as easy as the government now wants it to be to form these major regions without first listening to the people. Today, in the Constitutional Committee, we have debated a lot in this House. As everyone knows, there is nothing more exciting than a smoking fresh committee report. Even today's European Championship match between Sweden and Ireland can't compete with us? Well, I understand you'd rather go home and watch the game, so I'll be very brief. Madam President, I would like By the end of August 2017, an investigation will present its proposals for a new division of counties. As a result, the Government has chosen to present a proposal to prescribe how a county division should be governed by law. The Swedish Democrats have nothing against the fact that it is the same in all parts of Sweden. However, on the usefulness and appropriateness of breaking down over 400-year-old county divisions, we have a lot of points of view, and we will certainly come back to the issue when it comes to discussing it. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats protect local identities and close contact with the people. We are generally sceptical about the creation of large regions and see the risks of a system that centralises power and lack of communication with and anchoring citizens. The preservation of local and regional identities with a deep historical foundation is also of great importance to the Swedish Democrats in the future. For this reason, we believe, among other things, that care should be taken when planning to break up municipal and county boundaries based on natural geographical boundaries and a historically established identity. If such decisions still have to be taken, it is essential that responsible politicians first ensure that they have deep-rooted popular support. We are therefore behind the committee when it proposes an announcement that the government should return to the Riksdag with proposals for provisions of the meaning that the wishes and views of the population should be taken into account when changing the county council classification. Local will must weigh very heavily in the event of a change. In these words, I thank you for that.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-601	Madam President, I would like The Government wishes to prepare for the implementation of regional reform throughout the country through the bill "Transitional governance and equalization" in the revised classification of municipalities and county councils. As a county council and regional politician in Skåne, I was present when the two former county councils in Skåne and Malmö formed Region Skåne in 1999. It was a regional formation preceded by more than four years of preparation. But then it took more than ten years to carry out the merger of the two university hospitals in Lund and Malmö, which was one of the most important goals when the region itself was formed. Correspondingly, the region formation that took place in Skåne in 1999 took place simultaneously in Västra Götaland. These regional formations in Skåne and Västra Götaland required special legislation by the government and parliament to be implemented. The proposal that we are now discussing is intended to provide the conditions for the formation of regions to be common to all new regions. But it is important to stress that the formation of regions must be preceded by further legislation and parliamentary decisions. That's not enough of what's in this bill. The representatives of the Alliance parties in the Constitutional Committee have given a follow-up motion to Parliament on this matter. It is, as I see it, an important follow-up motion in which we stress that when new regions are formed in the country, the inhabitants of the parts concerned must be given the opportunity to make their views known. We highlight in the follow-up motion that such rules exist at municipal meetings but not in the rules for the compilation of county councils. We want similar rules for county councils to be introduced. I think that some wordings in the reservations of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, where they highlight their views on how regional formations should be conducted, are something remarkable. On p. 15 in their reservation, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party write among other things: The classification of counties depends on the division of counties in such a way that each county council will comprise a county, unless something else is specifically prescribed. Thus, if the State changes its administrative division, it may be necessary to change the county administrative division. This link between the division of the state and the regional division means that there are different starting points for the classification of county councils than for the classification of municipalities. A change in the classification of the county councils may therefore be prompted by the state's desire to change the administrative division. The legal requirement to investigate and take into account the attitude of the population in such cases does not seem justified. They also say that it can have negative consequences for the functioning of county councils if municipalities, due to the wishes of the population, have moved from one county council to another. In conclusion, the three parties say that special provisions should not be introduced to take into account the wishes and views of the population when changing the classification of county councils. It is therefore clearly stated by S, MP and V that it can have negative consequences if the wishes of the population are reflected in the decisions on regional formations. I find it remarkable. At the final stage, it is always the government and parliament that decides the divisional issues for municipalities and county councils, but it is important to listen to what residents think about the division issues as well as in other political issues. The Centre Party has listened and stated as part of the discussion on the formation of regions, where there is now a proposal from the Division Committee, that more than six regions may be needed in the country. For us, it is important that we have listened to the debate that has been held. We must have that opportunity, and we want to continue to listen. I support the proposal of the Constitutional Committee, which calls for the points raised in our accompanying motion to be taken into account.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-615	Madam President, I would like It is good that we can be allowed to clear up misunderstandings, because this is something that will continue. The first sentence of our reservation reads: First of all, it should be stressed that the opinion of the population is important. That is how we really think it is; it is extremely important. What we are a little concerned about is whether certain small parts would have veto and there could be regions all over the country consisting of a small strip that is not included anywhere. The government wants a whole country. We need it, and then we cannot allow any kind of referendum. In the worst case, the areas with the greatest fiscal power and the richest could form their own region. It would not be good for the other regions or for the country.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-620	Madam President, I would like We have not said that municipalities or county councils should have the right of veto. We have been clear that it is the government and parliament that have the final word. At the same time, however, it is important to listen to what the population thinks. Those who make decisions in the government and parliament should know what the population thinks before making decisions. It is an important basis that I think you are ignoring in your reservation.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-623	Madam President, I would like I think this is part of the whole process. The government has already appointed two negotiators who travel around and have dialogue with the whole country. It is important for us to listen to what the people think. But if you get the opportunity to vote in popular vote, you will be very disappointed if it is not as the referendum says, and there may be demands for it to be as it says. We government parties believe that it is important to listen, but it is also extremely important to make an overall assessment where both the state division and the sub-regional formation from below are of great importance.
i-196d2d9734bc6729-626	Madam President, I would like Referendums may not be the most important way of listening. The most important thing is that we politicians listen. In Sweden we have a tradition of consultative referendums. We have no decision-making referendums. A referendum is not decisive on one issue, and people know that.
