i-14bde00c78bf2433-23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Johan Hultberg has asked the Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht questions about the direction of forest protection. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. These issues concern the protection of forests, including the definition of the cost-effective protection of forests, how the objectives set for forest protection are to be achieved with substantially reduced funding, how the latter affects the landowners concerned and what measures will be taken to achieve greater formal protection of forests with reduced funding for the purpose. Madam President, let me begin by explaining that the Government has a clear ambition that protective forests should not be harvested and that environmental considerations in forestry should increase. The government is also making the biggest ever investment in protection and management of a valuable nature with SEK 3.5 billion during its term of office. The government has not reduced funding for forest protection, but increased it. In addition to the possibility of protecting more valuable forests, the increase in appropriations also has a positive effect on individual forest owners when the state now has increased financial opportunities for compensation. Thereby several of Johan Hultberg's questions fall. These are funds allocated to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the Swedish Forest Agency. It is true that appropriation 1:16, Protection of a valuable nature, in the spring 2016 amending budget is proposed to decrease by SEK 250 million compared to what was proposed in the budget proposal for 2016. But the government also announces in the 2016 spring change budget that the grant will increase by SEK 250 million in 2017. This means that, during the term of office, the government estimates to allocate more than SEK 2 billion more than the alliance government set aside in its budget proposals. It is important, Madam President, that implementation is based on cost-effectiveness. It is therefore appropriate to work in a planned and structured manner. It is for this reason, among other reasons, that the government in December 2015 has added an equal mission to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Forest Agency, which Hultberg mentions. The mission involves authorities evaluating, among other things, the National Strategy for the formal protection of forests and using the results together with their experience of working on forest protection to revise the existing strategy with a view to achieving cost-effective protection. The mandate includes reporting areas and geographical distribution of known valuable forests without formal protection and which of them are subject to voluntary provisions and analysing the need for complementary mapping of unknown valuable forests. It also includes proposing a new distribution model based on agreed interim objectives for the protection of land areas covering forests with high natural values. I expect that the result, which will be presented by 31 December this year, will provide a good basis for further work on effective and cost-effective protection. The most effective thing is that state resources are invested where they are most useful. I also expect that the protection of valuable forests will also be achieved through the voluntary provisions that forestry is expected to make. The Government's forestry policy is based on two equal goals: the environment and production. There is a need to develop both of these elements. Nevertheless, as protection and environmental protection will increase, increased production of forest raw material is important in a transition to a bio-based society and in phasing out fossil energy. The Government hopes that the ongoing work to develop a national forest programme through dialogue between the various stakeholders in the forest will lead to a positive development of the equal goals. The national forest programme is built up by a dialogue that covers ecological, social and economic values and contributes to the development of a sustainable society.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-32	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. I put this interpellation to Rural Minister Bucht, who was willing to hand it over to Minister Romson for Climate and Environment. In the past, Madam President, when I asked Åsa Romson about how she, as Minister for Climate and Environment, looked at the role of forests in the climate transition, the Minister chose to hand it over to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. I therefore note that forestry issues are somewhat played between themselves within the government. I think, Madam President, that it is a bit unfortunate that there seems to be no one in the government who wants to take the overall discussion on the forest. The issues of forest protection are closely linked to the question of the role of forests in climate change. The forest is potentially a huge climate hero. As the Minister also pointed out in his reply, it can help us phase out fossil energy and replace energy-intensive building materials such as steel and concrete and simply be an important basis for building a bio-based society. But the goal of creating a bio-based society is, of course, sometimes in conflict with the goal of protecting the forest. It goes without saying, Madam President, that forest cannot be protected from felling while the forest is being cut off to build new houses from it or to produce fuel. I think it is important to have a discussion about this conflict and this balance. It is a balance that every government must find and a discussion that we must constantly have. I would have liked to have had that discussion with one and the same minister, but now I note that the questions are being raised between the Minister for Rural Development and the Minister for Climate and the Environment. Back to the interpellation itself and the questions I have asked. I asked the Minister, among other things, about her definition of the cost-effective protection of forests. To be honest, Madam President, I received a bit of a good-day-yx-shaft response when the Minister said that the most effective thing is to use state resources where they are most useful. That's pretty obvious. I was more looking for a discussion on how to protect forests in the most cost-effective way. Of course, we should do that where it is most useful, but how can we protect the most valuable areas and how can we find forms of compensation that ensure that taxpayers' money is protected in the best possible way? Here are some supplementary questions. Madam President, I would like The Green Party has previously criticised the fact that the Alliance Government increased the appropriation for expropriation. If you get your land taken by the state because it is so safe, you now get compensation for the market value and also a supplement to compensate for future revenue loss and suffering and aches, you might say. That addition has been criticised by the Green Party in the past. It has been said that we would be able to protect more forest if we did not have the addition. My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: Is it the government's view that the amendment should be removed? Should we perhaps even return to the previous regime where forest owners were not even compensated for the full market value, but only up to, I remember, 75%? You had to have a tolerance reduction there.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-40	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Hultberg for the interpellation. The first new question raised here is about who in the government will answer the questions of the MPs. I can inform the Member of Parliament that it is decided at expedition level at the Government Office what issues lie within the portfolios of various ministers. As a Member of Parliament, one can of course have views that there should be a Minister for Forestry who deals with issues such as the environment, environmental protection and protection of forests as well as issues relating to forest industries. But the Government Office is so organized that this is divided into two different ministers. As far as I know, it is a regime that has been in place in the Swedish Government for a long time because it has chosen to gather green industries under a minister and environmental issues under a minister. The government has a common and clear position. That is also why the answers that ministers give in the Riksdag always represent the policy of the whole government. There should be no doubt that the answers received in this House stand for the whole government, regardless of which minister you talk to. It is of course fun if Members of Parliament want to ask questions about forests, not only to me as Minister for the Environment – who of course raises the aspects of forests in Sweden in terms of natural values and the long-term environmental values that a healthy and vibrant forest provides for the economy, society, social recreation such as hunting and berry picking and not least for the purely environmental ecological functions – but also to ministers with other responsibilities, such as questions about the forest industry or land ownership. Johan Hultberg asked supplementary questions, and I will answer them as best I can, although it is always easier when you are prepared. The government has not announced any changes to the now constitutional issues relating to expropriation compensation. It is true that the increase in compensation for both market value and affectation value means that it is now more expensive for the state to protect forests. You can easily calculate whether it means that we get more protected forest or not. At the same time, landowners are paid more, which makes landowners feel that their environmental work is valued higher. As Minister for the Environment, of course, I think it is positive. It is welcome that we in Sweden today can protect a larger proportion of the valuable forest. I know it brings a lot of environmental benefit back. Not least, it gives environmental benefits to the large forest and forest industry we have as it buffers the biological values that need to exist for a forest to live and feel good and for us to retain a great variety of species, a robustness against climate change with several values. We have very valuable forests that are not yet formally protected and for which the landowner is therefore partly obliged to assume responsibility because it cannot be harvested. It is good that there is money from the government to replace landowners so that they can have a productive forest land to the desired extent. I am therefore proud that the government has substantially increased the appropriations above the previous levels. We are now in a debate on the increased funding to protect forests in Sweden.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-51	Madam President, I would like The latest announcement made by the government in terms of appropriations for the protection of a valuable nature was a reduction of 250 million – just so we are clear about it. It is true, however, that an increase was made in the autumn budget. It is now clear that what I and other bourgeois politicians have warned against – that is, that the government does not have control over the development of costs, not least in terms of the transfer systems – means that the government is forced to make rather short-term savings, and then the long-term policy lacks. The Minister for Climate and Environment says it is a temporary reduction. The 250 million will come back in the appropriation; they are included in the plan for the coming years. Can we trust that promise? The government has been forced to reduce the environmental budget quite substantially in order to finance increased costs of health insurance, refugee reception and other things because the necessary reforms have not been implemented to limit cost increases and to ensure that people get into jobs and their own livelihoods. It is therefore a consequence of a failed policy at large. Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the Green Party has obviously reconsidered its position on compensation for landowners since it came into government. It is a good thing that landowners are compensated for the market value, to cover future revenue forgone and, as the Minister put it, for the impact value. That's right and right. I think it is a sensible investment for environmental work in the forest. If we are to achieve our high environmental objectives in the forest, it is crucial that we create an incentive structure that allows forest owners of their own free will to use forests in the best possible way for biodiversity, i.e. that they take as much account as possible of their use. Madam President, I would like The most important thing is that we have forestry that has a well-developed natural consideration in use and can combine use with environmental considerations. Basically, it is in some sense a failure when we have to set aside specific forests for the protection of biodiversity. In the best of worlds, on each hectare of forest land we will succeed in combining both high environmental values and the possibility of wood removals to reach our need to build more wood and produce more bio-based raw materials. Madam President, I would like The government has taken the initiative to review the strategy for protection of a valuable nature. This assignment is located at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency together with Skogsstyrelsen. The mission states that what the authorities will present will be a basis for the government to develop new milestones for protection of a valuable nature. As late as the spring of 2014, the House decided on new milestones for precisely the protection of valuable nature where we jointly agreed that under the Nagoya agreement we should protect 20% of our land and fresh water areas and at least 150 000 hectares of productive forest land. In addition, we hope that voluntary provisions will increase by 200 000 hectares. However, the government does not think this is enough, and it will therefore present even higher milestones. Is that correct?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-62	Madam President, I would like Thank you for allowing me to come to this House and talk about one of Sweden's gems of wealth in both the short and long term! I share the view which is widely anchored in this House that forests are an incredibly important resource for Sweden. It is important because it gives us materials to build more wood. It can also be further refined to replace more and more fossil material, not only in terms of fuel and heating, but also in terms of clothing and things we have used fossil oil for, such as plastics. The forest is thus an amazing resource nutritionally. Madam President, I would like The forest is also the resource that gives us fresh air, clean water and a stable natural environment that at best withstands climate change. It is in this natural environment that we teach our children to understand how the ecological contexts are connected. It was nice to hear the great party of Moderates' vision that environmental considerations in the forest industry should be so great that all the protection values we have long-term needs in the forest should be met within the industry and that special protection should not be needed. That was a wise and exciting argument. Unfortunately, however, I have not seen it at all in terms of moderate environmental and forestry policy. The truth is, Madam President, that when you read the moderate budget, you can clearly see how the protection of forests is not prioritised, but rather that it is cut back very strongly. There, Madam President, we can talk about the real slaughter of the natural values that need money in the system we have today, with the levels of compensation that we have today, so that the landowners who have valuable forests can feel that they have a basis for being able to contribute to a better environment but also to get a legitimate income from their industry. Today's order is that for the truly protective forest, which needs protection from productive logging, there is a right to compensation. In fact, Madam President, we must be prepared to pay from the state in order to protect those values. I note that the Moderates have not arrived. It is easy to stand in this Chamber and talk about a vision of how environmental considerations in the industry would increase. I say: welcome with suggestions on how we also balance this better in forestry legislation and in the context of the current forest dialogue! I have not yet heard the strong proposals from the moderate side. However, I see very clearly, in the statistics on the protection of our most valuable forests, that from the moment this government took over – and clearly indicated that the landowners will be paid for us to keep uncut parts of the forest in order to be able to give those riches to the future – it has sometimes been more than a doubling of the average of the areas protected in Sweden, only if you compare back to 2015, when only half of the year had this government's budget. I note that the government is pursuing a consistent policy for the clear protection of forests, so that the forest will also fulfil its important role as a nutrient as a productive entity. For that you need to be honest with your budget too, but I do not think that has been from the opposition.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-71	Madam President, I would like I will begin by repeating the question that I closed my previous speech with: will the government's work on reviewing the interim targets mean further raising the intermediate targets in terms of protection of a valuable nature? The Parliament decided on new milestones as late as spring 2014, which include protecting additional 150 000 hectares of productive forest land and also believing that the voluntary provisions will increase by 200 000 hectares. Madam President, I would like As I said in my first speech: we need to see the fact that forest protection is in conflict with the ambition to use the forest and obtain more renewable materials, fuels and products. Each protected hectare hopefully delivers environmental benefits in the form of protecting valuable natural values. But it also has a price in the form of reduced raw materials for industry, fewer jobs in industry and reduced opportunities to substitute fossil energy-intensive materials. I would therefore like to repeat that question. I said that it was an ambition that we should reach so far that we do not need to protect any particular areas. That is a very long way, and I believe that we still need protection of a valuable nature as a complementary tool. But I also see with great satisfaction that nature considerations in forestry are increasing very rapidly. It is because we have a model of freedom under responsibility, which gives forest owners a great opportunity to design their own use. The most important thing to the forest owners from this government must be that this model is established, because the values in the forest also develop for the environment. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for Climate and Environment for many tense and good debates. I understand that this will be the last debate we have in this context. I wish the Minister good luck in the future. Perhaps we will meet here again, because the Minister has the opportunity to return to being a Member of Parliament.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-78	Madam President, I would like To answer the question about the intermediate objectives: these are milestones for achieving environmental objectives on living forests. They are designed as a minimum number of hectares and an assessment of the amount of voluntary provisions – a rather generous assessment that was made in the Environmental Objectives Preparation at the time. I think it is important for the government to follow this closely and see how it is going and what additional incentives we must also give to strengthen voluntary provisions, so that they are more stable and quality assured and become an instrument in which forest owners feel that they are doing real environmental good. To continue working with the environmental objectives system and ensure that we step by step move towards living forests and also define it to make our international commitments strong, I think is important. The government will, of course, come back to the House if it wants to change and tighten the intermediate targets. The work that is now under way is precisely aimed at getting a better overview and being able to make the system more effective in that it is the really protective forests that we are supposed to protect in the first place, and of course we are going to work for a forestry that also takes environmental considerations, as well as it can produce and provide inputs to the industry that replaces much of the fossil fuels. Thank you for the debate. Also I have enjoyed the years with many interpellations, not least from Johan Hultberg. It has been nice, and it is always fun to discuss environmental issues in Parliament. We'll see what forms it takes.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-83	Madam President, I would like Robert Hannah has asked me if the government could envisage targeted assistance to Iraq's minorities, how the government supports Iraq's minorities, and whether the government could envisage channelling aid directly to minorities. The government has taken note of recent statements by the UN Special Rapporteur on Minorities, Rita Izsák-Ndiaye-Ndiaye. I share the concern of the questioner and the special rapporteur about the vulnerability of many minorities in war-torn Iraq. The security situation in Iraq is strained, and the level of violence is high, with continued unprecedented brutality from ISIL/ Daish. Ethnic and religious minorities, as well as women and children, are particularly affected by Daish's gross abuse. Swedish humanitarian aid is guided by international humanitarian law and principles. This means that humanitarian aid must be directed at all those in need, regardless of their political, religious or ethnic affiliation or their geographical area of residence. Although the many minorities are particularly vulnerable, violence affects all communities in Iraq, including Sunni, Shia and Kurds. Within Swedish development aid, the issue of respect for human rights, including respect for persons belonging to ethnic or religious minorities, has always been a cornerstone. The unhealed wounds of history characterize many who have fled to our country. They also carry priceless knowledge. The government conducts an ongoing dialogue with representatives of various minority groups with roots in the Middle East. We need a deeper understanding of the situation, the challenges and the needs. Through discussions with the directly concerned and their representatives, we want to make Sweden's efforts more effective. As a major donor and member of the multilateral development agencies, such as the World Food Programme and UNICEF, Sweden is actively pushing us to ensure that aid is managed effectively and reaches the most needy. Sweden and the EU support efforts to end violence and reach a long-term political solution in Iraq. In the latter, we have close contacts with UNami, among other things. Together, we are working for an Iraq that is inclusive and democratic and protects the entire population of the country, regardless of ethnic group or belief, and supports democratic, peaceful development in Iraq. The EU has established the importance of accountability for crimes and abuse, including crimes against persons from minority groups. Sweden has a broad and long-term commitment to Iraq. It follows three main tracks. The first is political and aims to support dialogue and reconciliation between the various religious and ethnic groups in the country. During the visit of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence to Iraq in November, this was stressed throughout the talks with representatives of the Government of Iraq as well as with representatives of Kurdish self-government in Erbil. Sweden also stressed the importance of full respect for human rights, including the improvement of the situation of women in Iraq and respect for the rule of law. Ministers also demonstrated support for the democratic process and the diversity of society in the context of special meetings with representatives of civil society and minority groups. The second main track is extensive humanitarian aid. Since the conflict in Iraq broke out in early 2014, Sweden has to date contributed SEK 456 million in humanitarian aid. We have also contributed SEK 35 million to the UN Fund for the Stabilisation of Areas Freed from Daish, and we are on the Foundation's Steering Committee. We are among the EU countries that take the greatest responsibility for the civilian population in the war-affected countries of the Middle East. As a third main track, Sweden provides military support through the international coalition for more than 60 countries supporting Iraq in the fight against ISIL/Daish. Since August 2015, Sweden has contributed a military training grant to the efforts of the coalition at the invitation of the Iraqi Government. The main tasks of the Swedish force, which consists of 35 people, are education and advice to the Iraqi self-defense forces in northern Iraq. It also includes training in international humanitarian law.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-91	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Development for her reply. I would like to start by pointing out that I am very proud that Sweden is such a major donor of humanitarian aid to Iraq and has been so for many years, although I myself would like to see a much greater military effort to eradicate and crush ISIS, which is well needed. I also believe that there is a genocide going on in Iraq and in Syria today. That tomorrow the Green Party will vote against such recognition on the part of the Swedish Parliament is an incredible pity to me. It shows that words and practice may not always be consistent. There are many fine words that the Minister for Development is saying here. If that had been the case in practice, I would not have had to stand here today, but that is not the case. I share the basic view of the Minister for Development in development policy. The assistance shall be objective, given as necessary and shall be provided subjectively. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case with aid to Iraq. I have visited Iraq, and I can guarantee the Minister for Development that this aid will not reach the minority groups. The groups most in need of aid do not benefit from Swedish aid today, and it is precisely to the endangered minorities that the aid does not arrive. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Minister for Development is a very competent person. But I think she is wrong in this case. I also think that we should stop listening so much to the advisers at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because they show a great deal of ignorance on this issue as to who the aid money actually goes to. Today, I stand here because the money is not directed at everyone, because it is not being given fair and because the minorities have been endangered for ten years and risk this even more. There's a risk that the minorities won't be around in ten years. In 2003 there were 200 000 mandés. Today there are 1 000 to 2 000 left in Iraq. There are twice as many people living in the Eskilstuna area. This is because we have not helped in the area and have not protected them. The UN Special Minority Rapporteur, Rita Izsák-Ndiaye-Ndiaye, is asking the outside world to support these very minority groups because they are at risk of extinction. They are Assyrians/Syrians, Bahais, Failicurds, Yarzanians, Mandés, Shabakers, Turkmens, Yazidis and Zoroastris. If this is the case, aid is not given directly to them, it is given to those in power. When I've been to Iraq, I've been talking to different types of people in power. They admit that they put 80% in their own pocket. 20% of the aid given to the State or the authorities is actually delivered. That is what their own politicians with different directions on the ground have said. Then I find it interesting that the Minister for Development also supports and wants to give money to a Swedish organisation called Islamic Relief. Islamic Relief is a Muslim organization that provides money and supports aid. How, then, is one to think that incredibly discriminated groups that are religious minorities and have been oppressed, exterminated, hunted and incited in the last ten years should ever turn to Islamic Relief for aid and support? It doesn't happen in practice. All the sources that I have talked to during my stay there say that the money does not arrive, that the money ends up in the pockets of those in power and that the only way to be sure that the money is right is to work directly with organisations that turn to the minorities to support them. When I was there, I also talked to the Swedish Embassy in Baghdad and asked them straight out if the aid reaches and if they can guarantee it. They said no. They cannot guarantee that aid will arrive, and they certainly cannot guarantee that it will reach the minorities. Then I find it very disturbing to have the feeling that everything is peace and joy and that we are spending a lot of money. I am proud of how much money Sweden is investing. But if the money does not reach the most vulnerable minority groups, why do we send it? In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Development: why can Swedish aid be given to Islamic Relief, which is aimed at majority groups, and not to the minority groups that are actually endangered in Iraq? And how does the Minister ensure that minorities actually benefit from Swedish aid and what has been said in fine words here today?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-101	Madam President, I would like I thank Robert Hannah for the great commitment he has shown to this incredibly important issue and to the vulnerable situation of millions of people in Iraq today. The figure of 10 million people in need of humanitarian aid is increasing to 13 million people. Sweden is one of the largest donors both of bilateral long-term support and of humanitarian aid to Iraq today. I would like to begin by answering the question about Islamic Relief because it is written a lot about it. This support was initiated during the previous government's tenure, by Minister for Development Gunilla Carlsson. Sida controls how these organisations live up to the strictly neutral humanitarian principles that all organisations must comply with if they are to receive Swedish support. This organisation also receives support through the EU and through the UN and is recognised by all major actors. The fact that it is an Islamic organisation does not matter, as little as the Swedish Church, Diakonia, the Mission League and a number of Christian organisations also contribute with humanitarian support in the world – to get this said. There is nothing to prevent other smaller organisations from being humanitarian or aid providers that we channel in different ways, including through the UN, the EU and also in our direct bilateral support. The previous government wanted to phase out direct bilateral support. I myself made the decision last year not to do so, but to ensure that it continues until December 2016. There, among other things, we aim to support the coordination function of the government and Parliament, so that we have a legitimate governance with transparency. We also support the media. It is a question of having a long-term political solution, in which we also call on the government to conduct an inclusive policy that includes all minorities. Parts of Iraq are occupied by Daish/ ISIL. In these areas, it is almost impossible to achieve because of the safety risk. Then you can try to cooperate with various local actors, which I am absolutely sure our performers will do to the extent possible. Sweden is also a very large donor to the UNDP stabilisation fund, which quickly enters the areas that have been freed from ISIL/ Daish. We have given 35 million to enable people to return to these areas. We are conducting a dialogue with the vulnerable minorities, both with the representatives who may be here in Sweden and those who have fled. I met the Yazid girl Nadia Murad, who has been through terrible things. She was here in Sweden and talked about the Yazidians and her terrible situation. We are extremely aware of this, which I would like to emphasise. There is absolutely nothing to prevent you from working with smaller organisations that can reach out in these difficult areas. But in areas that have been besieged by Daish it is very difficult. It does not respect the humanitarian principles of other states, where neutral helpers can be released. ISIL doesn't, Daish doesn't. We can also note that the number of humanitarian aid workers who have been killed or captured in recent years has increased alarmingly. This is a terribly dangerous environment to work in. We want to make every effort to change this also through humanitarian summits.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-109	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with the Minister for Development's view of what Daish, Isis, is. I believe that peace cannot be spoken with Isis. Daish must be crushed and simply exterminated because they commit genocide. That is why we in the Liberal arena believe that there should be stronger military involvement and recognition of genocide, so that the efforts are in line with the crimes committed. I will return to the situation of minorities in Iraq. If we do not have the courage to support minorities directly, they will not be there in ten years' time. Ten years ago there were 11⁄2 million Christians in Iraq. Today it is 250 000 − 300 000 Christians. Ten years ago there were 200 000 mandés in Iraq. Today there are a few thousand. In the last ten years, Bahais, Zoroastria and other ethnic groups have taken the biggest blow, and they will take the biggest blow again in this war. There is an extreme sectarianism in Iraq where Shia Muslims, Sunni Muslims and Kurds are three different strong groupings. They can protect and defend themselves militarily. But minority groups cannot do that. That is why what an Iraqi parliamentarian described to me is that they become footballs in football matches between different groups. I think it is great that efforts are being made to work for a united Iraq, but if there is a conflict, it will happen in the areas of minorities. It will take place in Sinjar, on the plain of Nineves or in the areas where the Turkmens are located. They are the ones who will suffer the worst. That is why Swedish aid must be directed there. I would like to take a very clear example. It's the Yazid girls who've been raped. They're the Yazidian girls who've been sold in slave markets. It is the Yazidian girls who have been the most affected. When I was in Iraq, tell me the ya zidian escape that when they studied at Mosul University it was free to rape or kill Yazidians, because you could treat them any way you wanted. The situation that has lasted since 2003 has been extreme. These peoples do not trust Islamic Relief or any other organization that does not work directly for minorities that they can be supported by, trust and protected by. It is really good to work through UNICEF or like n spirit, but one should not believe that minorities will trust the Iraqi authorities or organisations with Muslim stamps. It would be very difficult for them to even dare to do so. Sinjar was released from Isis in November. Then what happened? Have people returned to Sinjar? No, they haven't. Why return to a region that does not have electricity, where houses are destroyed, where you cannot be sure to be protected from Isis if you return, where there is no future or hope? What is happening now is that the Ya Zidian refugees, the Assyrian refugees and the other refugees are still in the refugee camps because they have nothing to return to. This is largely due to the fact that neither the Kurdish Government nor the Iraqi Government will invest in these areas, because it is conflict areas that they both claim. What will happen when the Nineves plain is freed from Isis? Nothing, I guess. It will only be an empty, deserted area, if you do not dare to make any efforts, unless the international community dares to say: here we are investing in reconstruction with money directly from UNICEF or other organisations on the ground working with minorities. Otherwise, I can guarantee the Minister for Development that in ten years' time there will be even more Mandés, Assyrians, Bahais and others coming to Sweden. Iraq's population has increased by 30%, while the Assyrians have decreased from 11⁄2 million to 250 000 – 300 000. It is unreasonable proportions where minorities are by far the most affected and, in practice, eradicated. I very much wish that the fine words that the Minister put forward here would be met in practice. In reality, these minorities will not remain unless Sweden and other countries act more strongly to support them.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-118	Madam President, I would like These are important issues that are being raised, but perhaps it is the wrong country to make serious accusations against. Sweden is one of the largest humanitarian donors to Iraq. We gave SEK 180 million in humanitarian aid last year, and we channeled this through the UNHCR, World Food Programme, UNICEF, i.e. all the organisations that I believe Robert Hannah wants us to use. I do not know how much has gone through Islamic Relief or other organisations, but we mainly go through UN channels. We have decided on long-term support of 40 million to strengthen state administration, parliament and free media and also to build a long-term sustainable state. We have given 35 million to the UNDP's stabilisation fund which enters the areas that have been freed from ISIL. One example is Tikrit, where universities have recently been opened with 16 000 newly enrolled students. We also support mine clearance in Iraq with SEK 15 million this year. We are pursuing a very active political dialogue. We run the Alexandria Institute in Cairo, which conducts dialogue between different religious minorities. The Embassy in Baghdad is doing a great job. We work politically by talking about an inclusive policy to build for the future. We are investing in humanitarian and military activities with 35 military personnel who are trained in human rights and humanitarian law, among other things. We are also pushing Iraq to join the International Criminal Court so that those responsible for these war crimes can be held accountable. If they do not join, it must be done through the UN Security Council. It is extremely important that those who have committed these horrendous and terrible crimes against innocent people should be held to account. We are pushing and looking at this issue as extremely serious. We also have a dialogue with our organisations so that they can reach out to those who need it most. That is the principle that governs humanitarian aid. Otherwise, there is a risk of politicising that aid, and then we are instead pushing for conflict. There is a reason why there is the principle of impartiality in the area of humanitarian aid because otherwise it could be put at greater risk and attack. It can also be taken into account because there are outsiders trying to get involved in conflicts. It is very important to stand up for this principle also to protect our aid workers in the field in very difficult and dangerous environments. Not least in the case of ISIL or Daishockuperat area, it is extremely important that these people at least have an opportunity to reach out to help those who, as Ro b er Hannah describes, live under terrible oppression, threats of violence and vulnerability. On the question of whether genocide is taking place, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in this House that it may be attempted genocide. The important thing is that we should see the crime and that all states have an obligation to protect their citizens.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-125	Madam President, I would like As I said in my first speech, there are no dividing lines at all. I fully support the aid work that Sweden is doing. I'm definitely not talking shit about Sweden's aid. I think it's fantastic and that we can even do more. I am very proud of Sweden's aid work. These are fine words, but in practice they do not reach those most in need of assistance. That is why there are a great many fine words from the Minister for Development, but in practice they mean nothing. We are talking about inclusive politics in Iraq, but it is so sectarian that the groups that do not have their own resources are in practice powerless. They have no power and no position in society. You can treat them the way you want. If these groups do not have a stronger position of power vis-à-vis the large groups, so that they can stand on their own feet and decide for themselves their own fate, they will not remain in the region in the future. That is the simple and harsh truth. Swedish aid is great, but does it arrive in an effective way? No. Then I wonder: Will the Minister for Development or her replacement go down there and see whether the minorities are actually being reached by the aid or how they can be supported? The UN Special Rapporteur points out that these groups need special support in order to survive. It is not some amateur who says so, and it is not something I just stand and say in this House, but it is the UN Special Rapporteur on Minorities who says that this support must be there – otherwise they will not be there. I think what Sweden is doing is fantastic, but if it does not come to light in practice, these groups are disadvantaged. It is also the case that the balance of power is even more uneven if aid does not reach those who are most vulnerable, but only to other groupings. I would really like the Minister for Development to look into this issue in depth.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-130	Madam President, I would like I can assure the honourable Member that Sweden, as one of the world's largest humanitarian donors, is constantly conducting this dialogue with our producer organisations, UN organisations and civil society performers. For example, we have Kvinna till woman, a Swedish organisation that works in the region to strengthen women's rights. We work with media freedom and a wide range of important efforts to build Iraq's society for peace. We are engaged in a dialogue with Prime Minister Abadi and his government to conduct an inclusive policy towards the country's various ethnic and religious minorities. It is extremely central also in the fight against Daish and for the stability of the country and the territorial integrity of Iraq. This also involves the allocation of the budget and the allocation of oil resources. Indeed, many of these minorities are slowly but surely disappearing from the country or being killed. It's a fact. But we are doing what we can on our part to ensure that our support reaches those who most need it. We cannot define this on the basis of ethnic or religious affiliation, but we shall achieve where we can get through with the means we have in a way that does not contribute to conflict but helps people where it goes. I also believe that the political trail is so important. It is important that we conduct this dialogue. It is important that we strengthen Parliament and the Government Office and have a dialogue on what the distribution policy should look like in Iraq in order to have a sustainable democratic society in the long term. Sweden, as I have said before, will stand firm to support Iraq and its minorities.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-133	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me whether I can guarantee that the overrun of funds for the purchase of equipment will not adversely affect or have consequences for the operation of Eksjö garrison from either a short-term or a long-term perspective. He has also asked me if I can explain my view of Eksjö garrison and its activities as well as its part and significance in the Swedish total defence now and in the future. The single most important thing during the defence orientation period 2016 to 2020 is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. The defence decision means financial reinforcement of the defence appropriations. The Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats support the defence agreement and have a common responsibility to care for it. In order to consult on matters relating to it, the five parties supporting the agreement meet regularly in the Defence Group. It is an appropriate forum for assessing both the implementation of the decision and possible consequences based on the development of the world around it. The agreement shows that no bandage closures will be carried out. The government intends to complete the defense agreement. The Swedish Armed Forces have reported in their budget statement for 2017 that there are risks in the planning within the envelope 1:3 Acquisition of materials and facilities. The Swedish Armed Forces' budget base is now being analysed in the Government Office. The Government will take a position on the Swedish Armed Forces' budget base in connection with the budget proposal for 2017. At Eksjö garrison and Göta Engineering Regiment, operations are carried out of high quality, as well as at many other locations within the Swedish Armed Forces. The production of military units, i.e. the two engineer battalions and the 33rd Home Guard battalion, is a central task. During the specialisation period, the ability of the two engineering battalions to support the Brigades' activities shall be developed. The operations at Eksjö garrison are important for the implementation of the defence decision.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-137	Madam President, I would like The background to this interpellation is, as has been said, the fact that the Swedish Armed Forces' funding for equipment is greatly exceeded, especially in the case of JAS 39 E and the two types of submarine A 26 and Gotland, with several billions, due to various increases, changes in exchange rates and incorrect calculations. Against this background, the Swedish Armed Forces as a whole have repeatedly made it clear in various contexts that it considers it necessary to redistribute military appropriations from the unit and training activities to the material account. Madam President, I would like When the Swedish Armed Forces handed over their budget base on 28 February, it was very true that they wanted to take money from the unit and exercise operations in order to finance the purchase of equipment. In addition to this, the ÖB notes that this risks having consequences for the capacity building of the units. Madam President, I would like In the event of any cuts in the unit business, it goes without saying that you first look at small units, such as Eksjö garrison in my own constituency Jönköping County. Seen in this perspective, it is therefore crucial to uphold the defence agreement that was reached in 2015 and which, as the Minister for Defence stated, states that no bandage closures will be carried out. It is for this reason that I have asked the Minister for Defence, on the one hand, whether he can guarantee that the overrun of funds for the purchase of equipment will not have negative consequences for the operation of Eksjö garrison from either a short-term or a long-term perspective, and, on the other hand, asked the Minister for Defence to present his view of Eksjö garrison and its activities and its part and significance in the Swedish total defence now and in the future. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Before we go further in this debate, I would like to say that I take it as an expensive and sacred promise from Peter Hultqvist that, in the period covered by the defence agreement, any closures or successive de facto closures will never be taken into account bit by bit, and that this is not on the map at all, Madam President. I see this as an explicit guarantee from Peter Hultqvist. If I am not to see it as a promise, I wish him to clarify it here and now, Madam President.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-142	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the question of the Swedish Armed Forces wanting to take money from unit and exercise activities to be able to finance the purchase of equipment, it is right that such a budget base was submitted on 28 February. However, the supplementary budget, which came a month later, withdrew that proposal. I say this to clarify fundamental facts, so that we do not turn the debate in a direction that is not correct. With regard to the presumed or potential cost and overruns of submarines and JAS Gripen, I would just like to say that no such things have so far been realised. Then major development projects are always associated with certain risks. But we are following these projects very closely. Any costs must be dealt with, either through changes in the projects or by otherwise remedying the situation. As regards, for example, the submarine side, the government itself has set a limit of 8.2 billion for the order and in its decision specified that in case of risk of exceeding that framework, changes will take place within the framework of the project. That is the focus. I choose not to speculate on any cost and the possible consequences it could have in terms of material supply before there is relevant and final evidence to consider. Perhaps it is not the case that, at first, all the media data and all the information that goes around in the terrain should be bought just straight off. Perhaps we should wait for the process and the processing that always takes place on this type of data before we take them as final and unambiguous truth. When it comes to Eksjö garrison, it is not news that we are not planning any bandage closures. This is not news to me at all. It was a deal that we made and which the Parliament also confirmed by a decision last June. If this is to be presented as a huge news item in connection with the debate, there is probably reason to go back to when we made the decision in Parliament last year. That's when we laid down that part. It is on the basis of what I am saying here that there are no bandage closures. I used exactly the same wording as Sten Tolgfors once did in response to another similar interpellation about the defence decision for which he was responsible. I do not formulate myself uniquely, in terms of news or dramatic. I am just starting from an account of what Parliament has decided. As far as Eksjö garrison is concerned, the focus will be on supporting the two brigades that we have through the decision of focus, which has a stronger national dimension than before. In this context, it is about working with field work such as bridge laying, clearing and protection measures. This is the kind of focus that needs to be given greater weight in the business. It's about developing the war units. That's what's in focus. In this sense, the activities in Eksjö will also have a change of direction.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-148	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that you should not go on mass media data. Then I could have asked a lot of questions here. What I am going on, of course, are the proposals that the Swedish Armed Forces themselves have made in a number of different contexts. We have received a proposal to withdraw the previous reasoning on the impact on the unit activities. Then the Commander-in-Chief has also stated in writing that it may have implications for unit operations. It is the variety of messages that make me a little afraid to take something for granted, Madam President. Once again, I assume that the Minister for Defence has made a clear promise that there will be no closure or discussion of the closure of any unit in general and, in particular, of Eksjö garrison. It is also good that Peter Hultqvist stated what we know. At Eksjö garrison and Göta Engineering Regiment, that is Ing 2, a high-quality operation is conducted with the production of war units. This applies to the two engineering battalions and the 33rd Home Guard battalion and is a central task. The ability of the two engineering battalions to support the brigades' activities develops during the specialisation period. This is particularly true, as the Minister for Defence concluded, that the operation of Eksjö garrison is important for the implementation of the defence decision. Madam President, I would like In this connection, I would also like to highlight what the Minister for Defence does not mention in relation to Eksjö garrison, namely Totalförsvaret's ammunition and mine clearance centre, Swedec, whose importance cannot really be overestimated internationally. This concerns the security and security of both Swedish troops and other countries' troops on foreign missions as well as war-torn civilian populations. But above all, Madam President, it is our own opportunity to deal with terrorism and acts of violence here at home in Sweden today and in the future. I would also like to make it clear that on this particular issue I do not see that the problem lies with the Minister for Defence. I respect Peter Hultqvist's ambitions and his good will. The main cause for concern lies in one half of the government in the form of the Green Party. I am worried when I hear from there statements from high-level representatives about the defence where it and its future are being called into question. I am concerned both for the defence and for Eksjö garrison, Madam President, when I hear voices both inside and outside the Riksdag from high current government representatives from the Green Party that they want to increase their already great influence in the government. Therefore, I honestly feel that, as a representative of both Eksjö and Jönköping County, I do not dare to take anything for granted. Again: Is it to be understood as a promise, just as it was to perceive as a promise from the former Minister of Defence, that there will be no bandage closures or any negative consequences for Eksjö garrison? I would like a clear answer to that.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-156	Madam President, I would like A debate must not reach the point where the questions ultimately seem almost meaningless to answer. I have made it clear that we have a decision in the Riksdag from June last year where we say that no bandage closures should take place. It is a five-party agreement, and it also applies to the Green Party. I have said what can be said on the matter. We're not planning closures. It's not about me standing here promising one thing or the other. It's about the Riksdag having decided. Your party has been involved in deciding and making a defence agreement also with the Green Party, Mats Green. I do not understand the discussion about the Green Party being a problem with the defence agreement. If they have settled this, it is for those as it is for us and for you, and as it is for the Center and the KD. Here you have to respect everyone who has made a deal and not keep discussing it like someone would sneak out of it. For me, it is very important that all parties that have done it stand for it until 2020. I have no indication whatsoever that anyone is failing in this context. It is the agreement itself that is the basis for not planning any bandage closures and not for me to stand here today and make some kind of news-like promise. The information that needs to be given in this context was already completed in June last year. As far as Swedec is concerned, I have no other opinion than that it is an important centre of competence that is essential for the Swedish Armed Forces and for both our operations in relation to other countries and our own national needs. As I say, a re-weighting of the operations of the entire Swedish Armed Forces also has effects for Eksjö garrison. If you focus more on the national with bridge-laying, clearing and protective measures and so on, it may be that other parts of the business are reduced to some extent. When one makes such a change in the balances internally in an operation, there will be changes. But these are things that you have to take a stand on in the Armed Forces. It is about how it should be implemented, what it should look like and how the balances should be designed based on the direction we have given. We are currently in an extensive transition throughout the Swedish Armed Forces where we go from a very pronounced international operational perspective to a national perspective. That is not to say that we should not participate in various types of international operations in any way, as we do. As for the purchase of equipment, you used the wording that the grant has been exceeded by several billion, Mats Green. I can only note that the appropriations we are talking about for 2015 were exceeded by SEK 62 million, which is within the margin of the appropriations. We have not exceeded any funding by several billion SEK; it is not correct to conduct the debate in this way. However, we see risks for the future, but we do not see realised costs. What we do is constantly work to counter any risks and manage them.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-163	Madam President, I would like What we are discussing are the risks that the Swedish Armed Forces themselves have seen and explained in the debate. That's what it's all about. Of course you should honor agreements. That's, as it were, my line. We've always done that from the Moderates, and we've always done that from the Alliance. That is precisely why I am concerned when I hear statements from senior representatives of the Green Party. The Secretary of Defense is confidently speaking about the Green Party. I admire him for that. There are not many, especially environmentalists themselves, who speak so confidently anymore. Again, I assume that the defence agreement that we have reached is maintained regardless of what some leading environmental partners say. Madam President, I would like Some of the experience I think you can never really take anything for granted when it comes to the units we have in our constituencies. If one ever began to change the unit business in Sweden in the form of starting to cut back on it, it is always the smallest units that are the most vulnerable. The Minister of Defence will have to prepare for me still to stand in this pulpit and safeguard the activities that are now at Eksjö garrison and hopefully also the activities that will come there in the future. I don't think this is going to be the last time we're discussing this. I hope that all parts of the government will stand up for the defence agreement that we have reached. The Moderates and the other alliance parties that are in it will do so; I can guarantee that.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-168	Madam President, I would like One can of course choose different perspectives in a debate: one can use a debate to find a solution to a problem, and one can use a debate to spread concerns and a picture that there are enormous risks. I choose to believe that all parties who have made the deal stick to it and stand for it. So far, I have not received any indication that any part of the deal has fallen away. If you have that perspective, you have somehow shown that you have confidence in everyone's handshake. I think that's important. I tend to be more attached to what you do than to what people who may not be directly responsible for defence issues say. What other debaters say is one thing, but what those who have made the deal say is what is important. That is what applies in the parliamentary decision, and that is what is important. I cannot accuse the Green Party of not having complied with agreements in any sense, and I will not accuse anyone else either. I fully understand that we here in Parliament will have debates on various things. However, if we have now said that we have reached an agreement and signalled that no bandages should be closed, this must apply. It takes a parliamentary decision to close a unit, and there is no such issue raised at all. It has not been brought to the political surface in any context in which I have participated at all. The only thing I am involved in is the implementation of the defence decision. I am trying to face up to the various problems that exist in these contexts, and there have not been any bandage closures mentioned at all. Let's get back to work and see to it that the defense decision is fulfilled. Then we shall act in such a way that together, all five parties, we stick together and bring this to fruition. It is the best thing for the stability of defence and security policy.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-173	Madam President, I would like Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me if I believe that the government has made a delimitation of the mandate of the Swedish negotiation, which leaves out the push trains and whether or not I am prepared, and in what way, to make it clear that Sweden's negotiation can also cover issues related to public transport that are presented on state infrastructure, for example the push trains. Directives and additional directives for the Swedish negotiations were adopted by the previous government on 1 July 2014 and 17 July 2014 respectively. The current government has not amended the directives. With regard to the mandate for action in large cities, the directives indicate that the negotiating person should enter into agreements with the municipalities, county councils and other relevant stakeholders on measures where state involvement can be justified as a complement to local and regional measures. I see no reason at this stage to anticipate the outcome of the negotiations. As far as I am aware, negotiations with municipalities and regions have just begun, and the subjects put forward by the negotiator at this stage may, together with local and regional actors, be discussed and tested until agreements have been reached. An interim report on the metropolitan measures shall be submitted on 1 June 2016. The entire assignment shall be reported on 31 December 2017.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-175	Madam President, I would like This interpellation debate is about the Swedish negotiation, which was originally called the construction of Sweden. The Swedish negotiation comprises six different parts, where the part about the metropolitan measures is one. The purpose of these measures is to achieve better public transport, improved accessibility and increased housing construction in Sweden's three metropolitan regions: Stockholm, Gothenburg and the Öresund region, or rather the Swedish part of the Öresund region, i.e. Skåne. The state will be co-financing public transport investments here in exchange for the counterparty's commitment to build a certain number of homes. In the bids that are now available from the Swedish hearing, Stockholm receives investments in the order of SEK 25 billion. On top of that, the Eastern Connection road project can be put in place, with an additional 18 to 19 billion. For Skåne, the bid is investments corresponding to approximately 6.5 billion for trams. These are in themselves welcome initiatives in Lund, Malmö and Helsingborg. Gothenburg's bid is about 6 billion, also for different trams. It can be noted that the bids relating to the Stockholm region in round rolls are at least twice as large as for Gothenburg and Skåne together. When it comes to Skåne specifically called our – I myself come from Skåne – equivalent to the metro on the train. Skåne has a multi-core structure. This means that Skåne is not centered around a single city, as is the case with Stockholm and Gothenburg. Instead, we have several major centres, and the labour market thus looks a little different. The commuting takes place in different places. The logic will be a little different. In Skåne, the train is equivalent to the subway. It is therefore relevant to make a comparison with Stockholm's initiatives, where you choose to prioritise three different metro lines and trams. The crucial question is whether there are opportunities in the negotiations to make train charges. I think the Minister for Infrastructure is somewhat unclear about this in his response. On the one hand, the Minister states that there are no restrictions in the mandate. On the other hand, it is claimed in Sweden that such a delimitation exists. The Minister then says that she does not want to anticipate the outcome of the negotiations, because new proposals can be made and tested until agreements have been reached. If, however, the question of the train cannot even be put on the negotiating table, it will be a little difficult to negotiate these projects. I think it is urgent that the Minister for Infrastructure should actually clarify what is going on. I agree that the directive is clear. But if the person who works with Sweden does not understand that it is clear and uses the argument that this kind of state infrastructure should not be included in the negotiation, we still have a problem. If the Minister for Infrastructure agrees with me, I find it difficult to see why it would be a problem for her to clarify this.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-182	Madam President, I would like I do not think I was very unclear in my answer. The answer is clear: there is no such limitation in the directive to the negotiator. I can read aloud from the directive. It says this: Within the framework of the assignment, the negotiating person will identify and analyse the needs for measures in the infrastructure in Skåne County that cost-effectively improve the accessibility and capacity of the transport system and lead to increased housing construction with a focus on resource efficiency, sustainability and densification. Trimming and non-investment measures may also be included in the analysis. Major actions will mainly be implemented in the period 2025 – 2035. Furthermore, it states that the negotiator shall enter into agreements with the municipalities, county councils and other relevant actors and counties on measures with the above-mentioned purpose and in contexts where state involvement can be justified as a complement to local and regional measures. The focus should be on addressing the challenges of rapid population growth. The agreements shall include burden-sharing in case of any cost increases in addition to index-regulated increases. The agreements shall be concluded subject to subsequent judicial trials and the approval of the Government and, where appropriate, the Riksdag. So the answer is clear. With all due respect, I question the assertion that the negotiators have claimed that there is such a expressed limitation in the mission. On the other hand, the negotiators themselves, with their mandate, have made a balance and an assessment of what is an appropriate entry into a negotiation. What will continue to be possible to negotiate will be a discussion for the hearing as there are always at least two parties in a negotiation. In this case, there are two parties. What the parties choose to put on the table to negotiate is, of course, up to them to deal with within the framework of the task of the Swedish hearing. It is also possible to imagine that the other party will make a contribution, and then it is up to the negotiators to decide whether or not they are interested in continuing to discuss such solutions. I would also like to question whether the whole of Skåne is a metropolitan area. It is certainly true that Skåne is a multi-core region, but what is above all the merit of the vigour trains is that they connect more sparsely populated parts of Skåne with the great opportunities for jobs that exist in the metropolitan regions and thus make both jobs and other opportunities available to more people. That is what has been the positive thing about the development of the train over time. This does not mean, however, that all parts of Skåne can be said to be a big city. I hope we can agree on that. I have full confidence that the negotiators and counterparts in the form of municipalities and county councils will be able to come to wise agreements with a good balance between state co-financing, state commitment and municipal or regionally so.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-189	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer and clarification. There is a risk of being words against words here, but the message I get from Skåne is that you cannot put the vigour into this discussion on the grounds that this type of state infrastructure should not be involved in this negotiation. The Minister of Infrastructure may choose to say that she does not believe it. Another way is to be very clear and tell us that now it is the case that this type of action can certainly be included in the negotiation. Then I think you do what you can on the part of the government. If those in charge of the hearing do not adapt to it, then you must draw new conclusions in the next step. It gets a little strange, I think, when the Minister for Infrastructure goes into a discussion about this with the metropolitan area. Of course, Skåne as a whole is not a big city. It is not the whole Stockholm or Gothenburg region either. It is clear that there is a center in these parts, but the difference between Skåne, Gothenburg and Stockholm is that Skåne has several different urban areas and that commuting takes place in a slightly different way. But it is possible to compare the subway and the train, i.e. the possibility of commuting into central parts, and in Skåne's case it happens to be several different centres and not just one. I still find it difficult to understand why the government is ducking on the issue of clarifying the mandate that exists here. If we agree that the mandate exists, the government should be able to be clear and say so as well. Is it permitted or is it not allowed to include the escapades in this discussion? I think it would be good to have a straight answer to this from the Minister for Infrastructure. This issue has been the subject of some discussion here earlier this year. Then it was about what restrictions exist or not in the Swedish negotiation. I would like to quote the Minister for Infrastructure: This is what the Minister for Infrastructure has said in a previous debate on this issue. I understand clearly that it is so in the discussion in Skåne that there are different opinions about what can and cannot be included in these negotiations. That is precisely why it would be nice if the Minister for Infrastructure wanted to be clear and answer straight to the question: Is it permitted or not allowed to include the push train in this negotiation?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-195	Madam President, I would like As I said in my previous reply and as it says in the written reply, there are no such restrictions in the assignment to the Swedish hearing. It should then reasonably mean that it is permitted to discuss many different variants. The step from there to the fact that the government, with a government decision, would define which measures could be considered for the negotiation is quite large. I'm not prepared to take that step. I have not received any signals from either the Swedish hearing or its counterparts that there would be a lack of clarity in the mandate of the hearing. The fact that I am prepared to review the mandate of the Swedish hearing is based on the fact that in that case I receive a clear signal from those involved in the discussions – and of course primarily from the hearing itself. If they were to ask for clarification of their mandate, I am, of course, prepared to do so. I have not received such a request, and I think it may be because it is quite clear that there is no such limitation in the mission.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-198	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure. I choose to interpret this positively. I think it's a pretty clear message I'm getting from the Minister for Infrastructure. I am not asking the government to point out the specific objects, but the important thing is to make it clear that there is no such restriction as according to the information I have presented in the Swedish hearing. I take the view that the Minister for Infrastructure is clear. She is happy to underline this once again in her last reply. It is therefore permissible to include this part of the matter of the pauper trains in the negotiation. If that can be clear, I'm very pleased. This is of course important, because it is about enabling housing construction, and it is especially important in the situation that Sweden finds itself in. We expect an extensive population increase in Skåne in the coming years, so it is very important that this can come into place. I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his reply and for the debate, and I would like the Minister once again to be clear that these projects are allowed to enter into the negotiations.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-201	Madam President, I would like First of all, it can be said that the need to build more homes has been precipitating for quite a long time. Now we see that the construction of housing is finally taking off and that we are reaching the highest levels in several decades. That is very pleasing. This is not enough, because the housing shortage is even greater than what the higher pace of construction is capable of feeding, but it is at least a clear trend that is moving in the right direction. I find that extremely pleasing. I can be clear again. There is no such limitation in the mission. It is not the same as that the Swedish hearing is interested in discussing all the things that are not formally inadmissible to discuss. However, the Swedish hearing has a mandate to do a delimitation of what one considers appropriate objects or appropriate measures to discuss within the framework of such a negotiation. What I am responding to is what the directive says, and the directive does not impose such limitations. I have full confidence in both the Swedish negotiations and the negotiators there as well as their counterparts. They will come up with the best solutions for both future housing construction and mobility in metropolitan areas.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-204	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me what assessments I and the Ministry of Finance make of the impact of increased costs for older people in the labour force, if I believe that Sweden needs increased labour force participation in order to maintain well-being and which reforms should be implemented to achieve this. One of the starting points of government policy is that everyone's skills should be taken into account as long as they want and can work. With regard to the reason why people choose to retire, statistics from Statistics Sweden, Statistics Sweden, show that it is mainly the will or physical health that is lacking, not the demand of employers. In order to get more older people to work longer, the working environment needs to be improved and work-related ill-health prevented. This is why the Government has carried out initiatives in areas such as the Swedish Work Environment Authority, regional safety representatives and work life research. A sustainable working life is also one of the areas of the Government's occupational health and safety strategy for modern working life 2016 – 2020. In addition, the Government has implemented efforts to improve quality and staffing in elderly care. These are initiatives that will lead to more people in care for the elderly being able to and want to stay longer in work and also to fewer people, especially women, having to go down working hours to take care of their elderly relatives. Evaluations show that reductions in social security contributions, in general, are ineffective as job creation measures. Moreover, the economic drivers for continuing to work after 65 years remain strong as a result of the pension system and the design of the tax system.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-208	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for a committed response! The Alliance pursued an intensive policy to allow more older people to stay longer in the labour force. It was about working with the work environment. It was about giving people solid driving forces to stay longer in their working lives, for example through a reinforced job tax credit. It also made it considerably cheaper to hire people who have turned 65. It was also about measures that made older workers more attractive, such as RUT deductions, ROT deductions and other things. More or less all of these measures are under sharp attack from the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. What was the result of the policy pursued by the Alliance? Well, Sweden stood out as one of the countries, or perhaps even as that country, where older people's participation in the labour force increased most and where the employment rate among people who have turned 65 was strengthened. The Minister of Finance concludes that these are ineffective measures and so on. Then one has to ask: What have other countries done better? Or what could Sweden do better? It may be difficult to find such measures, the Finance Minister, given that Sweden stands out as the country that has succeeded if not best among the very best countries in breaking this. The Minister for Finance's response is empty on proposals for action and concrete reforms. This is worrying given the demographic trends, Madam President. According to the Institute for Future Studies, the demographic dependency ratio develops roughly from 0.7 to 0.9. What does that mean in practice? This means that the approximately 70 people who, for one reason or another, are inactive and need livelihoods and who are supported by 100 people will instead be 90. Thus, 100 people who work will go from providing 70 people to providing 90 people, in a relatively short period of time. We are facing a very dramatic change in a short time. It can, of course, be solved in different ways. Immigration to Sweden is a way of solving this, provided that people enter the labour force. But another way is to make sure that you get into the labour force sooner and stay longer. It is, of course, a good thing that various kinds of measures are taken to improve the working environment. But it is also important to look at other measures in terms of change, driving forces to acquire a new education, opportunities for other career paths and so on. It is not certain that in 10, 20, 30 or 40 years you will have the work you have right now. Then it does not help to adapt that particular workplace, although it may make sense to do so. It is also important to look at driving forces for individuals to acquire other skills and career paths. None of this is reflected in the response of the Minister for Finance. Madam President, I would like This raises the question of how the Minister of Finance thinks that welfare should be financed in the long term if measures are not taken to change demographic conditions. Our neighbour Finland, for example, is ahead of us in demographic developments in the sense that the problems are now coming much faster there. There you see very big problems with how to manage to finance welfare over time. We have the same challenge ahead of us in Sweden. This meets the Minister for Finance with a relatively tired argumentation about investments at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Sounds rhetorically good, Minister of Finance. However, the question is how many people believe that the very large demographic change will be solved by investing in the Swedish Work Environment Authority. A reasonable assessment and a reasonable conclusion, as leading assessors and researchers do, is that major measures are needed to encourage people to want to work longer.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-217	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman wonders how welfare will be financed in the long term. One answer to that question is clear: it is not by massively reducing taxes that we will be able to finance welfare. On the contrary, we need tax revenue to finance welfare. If the Chief Tax Policy spokesperson of the Moderates believes that welfare should be financed through reduced taxes, I am very worried. Then the labour supply effect would have to be so great that tax cuts are self-financing. There are no studies to suggest that the special wage tax for older people would be self-financing in any way. Lower taxes lead to lower tax revenues and thus to lower welfare. That's what the connection looks like. It is clear to the vast majority, but not to Niklas Wykman. Compared to other countries, we have a high employment rate in Sweden among older people over 60 but also over 65. The big difference is that women participate in the labour market in a different way than in other countries. If we compare women's participation in the labour market in Sweden with many other countries, we can see that it is not low taxes that distinguish Sweden, but that is what we use our tax revenues for. Well-functioning childcare and parental insurance mean that women remain in work when they form a family. Well - functioning care for the elderly results in women continuing to work even when their parents or in - law parents grow older and need care. But the active work we do in Sweden in terms of the working environment is also important. These are exactly the things the government wants to reinforce to make sure that more older people can and want to work further up the age range. It is about having a well-functioning and systematic work environment work. We invest extra on the occupational safety representatives. We are beginning to strengthen research into the working environment. It is also important to have a clear strategy for health and safety at work so that you can work together. This applies, of course, both to the public and to the employers' partners, in order to get the broad focus on the working environment. The welfare efforts we are making will also be central to the fact that more older people, many of them women, will be able to continue working well up in their ages.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-222	Madam President, I would like The multiplication table is taught in primary school, the Minister of Finance. Even under the worst of the Social Democrats, education in multiplication has not been abolished in school. Then it is that if 100 people work and pay 10 SEK in tax they have received 1 000 SEK in tax payments. But if 120 people work and pay SEK 9 in tax, they have received SEK 1,080 in tax. Then you have received 80 SEK more in tax due to more people working. The job tax deduction, for example, provides 100 000 – 130 000 more jobs. Then the tax burden can be a little lower while actually getting more money. The Minister for Finance is in the speaker's chair and seriously believes that tax revenues are falling with the Alliance's policy. This is a purely factual error. If the newspapers had kept the fact check, the Minister of Finance would have got the front page with a red light. Tax revenue grew. They increased during the alliance government because more people came to work. But the Minister of Finance has no problem getting red light when it comes to the facts in these cases. The Minister of Finance! It was also the case that welfare efforts could increase under the alliance government – I think the Minister of Finance knows that. The cost of welfare could increase by between SEK 40 billion and SEK 70 billion because more people got into work and because less money was spent on things that were not part of the core mission of welfare. Sticking to the truth, Madam President, is an important feature of policy debates. A trick you can use as a politician when you have nothing to say is to talk very much in the hope that it is not noticed. This interpellation, Madam President, is about how more people will remain in working life further into their ages. The Alliance government implemented measures aimed at strengthening the employment tax credit and at making it cheaper to hire people aged 65 or over. The Alliance government also increased demand for this type of labour force with RUT and ROT deductions. For example, veteran pools received many assignments thanks to it. There, people could have given their work capacity and ability to stay longer in their working lives. Almost all of these measures are under strong attack from the Minister of Finance. Instead, the Minister of Finance refers to efforts made by various authorities. Is there anyone out here who believes that real driving forces to work – opportunities to keep a little more in your wallet or, for that matter, that it becomes more attractive to hire someone who is 65 – can be replaced with investments in the Swedish Work Environment Authority? In such cases, one can agree with the Minister for Finance. If you do not believe it, you can instead think that your own work should pay off, that someone should also want to ask for it and that there should be a match in between. If we believe that this is more effective than some efforts on the part of the authorities, then the Finance Minister's reasoning simply does not hold up. In the election campaign, Madam President, there were many fine gold-edged words from the Social Democrats about entrepreneurial investment. For example, it would remove the liability for sickness pay. Now we see how sickness pay responsibility is expanded. It is a historical betrayal of job creation in Sweden, where the promise portfolio states that it promises to make it cheaper to cope with the problem of sick pay. Instead, it makes it considerably more expensive. Another example is how those affected by this interpellation have been treated, namely the seniors. Tax cuts were promised, but tax and tax increases amounted to 11⁄2 billion. And nearly 2 billion of them are surgically focused on older people's employment.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-230	Madam President, I would like I have noted that the Moderates are diligent in interpelling the Minister of Finance. That is good for Parliament. During the last parliamentary term, Niklas Wykman had to write an interpellation response. Now he can write interpellations. He does so with about the same success and finesse, and I hope he will continue to write interpellations for all time to come. Madam President, I would like There is a systematic approach in all interpellations. It is pushing that the government, with the Finance Minister in charge, has failed in employment policy. There is only one problem with that for your Moderates, and that is reality. You said you would create new jobs and remove mass unemployment. What happened over eight years was that unemployment rose from 260 000 to 400 000. The instruments you used were one-sided: lower the tax to lower the rate of wages! Whip people who are not in work by reducing unemployment insurance and health insurance! All the time it is a question of supply policy and of whipping people into an undeveloped labour market. Social democracy has a completely different approach to economic policy and the labour market. The industrial policy that you failed to spell out is now starting to have an effect. The labour market policy that you dismantled in favour of phase 3 is now being replaced by skills development and training rather than pointless storage. When I'm out in the business world in my Småland and elsewhere, almost all the companies are talking about having problems recruiting skilled workers. That, Niklas Wykman and the Moderates, is your great debt after eight years of dismantling labour market policies and skills development. Now you continue in the same spirit by saying that unemployment would be reduced if people's security were reduced. On the contrary – and that is your problem with reality – unemployment is now falling. It is declining for young people, quickly, and for the long-term unemployed. Employment is increasing. The model of social democracy is safe workplaces and safe people. It is a policy that goes in and supports, facilitates and trains instead of storing. It creates demand instead of whipping. It is the Swedish model, Niklas Wykman, and you do not know what it is.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-236	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman is trying to claim that I am just standing here making up the fact that tax cuts do not lead to increased tax revenues. Niklas Wykman doesn't just have to listen to me. There is quite a consensus that this is the case. For example, one can look at the evaluations made of the increased employment tax credit for older people and the special wage tax. They do not at all show any degree of self-financing, i.e. that it would bring as much labour supply gains as the cost of implementing it. For example, IFAU has carried out an evaluation which says that it would require excessive employment effects in order for it to be self-financing and that it is a very expensive way of trying to raise employment among older people. Here's the thing about this government. For us, it is important that we use taxpayers' money in the most effective way and that we are careful with public finances. But here we differ from the Moderates, who continued with large unfunded tax cuts even though we entered a better economic situation. Then they left behind very large budget deficits that we in the government have had to deal with and have also managed to bring down, and that is, of course, very good. But if Niklas Wykman really believes that reduced taxes give very much increased tax revenue, I wonder: Why didn't they go to elections on it in 2014?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-240	Madam President, I would like There is a crucial difference between the Alliance and the Moderates on the one hand and the Minister of Finance and the Green Party on the other. It is that the Moderates and the Alliance take responsibility for Swedish public finances. In all the years of alliance governance, a policy was pursued in accordance with the fiscal framework, which received much praise and attention internationally. Sweden was called the nordic light, for example. After this Minister of Finance has taken office, the Council of Finance Ministers has said that fiscal policy is in breach of the fiscal framework. No other Swedish finance minister has received such criticism. Magdalena Andersson is in such measure one of a kind, the first to seriously violate the Swedish public financial framework. Magdalena Andersson also makes a grave misinterpretation here, knowingly of course, when she claims that these reforms would be self-financing. I've never said that. No one has claimed that in this pulpit, as I am familiar with. It goes without saying, Madam President, that there is a cost in changing from retiring at 65 to retiring above the age range. The question is, Madam President, whether this is a long-term reasonable and good investment for Swedish society – and that is it, because over time we need to stay longer in the workforce. Nor does the Minister of Finance present any more cost-effective measures for this. The cost-effective measures are absent. On the other hand, tax revenues increased during the alliance years. In the local government sector, where most of the wealth is financed, they increased greatly – from approximately SEK 450 billion to SEK 600 billion. This increase of 150 billion where welfare is financed is what the Minister of Finance calls a reduction in tax revenue. That's not true.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-245	Madam President, I would like There's a point out there, beyond the Ministry of Finance, beyond the framework. They're kids. It's old. It's school, and it's care for the elderly. Your tax cuts of SEK 140 billion, Niklas Wykman, created year after year reductions in the public sector. You can stand around with a few billions, but that didn't cover the wage increases and the prices. Now we have a government that actually spends 10 new, healthy billions each year on the common side. Then you'll be silent Moderates. Instead, together with friends in the Alliance, you repeat a new tax reduction mat about 30 to 60 billion depending on who gets to decide the most, and it usually is the Moderates. Then I would like to say one thing about the talk that we have to work longer. Has Niklas Wykman been to a paper mill, a building house or a retirement home? Ask them if they can work until 65! That is an important thing for us Social Democrats. You pulled down at the Swedish Work Environment Agency by a third. You shut down the Work Life Institute. Such questions were not important. Now we are restoring resources to both these areas, to your despair. You cry with gods that don't exist, Niklas Wykman. You can never hide your failure for eight years.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-249	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman continues to argue, if I understood correctly, that these measures were self-financing in the longer term. However, I do not see any evidence to suggest that the very large tax cuts carried out by the Alliance in the long term would have such an effect on employment that they are actually self-financing. Then I think it is better as Lars Calmfors says: If you now want more job tax deductions, it is more honest to say that it costs but that you think it is worth it. It is felt that job tax deductions are more important than welfare. It is a better argument, according to Professor Lars Calmfors, and I may think that there is a part in it. Niklas Wykman is asking what the government is doing. I've told you about a lot of cost-effective measures. We have tried to look at the alliance reforms that were carried out and that were very expensive and very ineffective to see if we can work more effectively. We have done this, for example, in the case of young people, where instead of the very expensive and inefficient employer's contribution reduction implemented by the Alliance, we are working in a more cost-effective way for young people to get to work, including with the 90-day guarantee. This also seems to have an effect, because we see that youth unemployment is falling very sharply. Even when it comes to the elderly, we try to work with more cost-effective measures. I have mentioned some of them several times. It is about having systematic work environment work, strengthening the Swedish Work Environment Agency, strengthening work life research, strengthening safety representatives and also strengthening welfare so that both those who work in welfare and those who depend on it can continue to work well up in their ages.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-253	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me how I estimate that reduced VAT on repairs can be cheaper than the RUT deduction. Helena Bouveng has also asked me to what extent I believe that reduced VAT on repairs contributes to the Government's election promise that Sweden will have Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020. Niklas Wykman has asked me how I see the direction of the government's budgetary cooperation, in which targets for re-use are allowed to crowd out reforms with positive employment effects. The government has more policy objectives, one of which is the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020 and another is a better environment. The fact that the government has more objectives for its policy is also reflected in the policy pursued. The reduced VAT on minor repairs is mainly aimed at increasing incentives to repair or modify goods already manufactured rather than to buy new ones. Repairing and reuse of goods is estimated to lead to improved resource management and to a reduction in the environmental burden from the production of new goods. In addition, the proposal is also expected to lead to a slight increase in sustainable employment and contribute to lower unemployment in the economy as a whole. As regards the Bankruptcy Institute's assessments of the RUT deduction, they expressed in the consultation response to the changes in the RUT deduction that they shared the Government's assessment that the changes would have only minor negative effects on employment in the longer term. In addition, the Economic Institute estimated that the changes would have a limited impact on the demand for RUT services.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-257	Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Minister for Finance says that the Red-Green Government has more policy objectives, one of which is the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020 and another is a better environment. No bad targets at all, Madam President, but setting targets is not enough. They must also be fulfilled, otherwise it will only be beautiful words or broken electoral promises. With regard to the EU's lowest unemployment, which was a priority for the Social Democratic Government, I wonder how much of Sweden's population believes in that promise with the policy now being pursued. Although Sweden is now entering a boom, employment is declining in 2017, and equilibrium unemployment is rising. The fact that Sweden needs reforms that lead to more people getting jobs, not fewer, is fairly obvious. Not only are large parts of Sweden's population concerned. The Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance Ministers also consider that the government's measures reinforce the problems. Missing reforms to strengthen employment and reduce exclusion are replaced by reforms that both boost and make it difficult for new jobs to grow, reforms that make it less and less profitable to move from dependency to a job. Madam President, I would like In the proposed spring bill, we find the negotiated part with us alliance parties regarding the increased number of services covered by the possibility of RUT deduction, including floating services, simpler IT services and simpler gardening services. Of course, we think that's great. It can open up because people from different backgrounds have a chance to get their first job and that more categories of people outside the labour market get a foot in again. At the same time, the red-green government has halved the ceiling for the RUT deduction, which prevents more people from getting a first job to go to. In his reply, the Minister of Finance himself refers to the Conjunkturinstitutet's assessment that the halving of the RUT deduction would have only minor negative effects on employment in the longer term. Should not the response to the government's proposals instead be an assessment by the Institute of Economic Development that it has a major positive impact on employment? Are small negative effects on employment something the Minister of Finance is satisfied with? Is this the way to Europe's lowest unemployment in 2020, when according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, among other things, 460,000 new jobs are needed by 2020 if the goal is to be achieved?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-263	Madam President, I would like The tax system should be handled with great care, with great care and with great care. It should be easy to use and give good effect. We have seen how Magdalena Andersson, in her previous assignments for social democratic governments, has acted seriously recklessly, which has had very great negative consequences. This was what was done in 2003 with nutritional shares that led to large tax evasion from Sweden and large tax evasion. This is what was done with the 3:12 framework 2005/06, which according to ESO and other evaluators led to large income transformation. There was nothing to do with positive employment effects. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance drilled into the tax system and tax revenues with a percussion drill and drained the tax system on legitimacy, credibility and revenue. It is therefore so worrying that Magdalena Andersson picks up the trend of not managing the tax system responsibly. The tax system is used as a playhouse for the Green Party instead of the central source of revenue it is to fund our welfare services. The tax system is used to make deductions probably at some party board meeting in a smoked Södermalms hall for repairs. The Minister for Finance himself says that the tax credit is certainly complicated, expensive and does not lead to any jobs, but it may make it easier to repair certain electronic goods. Most experts argue that it does not represent any environmental benefit at all, but instead leads to a deterioration of the environment as old machines contain more toxins and also have a higher energy consumption. Mr President, I would like to This is when one becomes concerned about how the Minister of Finance manages the tax system, how she takes responsibility for the effectiveness of the measures she presents, provides as many jobs as possible, has as good an environmental impact as possible and should not only be used to stimulate the government's cooperation parties or the social democrats' cooperation parties in the government. Mr President, I would like to Is it reasonable for the Minister of Finance to allow the Green Party to enter the core of Swedish government in this way? The Green Party is manipulating the tax system in a way that does not have positive employment effects, which, by far, have unclear environmental impacts, which lead to increased hassle, increased workload for tax authorities and do not provide jobs. Is that how social democrats around the country want the tax system to be used? Should not the tax system be used to secure revenue for the common, to encourage jobs, entrepreneurship, growth and investment? Is it reasonable for such a small party as the Green Party, with so much hesitation around it, to get into the core of Swedish government and use the tax system to achieve its own party's great wishes but with no positive socio-economic effects? Mr President, I would like to Should not a finance minister put his foot down and say that the tax system should be used to secure revenue for welfare? Furthermore, the system will be designed in such a way that there will be as high growth as possible in Sweden and as many jobs as possible in Sweden. Now, instead, we have a finance minister who has released a proposal which she herself says has no positive effects on jobs. The Minister of Finance says that the government has many different objectives for its policy. It is an easy way of saying that a little anything can happen because it is still in line with government policy. We do not know how many goals there are, because it is not transparent. What the government believes about the reforms also hides the government from the public to take part in by not providing any accounts. Mr President, I would like to Is this a good way to manage the Swedish tax system?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-272	Mr President, I would like to It is an extremely high tone from Niklas Wykman in normal order. He says that the renovation of machines is manipulating the tax system. I guess it's ROT deduction for the repair of white goods that should be manipulating the tax system. Smaller repairs of clothing, textiles and shoes should also be the manipulation of the tax system. In what way, Niklas Wykman, is it manipulating the tax system to get deductions for renovating a refrigerator? The Alliance government introduced ROT deductions to repair a roof, repaint a wall or repair a floor. Why is it not manipulating the tax system when one is manipulating the tax system? Niklas Wykman may also think that it is manipulating the tax system to have reduced VAT on minor repairs. During Niklas Wykman's time, VAT was reduced in the restaurant area. Why is it one thing to manipulate the tax system and not the other? That's a strange way to reason. Niklas Wykman also wonders whether the Minister of Finance should not put his foot down and stop a small party from implementing what does not have a great effect on employment. How did Niklas Wykman think when he worked for his predecessor Anders Borg? Maybe it's something self-perceived. This is a proposal which, I believe, does not have major employment effects, but it has positive employment effects. In Niklas Wykman's day, the Alliance government introduced some reforms that had a direct negative impact on employment. Not least the custody allowance drove a small party in the alliance government hard, and it had directly negative employment effects. It was also written in that budget. Shouldn't Niklas Wykman and Anders Borg have put their foot down at that time?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-276	Mr President, I would like to I still could not hear in the answer from the Minister of Finance any kind of way forward to bring Europe's lowest unemployment in 2020. In our reply today, we could hear that the proposal to reduce VAT on minor repairs, such as bicycles and shoes, is primarily aimed at increasing incentives to fix or modify goods already manufactured rather than to buy new ones. Some high hopes for jobs don't breathe directly in that answer. This is in line with what the Minister of Finance said in an interview on 24 March in SVT when she said that using VAT to increase employment is a very expensive and inefficient way to use taxpayers' money. On the other hand, it is a little puzzling when, in the same interview, the Finance Minister is asked why she is opposed to a reduction in VAT in one sector but wants to benefit another. The Minister for Finance then says that the reduction in VAT is considerably cheaper. Mr President, I would like to My own reflection is that a government that claims to put the jobs first presents a proposal that will surely lead to bicycle workshops and shoemakers having increased profitability and, as someone wrote, getting out another week's vacation. It won't lead to any more jobs. I have no problem with Jack's shoemaker and bike repairer Conny at home in Vetlanda getting increased profitability, but they themselves say that it is not VAT that is the problem. Repairing and reuse are good for the environment, but why not give priority to an industry that both leads to more people getting jobs and at the same time benefits the environment by people spending money on services instead of gadgets? Then we can really say that the environmental impact of the production of new goods is being reduced. In addition, the service is performed in Sweden. It is an increased service sector that keeps our own economy going. Is the Minister of Finance serious about reducing VAT on repairs outside the home being more cost-effective for both the environment and jobs in relation to more people getting jobs in the RUT sector?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-283	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister for Finance that the allowance does not create jobs but, on the contrary, helps to curb employment. It is good that the custody allowance has been abolished. I would like to commend the Minister for that. However, it does not help to make a positive adjustment when making many changes that are worse. The Minister of Finance asked how we discussed various tax measures during the time of the alliance government. We had a clear objective: full employment. All people who want and can work should also have a job to go to. That is the same objective that still dominates our policy. When we made changes in the tax system, it was precisely to achieve this objective. This does not mean that every single change proved to be the best, but that was the goal of every change. Then you can reconsider, change and make new changes during the journey. It is obvious to a reformist party like the Moderates that you throw out what turns out to be worse, do more of what turns out to be working well and are prepared to test new things. The big difference between this government and the government that the Moderates want to lead is that the government that the Moderates want to lead wants to make tax changes that give more jobs. This government does the opposite. You increase taxes that cost jobs by, for example, halving the RUT deduction. Then we introduce tax incentives that we do not judge as giving jobs, such as various complicated deductions for the repair of textiles and other things that complicate the tax system, weaken legitimacy and drive down revenue but do not have strong positive employment effects. The job tax deduction provides about 130 000 more jobs. It makes the Minister of Finance worse. The RUT deduction provides around 20 000 jobs. It makes the Minister of Finance worse. Here it is possible to increase the tax. Instead, taxes are reduced on things that are not deemed to have positive employment effects. Mr President, I would like to It is precisely for this paradox – that the Minister is prepared to reduce taxes that do not provide jobs but, at the same time, to pay for it and other things, wants to raise taxes that cost jobs – as this government and Magdalena Andersson must be held accountable. They have to respond to how they actually care for the tax system and what tax reforms they are proposing. And, Mr President, is it reasonable for the Green Party to sit at the core of the Ministry of Finance and dictate such conditions? Should own home-made proposals without evidence or theoretical support for increasing labour supply dominate tax policy over measures that could actually increase labour supply? What reform, or what reforms at all, has Magdalena Andersson presented that is expected to increase labour supply in society? Almost none – or perhaps even none at all. It is very serious, because most people who look up an optional book on the labour market economy will find on one side or the other that what controls employment in the long term is labour supply. The Minister of Finance chooses to present tax measures on tax measures that reduce labour supply in society rather than increase it. Is there a reasonable balance between what tax policy should look like? Or, Mr President, is it the case that the Green Party has linked such a strong grip here that it does not matter? It is not employment but cohesion with the Green Party that is the anchor of politics.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-292	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation debate is similar to the previous one, and it illustrates the broad lines of employment policy. The Social Democratic-led government believes that education against the jobs that exist, skills development and moving forward on the value scale is crucial. This requires interaction between enterprise policy, labour market policy and education policy. What the Moderates are constantly advocating is subsidising certain sectors and investing in low-wage jobs. I would like to ask the interpellants a question. I, like you, sit on the Tax Committee and read all the motions with interest. The Moderates have exercised the right to deduct golf sports, the right to deduct to sail and the right to deduct to have a horse to ride around. How many new jobs does that create? And you who sing RUT's blessings, can you tell me what it is because Danderyd, Lidingö, Vaxholm, Nacka, Täby, Lomma, Vellinge, Kungsbacka and Sollentuna – high-income municipalities in one class – have so many who need RUT? Why are there not other districts and municipalities – Botkyrka or others – on that scale, Niklas Wykman? Do people in Danderyd and Lidingö need services to a greater extent than others? This is an important question, I think, for those of you who once called you the new Labour Party. But I knew it was just a joke. It is essential in politics that jobs are created by increasing demand. New jobs are added to which people are trained. Today we are already seeing the effects of that policy. Unemployment is falling – radically for young people but also for the long-term unemployed. The employment rate is increasing. It works to increase the tax and expand activities in the community that will benefit the children of Botkyrka as well as the children of Danderyd, who will benefit the children of Södertälje as well as the children of Lidingö, namely activities aimed at everyone. So you can use social resources instead of having deductions for the horse, sailboat or golf training.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-299	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has still not answered the question. He said that I'm manipulating the tax system when we introduce the possibility of deductions for the renovation of white goods and reduced VAT for the repair of bicycles, textiles and other things. Why is it manipulating the tax system? I assume that Niklas Wykman does not mean that he himself was manipulating the tax system when introducing ROT deductions for the renovation of, for example, floors or ceilings or when introducing reduced VAT for restaurants. Given the high tone Niklas Wykman had at the beginning of this interpellation debate, I think it would be nice if Niklas Wykman answered how he discusses that question. Of course, it is not the case that the Green Party dictates the terms. I think that reduced VAT on repairs is a good proposal. I think we should get away from the wear-and-slip community. I think it's better to renovate than to throw away. Therefore, I think there may be reason to spend tax money on halving VAT on those services. I note that both Helena Bouveng and Niklas Wykman say that the government halves RUT. They both know it's not correct. It is the ceiling for RUT that is halved, and it affects about 1% of those who use RUT services. However, we are extending the RUT deduction so that it will affect considerably more people. Both interpellants ask how the government conducts politics and what policies we have for more people to get into employment. We from the government have been clear about the government's job agenda, how we want to get more people into employment. What is clear to those who are out meeting entrepreneurs now that the economy is moving forward and employment is increasing a lot – it was not thousands of unemployed young people when we raised youth employers' contributions; on the contrary, unemployment among young people is falling faster than the rest of unemployment – is that what they are asking for are staff with the right skills. It is a major labour shortage experienced by many companies, and the government has important measures to widen these bottlenecks. It is about 50 000 matching and training sessions this year to enable companies to find the right skills. It's a huge investment. We also make extensive efforts to get up the housing structure so that people can move to where the jobs are. We are making extensive investments in rail maintenance, so that work commuting is easier, which widens the labour markets and also widens the bottlenecks we see. It is an extremely important policy for more people to get into employment, so that we can reduce unemployment. In addition, the Government conducts an active business policy, where closer collaboration between the business community, the public and academia is a cornerstone when we continue to build and develop the Swedish business community.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-308	Mr President, I would like to I always get as fascinated by Peter Persson, who constantly focuses on Danderyd and other things instead of those who actually get their first job. That is why the Moderates are the only Labour Party in Sweden. This is also why the Moderates in their spring exercise choose to double the RUT deduction. We make it profitable to move from grants to work. We invest in vocational training and skills mapping from the first day. We demand that people who go on grants make an effort to get a job. It should always pay off to work. In its spring proposal, the Government writes that the Swedish model is based on the fact that everyone is involved and contributes. Nevertheless, they raise the contributions, make it less profitable to go from grants to work, make it more expensive for young people and older people to get jobs, and make it less profitable to train and work for a few extra hours. The government's response to how to meet tomorrow's challenges is trainee jobs, which are not many, and now by 2020 at the latest 5,000 standby jobs. How can the Minister of Finance claim to represent the Swedish model while she and Peter Persson pursue a policy that makes sure that everyone's willingness to work is not actually taken advantage of?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-311	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that I appreciate Peter Persson's participation in the debate. I hope that he chooses to participate on more occasions in the future too, if nothing else, because there are many people who are very worried about the decaying government we have and the way in which Sweden is managed. It will be a clear reminder that it could have been worse. It is also clear that Peter Persson needs to read the documents more carefully. There are no such proposals from the Moderates to which Peter Persson refers. I think a lot of people are thinking about the government's priorities. We have a fiscal framework that the Finance Minister has broken down. We have a government deficit every year, despite the boom. We have an alienation that is now growing to 1 million people. There are about 250 000 people who have come to Sweden and need to enter the labour market. Then the Minister of Finance chooses to spend a lot of gunpowder and energy on a deduction for repair services. The Minister for Finance refers to Mikael Damberg's active business policy, which we know became Annika Strandhä ll's early retirements of 19-year-olds and increased health pay responsibility for companies – so much for active business policy! The Minister for Finance is asking me whether we in the Alliance are also prepared to manipulate the tax system and whether RUT deductions and job tax deductions are not just such measures. That's right, isn't it? That is why I am clear and say that when we make adjustments to the tax system, it is about creating jobs, as these reforms do. Then it is a matter of securing the long-term financing of welfare. The Minister of Finance is in and out of the tax system without more jobs and without strengthening funding. That's why I and a lot of people are worried about me.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-316	Mr President, I would like to There is something extremely challenging and classlike in the agitation that the Moderates practice. You who lose the job should also come down to an indecent level of remuneration, for then you are more committed to applying for a job. If you have a serious illness, you should be phased out of health insurance – boom! – after a year, while those who have the best order in our country will have double opportunities for deductions in relation to the level that was once and that we have now halved in order for them to be able to use services at home. You do not want to comment at all on the fact that I listed the ten municipalities in the country that are the richest. I respect everyone who lives there. They should be able to buy their services. But why should people with lower incomes and starting points be involved in paying for it? You did not want to touch on this at all. I believe that a worn-out nurse or a retired construction worker may be in more need of services than those who have such good incomes that they can pay for them themselves. This is the crucial and clear issue of conflict. The Moderates are a reliable party with their core among wholesalers.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-321	Mr President, I would like to It's very hard to keep up when Niklas Wykman talks. When I introduce a deduction for repairs, it is manipulating the tax system, but when Niklas Wykman does it is for more people to get to work. How – this is a rhetorical question – does more work when repairing a floor than when repairing a refrigerator? This doesn't make any sense! When I reduce VAT on the repair of bicycles and shoes, it is manipulating the tax system. When Niklas Wykman lowers VAT in restaurants, it is for more people to get jobs. But there are no more jobs created per tax crown in restaurants than when you are renovating bicycles. Probably the opposite. Niklas Wykman's argument is not linked, and it is worrying that this House should have to take part in that kind of argumentation. It's high tone, but without foundation. This government is pursuing a responsible policy. As far as public finances are concerned, we have reversed the development that was under eight years of alliance, with deficits rising month after month, year after year. It was ever-increasing deficits that we made sure to reverse when we took over. Now we have declining deficits and are returning to balance and surplus in public finances. This government takes responsibility. We also take responsibility for employment policy, and we see the impact of our actions. More people will have the opportunity for further education, more people will be able to get a new place of residence and more people will be able to commute to work. We're seeing the results. 80,000 more have a job to go to. Unemployment is falling. Youth unemployment is falling and long-term unemployment is among the lowest in the EU. That is the result of this government's policy.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-325	Mr President, I would like to Mr Zander has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that persons setting up and running companies in the form of public limited liability companies are subject to equivalent rules during the construction phase that apply to other forms of company. Mr Zander has also asked me what measures I intend to take to enable entrepreneurs, regardless of their form of business, to receive fictitious SGI for 36 months during the construction phase. The government is keen to improve the business environment. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the most important job creators in Sweden. Therefore, the government will continue to strengthen the conditions for starting a business and for existing companies and potential companies to grow, export and hire more. Safe and predictable health insurance is part of the ongoing work. I share Solveig Zanders's view that there is a great value in the fact that anyone who starts a business feels confident that the insurance system is there if he or she becomes ill, has children or is forced to close the company. Public security systems should not be designed to hamper entrepreneurship and lead to people abstaining from setting up a business. The issue of the stage of construction has been dealt with by the parliamentary social security inquiry. The final report proposes both the length of the stage of construction and the application of equivalent rules to entrepreneurs operating in the form of public limited liability companies during the construction phase and to self-employed workers. Entrepreneurs' conditions in security systems are an important issue and the rules for the construction phase are therefore something we are working on, and the matter is currently being prepared in the Government Office.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-329	Mr President, I would like to I very much appreciate the positive response from the Minister. I am pleased that the Minister is so positive about strengthening the conditions for setting up and running businesses and for hiring more people in the company. That is a very important part of creating jobs in our country. Of course, health insurance, along with other security systems, is very important in this context. Maybe it's one of the most important things besides initial capital. But I can't help but say we're not very much in agreement. After all, we have quite radically different opinions about the possibilities of starting and running businesses. The current government has made it difficult not least for women to run businesses, for example in the RUT sector where there have been deteriorations. There has also been a problem with running activities according to the Act on Freedom of Choice in Health Care. Most recently, the increased cost of sick pay was also a restraint. But the important thing was the start-up phase and security. We all know that four out of five jobs exist in small and medium-sized enterprises. You first have to start a business in order to be able to hire. There, security issues are absolutely the most important. You do not want to jeopardise the security of the benefits you have earned if you fall ill, parental leave or have to close your business. This is where there are shortcomings. Different forms of enterprise differ. Commercial companies, individual companies and limited companies have completely different conditions for being able to have security. For trading companies, this is all based on net revenue. However, in the case of limited liability companies, the salary charged applies. In addition, the owners of trading companies and individual companies can receive a so-called fictitious SGI, as the Minister said, during the start-up years. In the parliamentary social security inquiry, we proposed that all forms of business should be treated equally, that the possibilities should be the same in terms of the fictitious SGI, the comparative income, and that it should be extended from 24 to 36 months. The minister says to do it. Then I wonder: When? I don't want to wait any longer, absolutely not. And what will the proposals contain? That's what I want to know, and everyone who wants to start, run and expand their business. Now tell us, Minister, what the forthcoming proposal means! When will the proposal become a reality? Time passes, and we need people who want to start and run businesses now.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-336	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Solveig Zander, for the post and for a good and important interpellation. I share the view that there is a consensus on safety issues for small and medium-sized enterprises based on the joint work that has been done in the parliamentary social security inquiry. At the same time, I do not share Mr Zanders's view that we would in some way have deteriorated for small businesses, quite the contrary. In our amending budget, we are now proposing that it be cheaper for all 800 000 single-person companies in this country to hire a first person through a sharp reduction in employers' contributions during the first year. In addition, one of the first measures that I, as the Minister for Social Security, took was precisely to introduce high-risk protection for small companies affected by sick employees. During the first week of illness, the costs would be reduced. In fact, the proposal for a change in health, which we are going to discuss later here today, means that the smallest companies, rather than an increase in costs, will have to a large extent a reduction in employers' contributions. This is a result of the government's proposal for a health exchange. As it stands today for the sick leave of public employers, it would otherwise land at a higher cost. As I say in my answer, the question is currently being prepared within the Government Office. Solveig Zander is also well aware that the parliamentary social security inquiry was an enormous study that rendered in a final report covering over a thousand pages. The investigation's proposals have been processed in the Government Office during this year. And I should like to congratulate Mr Zander on the fact that what is absolutely first in line with the government's priorities linked to the parliamentary social security inquiry are precisely the proposals concerning entrepreneurs. We are currently working intensively on this in the Government Office, and we look forward to coming back within not too long with concrete proposals which go in the direction of the parliamentary social security inquiry. The fact that the regulations are so different depending on the form in which you conduct your business is something that we all think today is a bit out of time. At the same time, it is an issue which, of course, needs to be looked at carefully before moving forward with a concrete proposal. Different tax rules, social security contributions, etc. must be taken into account. These are not entirely straightforward questions. It is therefore natural that the preparation of these kinds of questions should take a certain amount of time. I'm sure you'll have to count on that. But I can also give a positive answer in that part. We want to make changes in this direction.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-343	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to the Minister. She deals with public employers and the cost of sick pay. But it's companies that we're talking about, and there's an incredible difference. After all, the high-cost protection introduced by the Minister had been proposed by the Alliance Government, and it would be easier to move to employment. For there to be jobs, there must be companies, and it's the companies that we're talking about now. I've been around for such a long time, you can say in parliament, for better or for worse, usually for good. However, I have heard ministers say that a parliamentary inquiry is to be set up to review the possibilities of running businesses. I have heard ministers say that there is a parliamentary inquiry going on, so that we should wait and look at the results. Now the Minister also said that the parliamentary inquiry is complete and that there were many good proposals in it, including in this area. If I am not mistaken, the referral bodies were very positive about these answers. I would almost like to say that a majority of the proposals were approved, so there is definitely nothing that needs further investigation. There's a complete bill, and I don't understand what you're investigating. The Minister did not answer when the proposal came. Surely it cannot be, Minister, that you intend to keep this proposal and include it in an election campaign as something that should be positive for you? It's not the company's service. We are facing huge challenges. In health care, 530 000 new jobs will be needed over the next ten years, if I am not mistaken. They cannot be all in the public sector. We must have people who want to start and run businesses. These are professions where women are happy to start and run businesses, and it must not be the case that today, as a woman, they have doubts about the security systems and therefore retain their employment and start a company next door, that is to say, they become a combinator. This does not lead to employment and to the growth of businesses, as the Minister himself says in his proposal is important. Therefore, I still want to know when the proposal will come and what it will contain. We must ensure that it is set up and run businesses. We will contribute to the integration of all our new arrivals into the labour market. Pensioners are getting more and more and need higher pensions, which is why we need more people working. There are the companies, the job creators, not the public sector, the ones who are going to solve the problem. The public sector exists, but we must have more businesses, and we must ensure that we want, dare and can start businesses. I ask the question again, Minister: when will the proposal, and what will it contain?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-350	Mr President, I would like to As I said a moment ago, Solveig Zander, in the last year, since the parliamentary social security inquiry presented its final report and handed it over to the government, a final report covering a large part of the Swedish social security system, which in many different parts is both complex and places high demands on us, worked on bringing in referrals and compiling them. We are now in the part of the process where we take a position on which parts we should proceed with. I am now clear in this House that the issue of small businesses and their preconditions are among the main areas of this investigation that the government wants to prioritise. This is currently being prepared in the Government Office. That is the answer that I can give here today, and that answer should be enough for Solveig Zander too. It is a priority for the government to improve and simplify small businesses. That is why we are implementing a number of different reforms. In this context, I would like to emphasise that while the proposal on high-risk protection for small enterprises implemented by the government in January 2016 was drafted during the period of bourgeois government, nothing prevents a government from taking on board a proposal which it feels is good and implementing, which is exactly what this government has done. We did this in dialogue with the social partners, both trade unions and employers, who thought the proposal was good and supported it. It has also been shown in retrospect that this is something that is used very frequently by companies. That is the answer I have to give today, Solveig Zander. As I said, I look forward to coming back with a concrete proposal that can be implemented.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-354	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I appreciate that the Minister is so sympathetic, but I wonder: is this proposal coming this year? It is certainly a good idea to take on board the proposals put forward by the Center Party in its government position, including the proposal on high-cost protection. But I'm impatient. I listened to what Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg said here a few days ago. He commented that a women's hairdresser could not afford to be on sick leave and mentioned that matters are now being prepared in the Government Office regarding company forms and more generous rules for security systems. I must be honest and say that I thought that I could have a clearer and clearer answer here today to the question of when the proposal will come and what it will contain. For me as a centre party, it is very important that we do not lose a single day when it comes to companies and their opportunities. I hear about difficulties and problems on a daily basis, not least with regard to security systems. As a center woman, I'm particularly keen on women running businesses, because that's what we need. We need more women who run businesses, create new opportunities and create new business sectors, where our new arrivals can be integrated and where there are opportunities to develop. I would have thought I would have had a clearer answer, Minister, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for the positive approach.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-357	Mr President, I would like to In my final statement, I would like to come back to something that Mr Zander has touched on, namely why changes in security systems are so important. I really do share the point of view. Today we have a situation in which we can see, also on the basis of studies carried out, that not least women choose to abstain from or postpone their entrepreneurship because they feel that there are shortcomings in the security systems, which means that they do not dare to take the step. It is, of course, in everyone's interest to create better conditions also for women to dare to take the step of becoming entrepreneurs. We still have in Sweden, despite the fact that female entrepreneurship has also increased, a great inequality regarding how many women and men are taking the step over to entrepreneurship. Not least, as I said, women continue to take greater responsibility for children, homes and families, which also means that this is postponed. It is important, not least for me as Minister and responsible for these issues, that we now move forward. It has also been a year for me when I felt that I wanted it to have gone even faster. However, it is a very large investigation, and it is a great job that needs to be done in the Government Office. However, as I said, improvements for companies are the top priority on the list of what we are going to take on from the parliamentary social security inquiry.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-360	Mr President, I would like to Emma Carlsson Löfdahl has asked me whether I have considered replacing Karen's Day with a withdrawal in accordance with what all parliamentary parties have supported in the parliamentary social security inquiry. Provisions regarding the withdrawal date are contained in both the Sickness Pensions Act and the Social Security Code. The proposal of the parliamentary social security inquiry means that the withdrawal date in the Sickness Pensions Act is replaced by a withdrawal allowance which, in principle, must correspond to the current withdrawal date. In the Committee's view, withdrawals should also be included in the Social Security Code. The Committee states that the detailed arrangements for the deduction may be made in the further preparation of the matter. In the Committee's view, a withdrawal of a carer's pension means a more equitable regulation of the individual's risk of disease. For example, workers with concentrated working hours receive a relatively similar deduction to those who work the same amount every day. The Committee's proposals have been referred to and the consultation bodies are generally in favour of replacing the withdrawal date with a withdrawal period. At the same time, several consultative bodies point out that the Committee's proposals need to be further examined, including with a view to drawing up a full legislative proposal and analysing the financial implications. I am keen to achieve fair regulation of the individual's risk of disease. Rules should, as far as possible, correspond to actual labour market conditions. Replacing the withdrawal date with a withdrawal is considered to be fairer regulation and should therefore be considered. At the same time, I can see that the proposals of the Parliamentary Social Security Committee need to be further examined, and careful impact assessments need to be carried out before such a proposal can be submitted to Parliament. This proposal is therefore being further prepared in the Government Office.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-364	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. It is important to have an excess in health insurance for the legitimacy of insurance and to counter over-exploitation. I am pleased that the Minister shares this view. But the excess must be fair, and it is not today. As the Minister himself states, it is considerably more expensive to be ill for those who have a complicated schedule than for those who work Monday to Friday eight to five. For example, we can take someone who works at night with long hours and works part-time. Such people often have the smallest financial margins, and they lose the most from the current system. The trade union Kommunal counted on it a few years ago. It was then concluded that a carer who works part-time and night loses more than twice as much of his share of monthly income when taking out a carer's day compared to the one who works even days. There are also those who have more jobs with several different employers. It can then be so bad that they get several days of withdrawal on the same day. It often affects people with small economic margins. It ultimately damages the legitimacy of insurance. Today's deductible is manipulable at the same time. By reporting sick at the end of the day when you feel that you may be going bad, you can almost completely get away from Karen's Day. It also damages legitimacy. As I understand it, the Minister does not really have any objection to switching the Karen's Day into a withdrawal. There seem to be very few people who have so many objections to this. The objections are usually in the small details. But it is in the details that the problem sits. A former Social Democratic government already tried twelve thirteen years ago to turn the Karen's Day into a withdrawal. But it gave up after a very critical consultation. This time it is a positive consultation and not a critical one. It is therefore an excellent opportunity to press ahead with this urgent reform and solve the small details that have so far been in the way.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-372	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Carlsson Löfdahl, for an urgent interpellation. In this case, I can only say that we have a consensus on this issue. This also applies to the description you make of the situation of those who are affected by the design we have of Karen's Day today. It is often women who are employed in public or private welfare and who may have the absolute lowest wages that are most affected. This also applies to those who have several employers. They may even be affected in a way that is completely unreasonable. I can also say, as Emma Carlsson Löfdahl says, that we generally have very positive consultation bodies. This applies in principle to all important and relevant bodies and from employers, trade unions and various county councils around the country. However, as also pointed out here, this is one of those issues where the parliamentary social security inquiry did not reach all the way, as is also pointed out by the consultation bodies. This means that we need to investigate the issue a little more. We also need to make impact assessments of such a change in order to see how the costs will be incurred. It is therefore difficult on my part to be able to be very clear about the possible date of entry into force of such a proposal. In any case, however, we see that in the autumn we are likely to be able to start work when it comes to carrying out the analyses that need to be carried out. We have an ambition to make such a change during our term of office. I also really share what Emma Carlsson Löfdahl concluded with. We now have a situation where so many referrals clearly support such a change. This is particularly true in view of the fact that it is also a question of the legitimacy of insurance. It is therefore urgent now to ensure that the change is implemented.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-379	Mr President, I would like to I note that, on the question of replacing Karen's Day with a withdrawal, Emma Carlsson Löfdahl and I share her view. The government intends to return shortly.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-380	Harr President! Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether I can promise that the currently announced co-financing of the cost of sick leave will not impose additional burdens on employers and what measures I intend to take to ensure that the announced co-financing of the cost of sick leave will not result in people with a history of illness, chronic diseases, disabilities or any other risk profile finding it more difficult to get a job. Katarina Brännström has also asked if I do not see any risks with the government's proposal to shift sickness costs to employers because it would make it more difficult for people with a history of illness to get a job. The proposal for a health exchange drawn up in the Government Office is intended to provide economic drivers for employers to take action to combat long-term illness. The proposal has now been referred to. At the same time, the social partners have been offered the opportunity to agree on solutions that will credibly reduce sick leave. If the parties present such, the Government will not proceed with the proposal for a health exchange. The proposal for a change of health means that employers pay 25% of employees' sickness benefit after 90 days of sick leave. The proposal should be cost neutral for the employer collective. This means that costs will not increase overall as employers' contributions are reduced accordingly, according to the proposal by 0.16 percentage points. Health exchange means that employers receive a more variable cost of sick leave. Active health work will pay off, while those who do not accept responsibility will pay more. However, the proposal does not require employers other than to take the measures already included in employers' rehabilitation responsibilities under the Work Environment Act or the Social Security Code. It is also proposed to protect smaller employers in the form of a free amount. The level of the release fee, SEK 33 500, has been determined so that smaller companies normally do not incur any costs for employees' sick leave. The aim is to ensure that health exchange does not constitute an obstacle to the establishment and expansion of small businesses. Weaknesses in the working environment are an important explanation for the differences in absenteeism between women and men. Today we see that municipalities and county councils have major problems with high sick leave, especially in women-dominated professions such as nurses, social security secretary and teachers. Resources for municipalities and county councils will be increased by SEK 10 billion annually. That is equivalent to over 10,000 employees. It will be able to contribute to a better working environment and reduced sick leave among staff in school, health care and care. As Lotta Finstorp points out, an employee may suffer from a disease where workplace measures are out of the question and where joint and several funding is justified. Even with the proposed health change, the majority, 92 per cent, of sickness benefit expenditure will be financed by the sickness insurance contribution, which is the same for all employers. Overall, I believe that the proposal does not lead to an increase in the burden on employers. A risk with a strengthened cost responsibility for employers, such as Lotta Finstorp and Katarina Brännström, is that employers could be more careful when recruiting. An important starting point for the work of the working group has therefore been to design the regulatory framework in such a way that people with ill health problems or people who for other reasons find it difficult to obtain and maintain a job do not suffer from the proposals. It is proposed that people at risk of longer sick leave should be able to apply for high-risk protection in connection with a new employment. In these cases, the employer pays neither sick pay nor any part of the employee's sickness benefit. Exemptions are also made for people who have a job with support either because of disabilities or because they have special difficulties in getting a job. Salary allowances and entry-level jobs are examples of forms of employment that are excluded from employers' cost liability. My assessment is that the proposed derogations are sufficient. However, it is important that possible effects on the labour market situation of vulnerable groups are closely monitored and that the proposal be adjusted if necessary. The whole proposal will be followed up.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-391	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Why is one of the world's healthiest people one of the world's most sickliest? Is it unhealthy to go to work? Is absenteeism only the employer's fault, or are there more factors that affect sickness rates? There are many questions, and I fully understand and respect that the Minister is trying to find solutions to one of today's major societal problems. But why present an already tested inefficient co-financing proposal? When you read various research reports on the causes of sick leave, no clear picture emerges. The vast majority of people believe that most cases of illness stem from other things than work, but of course a workplace with good participation, development and flexibility benefits a higher healthy presence. Mental illness is today the most common cause of longer sick leave. Today, more than one in three new sick leave is due to psychiatric diagnoses. Stress-related illness is today one of the most common causes of long-term illness. Women are more affected than men, and the forecast is very worrying about this increase. That one person is head of 70 employees is bad for everyone. Not being seen and having a conflicted private life naturally lead to increased vulnerability. Organising difficulties often lead to mental ill-health, especially among large employers. So why not start there? Since 2010, the number of reported occupational diseases caused by these factors has increased by just over 70 per cent. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulation on organizational and social work environment will hopefully make a difference because it focuses on the most increasing ill health. But it came into effect as late as 31 March this year, so it is obviously too early to see any measurable effect. People who suffer from stress-related fatigue often describe that if they had dared to change jobs, employers or occupations, they would not have become ill. There are obviously lock-in effects that prevent people from changing jobs and perhaps being able to stop a mental illness. How does the minister view it? Is there a need for greater flexibility in the labour market? The public sector has a major challenge in tackling the high rates of sick leave, particularly in terms of mental illness. Therefore, the Government's investment of 2 billion to get more hands in healthcare, as it is said, will be needed to cover the cost of the public sector if the proposal for co-financing is to become a reality. SKL indicates 1.2 billion for the public sector if it were to pay 25 percent from day 91. It has been tried before that the employer should co-finance the cost of sick pay. The Alliance government removed this in 2007 because it was not successful. It did not produce the desired effects, and it also had negative effects. The employer already pays sick pay for the first two weeks of an employee's sick leave, and during the co-financing reform 2005-2006 the employer also paid a special health insurance contribution. The main reason for its abolition was that it made it difficult for people with a medical history to find work. Is it not reasonable to first analyse whether it is the working environment that is the villain of the high sickness rates before the government passes the cost of sickness on to employers?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-401	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer, which breathes some insight into the fact that weak groups may suffer as a result of the government's proposal to increase the cost of sickness for employers. It is in companies that grow that you can hire and that new jobs are created. Now that the government wants to pass higher sickness costs on to employers, there is, of course, a risk that it will be both more expensive and more difficult for these companies to hire. It is mainly in the public sector that the number of sick leave is galloping. There will then be a great risk that many people with high sick leave statistics will be more likely to be without a job or to be referred to temporary employment where employers will not have to pay sick pay. The method of passing higher costs on to the employer has been tried in the past with no significant impact on reduced sick leave. This was also noted by the Social Security Inspection on Göran Persson's 2005 reform. Both Sweden's largest trade union Union and many other organisations point to the risk of people being sorted out. Nearly nine out of ten entrepreneurs say that they will be more cautious about hiring people who have some kind of disease history. Already today, many Swedish companies, perhaps mostly the smallest companies, are reluctant to hire another person because of complicated rules or the heavy personnel responsibilities they take on. This applies in particular to staff who would not function 100% from the outset. You hire staff because you need labor, not because you're nice or a social manager. Thus, even if exceptions are made in the Government's proposal, there is a risk of adding further weight to the burden on people with disabilities or some form of chronic illness. This worries me and many more. The cost of sickness benefits has almost doubled since 2010 and is currently around 31 billion. It is estimated that they will continue to grow to unspeakable 50 billion by 2020. We understand that the government wants to do something about this, but we do not really see that this is the best solution. This is the worst in municipalities and county councils. They have not only the highest sickness rates but also most and longest sick leave. In small and medium-sized enterprises, the rates of sick leave are significantly lower. This should perhaps have given the government reason to make exceptions or to add more gunpowder precisely to the public sector where politics also governs. Employers or companies cannot take over too much of the welfare costs without having consequences. We need more companies and we need more jobs, not less. It is a dangerous balance that the government is embarking on with this proposal. There is much we can discuss about this, and we can well share the concerns about the galloping costs. It goes without saying that something has to be done. However, in times when we need many more companies and many more jobs pressing for additional costs will make you even more careful to hire, and those people who may be at the farthest end will find it even harder to reach in the long line to the new jobs.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-409	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your wise speech. Let me start at this end: we currently have 194 000 people on sick leave in Sweden. Two out of three are women. We have a situation where we can see that once again – as both Katarina Brännström and Lotta Finstorp say – the public employers and the women-dominated workplaces in the public sector are the villains in the drama, if you can put it that way, and which generates sick employees. The Government launched a broad programme of measures in seven different areas last autumn, with 25 different starting points for the Social Insurance Agency as well as for employers and health care. We see that the proposals we made last autumn, which are now being implemented, are also having an effect. One of the proposals we made last autumn was about how we can develop financial incentives for employers. We have had three starting points in that work. The most important starting point has been that we should not impose any additional financial burden on the employer collective as a whole. This will give a fairer cost for sick leave than we have seen today to what sickness absence looks like in Sweden. We will protect the weak groups in the labour market. It has also been an extremely important starting point for me. The proposal for a change of health that the government is now putting forward will mean that we will have a more variable cost of sick leave, i.e. that the private employers – in this case the small enterprises with under ten employees – will actually benefit from this from a purely economic perspective. They will have lower costs. In Sweden we have 803,000 one-man entrepreneurs and about 246,000 entrepreneurs with between one and nine employees. All in all, we can see, in the analyses we have carried out on the part of the government, that perhaps a maximum of 1% of the 1,049 459 companies will actually suffer from increased costs due to this proposal, while employers within municipalities and county councils will, on the contrary, have a greater financial burden. This applies in particular to those employers in municipalities and county councils who have very high sickness rates. This therefore means a fairer distribution of the costs of sick leave in Sweden. Then it is quite right, as both Katarina Brännström and Lotta Finstorp say, that there is concern for the weak groups in the labour market. That is why we have also tried to protect, as a starting point for this proposal, both those groups with a previous history of illness and those with some form of employment support, whether it is due to ill health or a worse position on the labour market. As individuals, they will be completely exempt from this requirement, which means that they will not be affected. But this is also something that we have expressed that we will be following in particular.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-416	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for an important debate. What is problematic about a cofinancing proposal, which the government intends to put forward, is that this has been done in the past. There are a lot of reports based on the co-financing reform carried out in 2005-2006 that show that employers' commitment was minimal to reduce sick leave or shorten the length of sick leave. The most worrying is shown in a report by Eriksson and others that co-financing tends to have a negative impact on employment as employers are less likely to recruit. This is the last thing Sweden needs when we enter a time of historically extensive integration. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has recently presented a report on the company's view of co-financing. Nearly nine out of ten companies say that they are becoming more cautious about hiring people with a history of illness. The survey results show that companies are doing a lot to reduce sick leave. For example, 58 per cent of companies stated that they are committed to preventive work, and 52 per cent cooperate with occupational health care or the like. Policies will create long-term and predictable conditions for job growth. But it is with employers the jobs exist, just as Katarina Brännström said. Is there any concern on the part of the Minister that employers are reluctant to make new appointments? The proposal put forward by the government will lead to much increased administration, which will cost businesses. How does the minister view it? The interaction between employers, workers, health care, insurance funds and employment services must be made more effective. Therefore, in accordance with the proposal in the Social Insurance Report, we Moderates have proposed in our motion that the Health Care Act should include requirements for treatment and rehabilitation planning for return to work. What does the Minister think of that proposal? Hartman Hartman, former Analyser at Försäkringskassan, has – it's very interesting – punctured four important factors that affect the rise in sick leave, seen over time. It is important to have this in mind when trying to reduce sick leave. First of all, it is a question of the design of health insurance. Thus, the health and rehabilitation chain had an impact on the decline between 2001 and 2010. The second thing she says about the labour market and working life is that in the economic boom there are many sick leave while in recession there is a fear of losing your job, and therefore you are not on sick leave to the same extent. As a third point, she mentions the ability of the various actors to work actively with the sick leave process. There must therefore be clear incentives and a pool of forces for all involved. The fourth point concerns attitudes, behaviour and standards. Hartman Hartman believes that changes in public health do not explain the variation in sickness absence. For example, media reporting can lead to a feeling or thinking. There are also the major regional differences. For example, they can be explained in principle by attitudes and standards alone. There is no indication that public health is worse in Jämtland than in Halland, for example. We Moderates propose to introduce a new withdrawal date at day 15. It should be designed as a withdrawal, as was mentioned in a previous interpellation debate. What does the Minister think of such a proposal?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-426	Mr President, I would like to So 194 000 people are on sick leave, and it is estimated to be a quarter of a million. That is a huge number we are talking about, and no one really knows why. The highest sickness rates so far we had at the end of the 80's. Then it was on average 25 days. Then it sank, when it was worse times in the 90's. When the Alliance came to power, we also pushed down sickness rates. But suddenly they began to rise again. It is also a cyclical issue. We may be the healthiest people in the world, but we still have the highest number of sick leave. It's almost scary when you look at the diagnoses to see how much psychiatry there is there. I would like to thank the Minister for both the debate and the answer. That is an honest answer, and the Minister has a clear problem. The government is also making a good approach. But I am not entirely convinced that this is the right solution. No one knows what is exactly the right solution. It is great to try to find more variable costs and that small businesses should be exempt. But I'm afraid it still creates a fear. It seems complicated. I have worked in business and know that you think: Usch no, it was too hard – we continue as before. So you don't hire. It says in the government budget that as many as 1 million will live on subsidies by 2020. It is a huge social problem on which we should have a deeper debate than we have here today. What makes so many people sick? Is it too easy? Is there anything else in the system itself? I believe that sick leave will increase even more when the lower parentheses are removed. Above all, it will not be an incentive for the opposite. We don't think so. Many entrepreneurs and employers I meet say: It gets so complicated. It's so hard. There is concern that costs will increase even more. We are still quite vulnerable when it comes to competition in Sweden, where we have high costs. One is terrified of incurring more problems or increased costs. Then we will not take the social responsibility that we in politics might wish we did. The government is proposing to reduce the cost of sick leave by 5-10 percent. It would be good if that were the case. But it won't be enough anyway. What else do we have to do? It may be a much bigger debate about the puzzle of life, the system in Sweden and how we raise our children. I've met those who want to hire young people. They are almost horrified that the young people they bring in are not able to cope. The youths go home; they find it too hard. It feels like it's a trend, that we give up too easily. We should take this further, so that we do not stand there with a problem that is getting even worse and then do not have concrete solutions at all. Nobody wants to punish people. You want to help people. You want to remove the obstacles. I think we share the concern. I am not sure that we have the same solutions. I am also not sure that there is an optimal solution. But it is good that we have debates and continue to have debates in this important area.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-435	Mr President, I would like to It is an important debate and discussion we have now. The Minister is trying to take this seriously, but I do not, of course, agree that the measures proposed by the Minister are the right ones. Sickness rates have to go down. It's true. But it is important to focus on the area where the sickness rate is highest. The Minister says that municipalities and county councils, where sickness rates are highest, will pay more. Who's going to hit it? It's our tax money we'll have to make up for it with. It is not the case that the activities cease or that a person or company may be held accountable for failure to reduce costs and sickness rates. It is we and our tax money who will have to pay for it. So what the Minister is proposing is a blow to the air. Both Entrepreneurs and Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Small Enterprises – all organisations representing companies – say unison that this is not a good proposal. We heard from Lotta Finstorp that attitudes are recording. We know that. Just because the Minister says that a higher salary liability will be introduced means that companies are pulling their ears and do not want to hire. We are in a boom now, and then it should be the other way around. This should encourage companies to employ, as the Minister and I discussed a few hours ago. In this context, the opposite is true. That is the risk of the Minister's proposal. The Center Party has previously proposed that we contribute to lower occupational health care costs for companies and that they should receive reduced sickness pay costs – reduced sickness pay costs. The Social Democrats said before the election that one week of sick pay would be removed. It's forgotten now. Instead, costs are being spent. Instead of reducing costs for companies, rather than giving them carrots and opportunities, the Minister says that companies will have a reduction and that they will benefit from it. Yes, it is if the company has an employee who is ill. But it is not about getting compensation in this way, but it is very much about attitudes. If anything, the Minister should know. The Minister says and has said: I would like to withdraw this proposal. When does the Minister intend to take a swing on the matter and withdraw the proposal? The companies cannot do anything. It is the minister's own, I was saying, public sector personnel who are going to do something. What are they going to do to get the minister to withdraw this? These are questions to which I and the companies want answers. When is the Minister going to withdraw this horrible proposal?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-442	Mr President, I would like to I think that this issue deserves a serious debate. Solveig Zander! I know, frankly, not if the last post felt completely serious. It is the case, as Mr Zander knows, that we discussed this two and a half hours ago, that the government has implemented a cost reduction for companies. We did so already in January 2016, when we implemented the proposal on high-risk protection for small businesses. It was a costly proposal for the state, but it protects small companies against high sickness costs. It was also a proposal that companies themselves preferred compared to removing the second week of sick pay. This was done by the government. We have fulfilled our electoral promise in that part. What we are doing now is not imposing any additional costs on companies. On the contrary, this will mean a total cost relief of approximately 700 million for Sweden's companies. There we come to what is serious in a debate and how we politicians influence how things are perceived, not least by companies. In this case, I also think it is quite serious how the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise presents the proposal. In fact, the 1,049 459 companies in the Swedish labour market with under ten employees will be the winners of this proposal. Some 1 400 companies are at risk, theoretically, of being affected by the proposal. This compares with the fact that we now have 194 000 people on sick leave. This is not the only proposal put forward by the government. Last autumn we presented a broad package of 25 different measures. These are more stringent tests at the early stages of the rehabilitation chain, the development of support for businesses, the improvement of business-to-health contact and early deployment. However, we cannot afford 250 000 sick-listed Swedes on the bench in 2020, but we need them on the labour market, available to companies. The proposal we are now putting forward is not a threat to Swedish companies. It is therefore unfortunate that it is presented in this way by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and some politicians. It creates concern among companies, and it creates a perception that this is a problem. Here we create financial incentives so that the employers in Sweden, preferably in the public sector, who for decades have been suffering from a problem will actually have some additional pressure not to allow the sick leave they have in their activities to turn into long sick leave that knocks people out of the labour market. Two out of three are women, and the vast majority of these people have not had any previous sick leave. We must prevent them from entering a long period of sick leave by any means available. In addition, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has presented, as late as 5 April, a summary of knowledge made by Stockholm University and professors there. It clearly shows the link between work environment and ill health, but also that the risk of ill health in health care, school and long-term care is much greater due to lack of resources and control at work. We have a responsibility as politicians to do everything we can to prevent this.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-450	Mr President, I would like to The Minister believes that employers who are good at preventing and who handle sick leave will be compensated for the 25% that is proposed to be paid out from day 91. But if cofinancing is to be seen as a whip for employers, what happens to this incentive if employers get a compensation model, which is contained in the Minister's proposal? That's a question I've been thinking about. The Minister says in his reply that the proposal for co-financing proposes that people at risk of longer sick leave should be able to apply for high-risk protection in connection with a new employment. Should the job seeker have the certificate in his hand during the interview? The person may have been symptom-free for a long time. Isn't that a violation of privacy? There are a number of such issues that I think it is important to resolve if this should become a reality. There is a grey zone problem which is also very unpredictable for the individual. What I can hear from all of us who are taking part in the debate is that we have a common understanding that it is the public sector that actually has the major problem with sick leave. Instead, I think, we should focus efforts and measures – whip and carrot – on that particular sector. I have had the parliamentary investigation service analyse how much the costs of sick leave would be if sick leave for municipalities and county councils were to apply to the entire labour market and vice versa. The report has been made with Statistics Sweden's statistics for the public sector. It's really interesting. What is meant to be included in the private sector I can draw up, but I am running out of speaking time now. The report shows that if the sick leave of municipalities and county councils were to apply to the entire labour market, this would mean a total increase in the cost of health insurance by SEK 8 578 000 000.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-454	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is the public sector, which is the huge sector, which is perhaps the biggest villain in this debate. It's about teachers, nurses, nurses and preschool teachers. It is in fact already the shortage profession. There's a lot of pressure. They get on their knees, and they get sick. So we risk paying double or more on the part of society. This is where the gunpowder has to be placed. I think it is a good thing that we have thought about small businesses, but I still think that we are building up a complex work that will make many people afraid to hire. In fact, this profit debate should not lie down as a wet blanket over the public sector. We need to have more employers, more autonomy and much more influence, so that we have a better working environment in the public sector. I think that the government should give serious thought to what can be done there. I think that's where we have to put the gunpowder. Otherwise, we risk stigmatising this group of people, who already already have obstacles to entering the labour market. If they are now to obtain certificates, high-cost protection, high-risk protection or whatever it is called, it can still make them, so to speak, the last in line. If I'm an employer, I want someone who works effectively. I may not have the time, the opportunity or the advice to give the power that those people would need. I don't know how we're gonna figure this out. But look at the public sector! Make sure that the influence for the staff and well-being is increased! I think there's a lot where it's sitting. I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think we've managed it this far. But we'll see where the gunpowder ends up and what the proposal will be once it's done. Thank you for the debate.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-460	Mr President, I would like to The Minister burned himself a little after my last speech. It shows that this is an important issue for both of us. I'd say so. If I do not remember wrong, you from the government have proposed an increase of 2 billion to the municipalities in order to employ people in health care, where there are actually the most sick and where you need additional staff. I wonder, then, why did you not choose to further support, help and make things easier for the public sector, rather than making this proposal which concerns businesses where sick leave is much lower? If the government had targeted itself where the problem is, I repeat, this animated debate would not have arisen and the Minister would not have had to burn itself up because I say that this is happening and will hit the private business sector – where jobs are created! The Minister and I agree that four out of five jobs are created in small and medium-sized enterprises. They are the ones who are needlessly disturbed then, if I am to interpret the Minister kindly. Why did you not continue with the carrots to support and help our municipalities and county councils? Instead, with our tax money, we have to pay them more, and that is the fault! Doesn't the minister understand that?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-464	Mr President, I would like to Time is fast when we are discussing an important issue. I would really like to have the opportunity to answer all of you with the time normally available to everyone, to be honest, because there is much to be said on this issue. What I can say from this debate is, at least, benevolently, that there are many of us in here today who are very committed to bringing down sickness rates and ensuring that we create good conditions for both companies and the people who work in the public sector, so that people do not get sick and that companies do not have to worry about whether they can hire or not. The proposal that the government has now put forward, which is one of 25 proposals, is aimed at municipalities and county councils. One should also be careful to say that both the latest ESO report and the Long-term investigation and several consultation bodies, including TCO, have recommended that the government also create financial incentives for long-term sick leave. There, employers in Sweden today, comparatively internationally, have relatively small incentives. Above all, I think it is important to try to create an instrument that really has an effect where it is most needed. That's one way to put it. We have also said to the social partners that the government is prepared to put this forward, because that is what we can do from a political perspective to influence, and we listen to our expert authorities and bodies. However, we have also opened up the social partners to come up with their own solutions on how to improve the working environment and to create more health-promoting workplaces that, in the same way as our proposal, could reduce sick leave. In such cases, we will not present this proposal. We are now having such a discussion with the social partners. We have also appointed a process leader from the Government Office. Thank you for the debate.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-470	Mr President, I would like to Mr Aron has asked me what measures I intend to take to: 中 Health care contact with the employer should become a natural part of the sick leave process Introduce health care assessment support to reduce the need for sick leave and increase return to work Introduce transparent comparisons of sick leave and the results of efforts to promote return to work. First of all, I would like to thank you for the question and stress how important it is to develop the role of different actors in the process of sick leave and, in particular, the health care system. In autumn 2015, the Government presented an action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave. In it, the Government has identified seven areas where efforts need to be made during the term of office and where the Social Insurance Agency, employers and health care are the most important actors. The Government is therefore carrying out a series of efforts to promote the conditions for healthcare to offer good care and treatment of diseases that largely lead to sick leave. An important measure is the agreement that the Government and SKL signed in December 2015 and which provides the county councils with SEK 1.5 billion in incentives for quality improvement in healthcare. Among other things, SEK 360 million is allocated to develop a function for coordination within health care. The purpose of a coordination function is to create opportunities for early collaboration between individuals in the sick leave process by finding ways to collaborate, if necessary, both internally within healthcare and externally with other actors such as employers, Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and municipalities. The agreement also provides development funds to SKL and Försäkringskassan to test the possibilities of developing an assessment support that can help identify individuals who are at risk of long-term sick leave and who need treatment and rehabilitation interventions. The Government has also entered into an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on measures to improve the care of people with chronic diseases. The agreement includes efforts to promote the dissemination and application of national guidelines and clinical treatment recommendations for a large number of chronic diseases. The task of the National Board of Health and Welfare is to develop national knowledge support for health care in order to contribute to more equal and equal care. The National Board of Health and Welfare is currently updating national guidelines for anxiety and depression. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been given the task of updating and monitoring the insurance support. An important starting point for the efforts now being carried out is to create coordinated solutions that will make it easier for recipients of healthcare to gather knowledge about good care and return to work. The Government has recently submitted two assignments to increase knowledge about sick leave practices and the sick leave process. Försäkringskassan has been tasked with developing proposals for outcome measures in the healthcare sector for the return of sick leave to work in order to increase knowledge of the extent to which the care efforts lead to the termination of sick leave. The Swedish Research Council for Health, Working Life and Welfare, Forte, has been tasked with preparing and implementing a call for research funding in order to increase knowledge of the factors and measures within healthcare that contribute to the return of sick people to work. The Government also intends to submit an assignment to the relevant authorities during the spring to analyse differences in sick leave practices between, for example, different regions, municipalities and units. The intention is to develop transparent comparisons and follow-up of sick leave patterns.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-484	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked me why – within the framework of Collaboration for Best School – it is voluntary and not a compulsion to receive support and resources when the School Inspectorate has found that the school or principal has major shortcomings. I would like to begin by stating that Maria Stockhaus and I share the view that it is important for resources to be directed at schools that face major challenges. In Best School Collaboration, efforts are directed at schools with low learning outcomes or a high proportion of students who do not complete their studies. These schools should also have or are deemed to have difficult conditions to improve their performance on their own. It is the Swedish National Agency for Education that, based on the information provided by the Swedish School Inspectorate, makes a selection of the schools and principals that are best judged to meet these criteria. A key part of Best School Collaboration is capacity building. In dialogue with the principal, the Swedish National Agency for Education offers support in the form of development efforts that will strengthen the principal's own ability to plan, follow up and develop the education. The aim is to improve pupils' learning outcomes and increase equivalence within and between schools. I note that this model has so far been successful. In 2015, the Swedish National Board of Education has initiated cooperation with 24 municipalities and individual principals. The Swedish National Agency for Education expects that Collaboration for the best school will gradually be expanded with about ten new municipalities or heads of independent schools every six months. Until 2019, it is expected that 180 schools will have participated in the initiative. Despite the fact that there is no obligation to cooperate with the Swedish National Agency for Cooperation for Best School, demand is high, and municipalities and individual principals are interested in receiving support to improve their ability to plan, follow up and develop the education. Should there be difficulties in reaching agreements in the future, even though there is a considerable need for targeted efforts, we will in that situation have to assess whether the conditions of the mission should be adjusted. Capacity building within Collaboration for best schools has begun, but there is a need for major changes to strengthen the governance chain. This is why the government has appointed a school commission to make proposals aimed at raising knowledge outcomes, improving the quality of teaching and increasing equivalence in schools. The School Commission has a broad mandate to make suggestions on how to build a strong school system.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-491	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister very much for his answer. The waves of discussion go to and from high when it comes to the headmanship of the school. Should it be a state or a municipality? The truth is that it has always been a shared responsibility. The state is responsible for steering documents, teacher training and for monitoring equivalence across the country. The municipalities are responsible for resources and execution. The Alliance government decided to set up the School Inspectorate so that the state could better take responsibility for equivalence and quality across the country. The state has also tried to support the development of schools through various state grants. As I wrote in my question, we all have reason to be self-critical about how this instrument has been used, regardless of the colour of the party. We Moderates responded to the criticism by using what we call knowledge contracts. We want to combine them with a clearer rating in connection with the inspections and greater demands on municipalities and schools that do not meet the standard of access to the support that can be given under the knowledge contracts. The government's corresponding initiative does not imply any coercion to participate. I am surprised that there is no obligation to attend. Where the School Inspectorate has identified principals or schools with major shortcomings that are not considered capable of improving quality on their own, they still have the opportunity to opt out of the support offered. It is the principals and schools that are not deemed to have the capacity. It is serious to be able to improve quality on your own. In my world, this is the same as leaving the students in the municipalities, with these principals, completely in the lurch. How, then, does the state assume responsibility for equivalence? I find it hard to understand how these principals think that says no. The support offered is what I can assess after two visits qualified training and help to analyse the results in order to be able to take the right action. Saying no is a betrayal of the students. I was pleased to see that Nynäshamn municipality was on the list of those who have signed agreements. The municipality must have been added recently because it was not included before. Nynäshamn received strong criticism from the Swedish School Inspectorate and a penalty order for not having been able to do anything about the areas of improvement that had been pointed out earlier for five years. Thankfully Nynäshamn has now accepted an agreement with Collaboration for the best school, but the question is whether the Minister for Education thinks it reasonable that a municipality like Nynäshamn should have had the opportunity to refuse.
i-4GWtGbvF7U1DRWZm7q7yhf	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the interpellation and the post! In my opinion, it is quite correctly analysed that the waves of discussion about the school's headship have been high for a long time. Sometimes it is perceived as a kind of choice, that we can choose to have a shared responsibility or not. This is not the case, as Maria Stockhaus says. Our children's education will always be a shared responsibility. The problem is when the shared responsibility becomes an unclear responsibility. That's what it looks like today. The OECD review of Swedish schools is clear. The reviews we do ourselves, and not least the Swedish School Inspectorate's reports after inspection at all Sweden's schools, clearly show that the culture of responsibility that characterises the principals and schools that have managed to reverse falling results and make good results is not found in the school system as a whole. The responsibility is unclear. It is unclear who is responsible for what. We have to change that. Collaboration for the best school is not the answer to the whole question. But Collaboration for best school is the answer to the question what can be done within the current regulatory framework, today's lack of management chain, to ensure that when a school does not provide students with the skills they need and when the principal does not have the capacity to control development, we work together to reverse the development of the school. How does the state and the municipality interact? For far too long, the state and the municipality have been in a position where they have looked at each other and played the part between each other. The students, as well as teachers and principals, are in a lot of trouble. That is why we prepared the proposal "Cooperation for the best school", together with the Swedish School Leaders' Association in particular. It was launched without the legal changes that, for example, the obligation to draw up a contract would entail. We could simply get started much faster. The Swedish National Agency for Education does not today make the assessment that additional legal support would be needed for agreements, whether in terms of ensuring that the agreements are in place or in terms of the content that the Swedish National Board of Education's experts assess is needed. I am, of course, no stranger to the fact that if we end up in a situation where the Swedish National Agency for Education states that there is a need for additional legal support to reach all the principals who need the support ensure that the team support is put in place. There is now a more thorough review of how the management chain for Swedish schools can be improved so that state support for schools can be achieved in a completely different way from what is currently the case, and as Maria Stockhaus also reported. This issue is dealt with within the framework of the School Commission.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-504	Mr President, I would like to Next week, the School Commission will present its interim report. It will be good to get the proposals on the table. In many debates, the Minister for Education has referred precisely to the work of the Commission. I have followed the work of the Commission in the parliamentary reference group. What is unfortunate about this work is that there is little that can have an effect in the near future in Sweden's schools. In the meantime, students after students leave Swedish school without everyone getting the knowledge they need to be able to attend national programmes in upper secondary school, for example. It is too slow and too slow to act by the government of Fridolin, and it is our students who unfortunately suffer. There are many principals in Sweden who do a fantastic job and where most students manage the school well. Then there are many principals who fail. School inspection reports can sometimes be a sad reading. I usually spend time reading them for visits as I should. There are far too many principals who fail their mission and who receive criticism from the School Inspectorate, even after the school has had a number of years to correct the problems. In Nynäshamn's case, the question is whether there is capacity at all. I'm glad the school gets outside support. I have also visited Nynäshamn. I share the Swedish School Inspectorate's assessment that Nynäshamn will not be able to do this on its own. Directed support for the principals can certainly be the right way to go, but letting it be voluntary puts students' education at risk. It is positive that the Minister for Education has received signals that Collaboration for the best school has been successful, but how profound is that evaluation? Does the Minister of Education intend to carry out a proper evaluation? If so, will the question of voluntary participation be included in that evaluation?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-509	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. There is something paradoxical about Maria Stockhaus' criticism of us. Firstly, we are not acting quickly enough to help schools. Secondly, we should have waited to launch Collaboration for the best school until an investigation with legislative proposals was completed, also negotiated between parties and also presented and processed in Parliament. Then Collaboration for the best school would probably still not have been started. Then Nynäshamn municipality, which Maria Stockhaus uses as an example and which has made an agreement, still had not had that agreement on the table. Instead, we had discussed here in Parliament what legislation is best. Collaboration for the best school is what can be done within the framework of the current regulatory framework. I can be surprised that this type of tailor-made support was not given to schools earlier. The establishment of the School Inspectorate was a good thing. But there was a lack of a system at all to help the principals whom the School Inspectorate noted would not be able to reverse the development of their schools. That is why we set it up, and we set it up in the quickest way possible to make a change in the structure of government, that is, without establishing a new authority and without establishing a new regulatory framework. We simply did what was possible within the framework of the current regulatory framework. The question asked is: Will there be a deeper evaluation? Of course it will. The question asked is: Will it also address the question of whether legal support is still needed? Yes, of course. We are fully prepared to follow it, and we are engaged in an ongoing dialogue with the Swedish National Agency for Education. So far, we have not received any signals that the Swedish National Agency for Education's work would need additional legal support to neither get agreements nor get the content of agreements that the agency's experts deem necessary. Should that signal change, I am fully prepared to present proposals for legislation.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-517	Mr President, I would like to I assume that the Minister for Education believes that all students, regardless of the principal they choose, have the right to a good education. Collaboration for the best school is offered to both independent and municipal principals, something that I think is good. But during the two visits that I have made to partly a municipal, and partly an independent principal showed a fairly clear difference. At the beginning, it has worked so that principals have met in groups and discussed together. Collaboration for the best school has come as a continuation. The municipal authorities presented Collaboration to the best school, and those who were hesitant were put under a lot of pressure to jump on this. As a result, most municipal authorities that have been offered this have jumped on. When I spoke to the independent principal, who had been involved in a similar process with the National Board of Education, it emerged that the vast majority of the independent principals had declined the offer of Collaboration for Best School and had not been subjected to any pressure to sign the agreement. My question is whether the Minister for Education thinks it reasonable that independent and municipal authorities should be treated differently. Don't students who have chosen an independent principal have the same right to a good education?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-522	Mr President, I would like to Yes, they do, and if the state deems that support is needed, it is indecent that it rejects that support. If the State considers that it needs support, regardless of whether it is municipal or independent, it should receive that support. One should be involved in developing the agreement that is needed, and it should be implemented. I assume that the reflection that Maria Stockhaus is now doing is something that we can take into account in the further evaluation and in how we follow this but which, if this is true, can also possibly influence the moderate debate on ideas about what rules we should have to accept principals and give them the greatest confidence in welfare, namely to give our children a good school.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-524	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked me why I and the government do not commission the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop digital tools to support newly arrived students in their mother tongue. I agree with Maria Stockhaus that it is important for newly arrived students – and for that matter all students – to have access to learning resources adapted to the pupils' conditions and needs, including digital tools. The Swedish National Board of Education has been tasked with helping to reduce differences in the results of knowledge between newly arrived pupils, pupils with a mother tongue other than Swedish and other student groups. The general efforts are aimed at all levels of the governance chain and at all levels of authorities and schools. Mother tongue teaching and language and knowledge development are examples of areas identified by the Agency as being particularly keen to draw attention to the work involved in designing the actions. The Swedish National Agency for Education conducts dialogue within the framework of the mission with principals and other school actors. Based on a comprehensive current situation analysis, it clarifies and identifies precisely which actions need to be taken at the main and school levels. In this context, it may be worth noting that the state in Sweden is not responsible for the development of teaching materials. However, nothing prevents the National Agency for Education from producing any material where it is identified as necessary within the framework of the mission. The Swedish National Agency for Education also carries out targeted actions aimed at those principals who are deemed to be in the greatest need for support in the work on the reception of newly arrived students. The targeted actions are about providing support in terms of systematic quality work, how the principal can adapt his organisation and efforts aimed at teachers and other educational staff to develop the quality of teaching. In the implementation, the Swedish National Agency for Education will adapt the efforts to the needs and prerequisites of teachers, study supervisors, principals and principals. Within the framework of the migration policy agreement with the bourgeois parties, the government has also proposed, in a bill to the Riksdag, increased opportunities for mother tongue education and study guidance in the mother tongue through increased opportunities for remote teaching and construction. The commission given by the Government to the Swedish Agency for National School Development Programmes explicitly includes skills development efforts regarding digital learning resources and tools to, among other things, strengthen digital competence in the teaching situation in schools. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to propose national IT strategies for the school system. The Agency presented its proposals in April, and these are now being prepared within the Government Office. These are some of the initiatives taken by the government to strengthen digital skills and promote the effective use of IT in schools. It in the form of e.g. digital tools and learning resources has a strategic potential for greater achievement and equivalence in the school system. I intend to come back to the further work of the government in order to fully exploit this potential.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-531	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister of Education, for your answer. The large number of new arrivals that schools are now receiving pose major challenges for both schools and principals. The National Board of Education recently attended the Education Committee and presented the efforts being made to support schools and principals in meeting the challenges – what the Minister of Education described. These efforts are much needed. However, in the description of the actions, there was nothing about digital support. I finally asked the question, and the representatives of the National Agency for Education said that it is not part of their mission when it comes to new arrivals. It is not the responsibility of the state to produce teaching materials, but at present we are almost in a crisis situation. We have many new arrivals who all need to learn Swedish but also get challenges when it comes to moving forward in their knowledge development. The ability of the principals to provide for this is somewhat different. There are a few initiatives on the market with digital support in different languages but also support for learning Swedish. However, the Swedish market is small, and some languages are so small that it can never be profitable to develop digital support in those languages. In the situation we are now in, is it reasonable that the Swedish National Agency for Education has no mandate to even look at opportunities for digital support within the framework of the work with new arrivals?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-538	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus. My answer is that the National Agency for Education has such a mission. In order to understand the background to the discussion, one should possibly make a brief reflection on the shortcomings that have existed in the government's control of the Swedish National Agency for Education. The Swedish National Agency for Education is an authority that has been governed with very detailed and many assignments that have hindered the long-term development of the agency in a good way. We have assessed this. Statskontoret has made a very good report; the Swedish Financial Control Agency as well. The government is taking in support to improve its governance of the Swedish National Agency for Education. I do not want to burden the Swedish National Board of Education's management, so it is an evaluation of how the government has run the agency. Part of this is to avoid giving many quick, very detailed assignments to the National Agency for Education. That is why, in a few strategic areas, we have ensured that the National Agency for Education is given the resources needed, the means that can be used and the broad mandates that enable a dialogue to be held with the authorities on what is needed. The task of providing support in teaching to new arrivals is an example of this. It is a broad mission, financed by the state budget, which allows the Swedish National Agency for Education to quickly make the efforts that are deemed necessary in dialogue with the principals. I believe that this is a better way of working, especially in the specific case raised by Maria Stockhaus. I am not sure that the government is the best authority in this context to assess which IT devices are already on the market, which ones should be developed, which ones will be available soon, which ones are too expensive for schools to use and which ones are already being used voluntarily. This is something that the Swedish National Agency for Education has the right expertise to evaluate. The Swedish National Agency for Education therefore conducts an ongoing dialogue with the principals within the framework of the mission received from the Government. If you consider that you should develop the type of learning tool that is indicated in the interpellation, the Swedish National Agency for Education has every opportunity to do so within the framework of its mission.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-545	Mr President, I would like to Then it is a strange action on the part of the National Agency for Education that you do not highlight this possibility. One looks almost surprised when the issue of digital support is raised. It doesn't have to be about the Swedish National Agency for Education itself to produce support. It can also be about reviewing where there is need and what it looks like with opportunities to use any content that is available. Now awaits a long and long-awaited summer vacation. Many municipalities offer summer school in various forms. Last summer I visited a summer school in Uppsala for high school students who attended language introductions. They had the opportunity to attend a summer course for three weeks to learn Swedish better. The other seven weeks of the summer vacation probably did not get much opportunity to speak Swedish. Some form of digital support for them to continue their development in Swedish had not even been thought of. This is a new way of thinking. It's still a new tool for the school, unfortunately. It is difficult to see what content is, and there schools and principals would need more support. Given how the Swedish National Agency for Education has acted so far, I think it would be appropriate to highlight the issue of digital support for new arrivals within the framework of the mission they have. It should be clear that it should be included. Although the principals are responsible for adapting teaching and providing support for new arrivals, very few principals in Sweden are so large that they have the opportunity to produce their own digital content in different languages. The overall development of digital learning materials is slow, and in order to exchange the IT investments made by Swedish hood udmen, it is probably important that they also come with good digital content. In Denmark, the government has subsidised digital learning materials to start a market. Denmark is also a relatively small market. The discussion on digital learning materials and content in general, I hope, will come up in the near future in the context of the discussion on the digital strategy for schools. On the other hand, digital support for new arrivals, or at least the identification of what opportunities there are for the principals to use them – what content is on the market, what kind of apps and other support could be used – as an issue where the principals would need help. Is the Minister of Education prepared to extend the mission to the Swedish National Agency for Education when it comes to new arrivals to include digital support?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-551	Mr President, I would like to I agree essentially with the analysis made by Maria Stockhaus. Even Maria Stockhaus tied this up in the same way that I did in my original interpellation response. This is one of the reasons why we have requested finally to develop national IT strategies. If we at the national level have a more structured way of working with IT in school, it becomes more natural to do so when, for example, we get a task like the one we received during the autumn, to receive a lot of newly arrived students in a short time. Then you can quickly use digital learning tools. Of course, I will take this issue with me in my dialogue with the Swedish National Agency for Education about the mission. The government is clear that it is part of the mission today to be able to develop digital learning tools, evaluate the market or make the necessary reviews if it is assessed in its dialogue with the authorities that this need exists. If Mr Skacket thinks that we need some kind of expansion of the mission, we must, of course, take it on board. But the mission we have given is open to the Swedish National Agency for Education to use for the efforts that you see have the greatest impact.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-553	Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention another point raised by the Minister for Education in his interpella tion response, namely the question of long-distance teaching and the proposal on the possibility of subcontracting remote teaching in the field of mother tongue teaching and study guidance. It is a welcome change in legislation, a change that came about thanks to the Alliance's action in the Education Committee. The proposal that has now come is limited to the mother tongue and study guidance, which is of course good for many new arrivals, but several referral bodies have criticised its being too restrictive. It wants to see more opportunities to exploit the technology and cooperate between principals. An important topic for new arrivals is Swedish as a second language. It is of course always best if the students can be taught by a teacher in their classroom, but teachers in Swedish as a second language are one of the categories of teachers in which there is the greatest shortage. Long-distance learning could be a solution here, but it does not allow the law. It is not even allowed after the legislative amendment that is now under way. I wonder why the government is not prepared to open up for experiments at the other end with remote learning on a subcontracted basis. This is something that many consultation bodies raise. For many principals, it is the only solution when it comes to offering Swedish as a second language, for example, to newly arrived students with a qualified teacher. Then remote learning is the only opportunity you have.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-557	Mr President, I would like to Let me say three things. Firstly, it is possible to offer remote teaching on more subjects on a trial basis. Then it's just a try. We have a number of principals involved in such attempts to evaluate it. Secondly, the possibility of contracting is not the only possibility to interact between principals. It's the easiest option, but it's not the only one. When it comes to Swedish as a second language, however, one should know that the problem is not as much as when it comes to study guidance and mother tongue, that the teacher competence is located elsewhere than in the municipality itself, but the problem is that we generally have far too few teachers who have competence in Swedish as a second language. There is a risk of painting it as if you could find these qualified teachers only you had the possibility of remote teaching, because the picture is probably that the teachers who are qualified in Swedish as a second language generally have full positions where they work. Thirdly, I would have thought that the bourgeois criticism that we did not hurry quickly enough with the proposal for remote teaching on the basis of the preparation documents that existed would have been a little calmer after the advice of the Law Council. It is of course the Law Council's task to assess how we comply with the government's preparation requirements, and the Law Council said very clearly that we went forward very quickly. Here we went faster than the Law Council estimates that the preparation level requires, and we did so because we wanted to get these rules in place as quickly as possible. We did this more quickly than the previous government put forward any of its proposals, and that was necessary. Therefore, it was also necessary to go against the criticism we received from the Law Council. We did this as quickly as possible, so that this opportunity could be opened up to native speakers and study guidance.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-561	Mr President, I would like to Erik Bengtzboe has asked me how long high school students will have to wait for more mathematics education. I agree with Erik Bengtzboes's problem description of the results in mathematics that have fallen since the 1990s. It's a trend that needs to be broken. International research supports the connection between increased teaching time and knowledge results.
i-4EHDhAf3jx3dSboLohokxm	The Government and the Moderate Coalition Party, the Center Party, the People's Party Liberals and the Christian Democrats agreed in February 2015 that discussions will be held on the primary school's hour plan in the light of the Swedish National Board of Education's proposal for a new regulation of the hour plan. Such discussions have begun and include the question of additional teaching time in mathematics for grades 7 - 9. Teaching time is important, but research also points to the importance of teachers' teaching skills as the single most important factor for pupils' knowledge acquisition and results. The quality of teaching is therefore at least as important as the quantity. Teachers' time to prepare and create quality in teaching is crucial. By strengthening teachers' competence in mathematics and mathematics didactics through the further education efforts The Mathematics Lift and Teacher Lift II in combination with increased teaching time on the subject, more students will have the opportunity to reach the knowledge requirements even in middle and middle school. The Government has also set up an investigation into a read-write-count guarantee, which will submit its proposals to the Government in early autumn 2016. The reduction in the number of compulsory national examinations is an example of one of the government's efforts to increase the time for teachers to create quality in teaching. In addition, the Government has appointed the investigation Review of the national tests for primary and secondary schools, to further reduce the number of mandatory national tests and to digitise them. The report is equivalent, safe and effective – a new national system of knowledge assessment is now being consulted. In this context, I would also like to point out that the Government announced in the 2016 Budget Bill and in the 2016 Economic Spring Bill a national collection for the teaching profession. The Government's National Collection has a clear focus on increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession, including through efforts to raise teachers' salaries, quality investments in teacher and teacher training, skills development for teachers, investment in more staff at school and other measures that give teachers better opportunities to provide each student with good quality teaching. Overall, a number of efforts are being made to raise the Swedish students' knowledge performance in mathematics both through increased teaching time and improved teaching quality.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-567	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your answer. However, I must start by reminding the Government of remote education. The criticism of the Alliance and Moderates against the government's restrictive attitude and anti-technology attitude towards remote education was clear even when the legislation was updated a year ago. So it is not something that is so to say newly found and that had not been solved, despite the Lagrådet's criticism. We could have addressed this issue almost 18 months ago. Still, I'm going to go on and discuss mathematics. Sweden suffers greatly from a lack of mathematics skills. This leads to a lack of knowledge with serious consequences. Mathematics is not a substance among other subjects. Mathematics is a cornerstone for assimilation of other education. Mathematics is a key to managing other subjects in school and to developing. Mathematics is also not a topic among others when it comes to the problem for Swedish school students to get through the school system with good results. Lack of mathematics is today the single most common reason for falling into and making it impossible to obtain upper secondary school qualifications. One in ten students don't get to upper secondary school because you can't handle mathematics. Sweden stands out here. Sweden has low results in mathematics and also a negative trend in knowledge results in mathematics. There we stand out negatively compared to other countries. Sweden also stands out in terms of teaching time in mathematics. The gaps in knowledge that have arisen have not arisen in a vacuum, but it can be seen that there is a clear link to teaching time. If you compare Swedish students in grade 8 with equivalent students in other EU and OECD countries, Swedish students have more than 20 hours less mathematics. In grade 4 you have 40 hours less mathematics. We also know that these are theoretical figures, because there are also challenges in the Swedish school with teacherless lessons and cancelled lessons. Not all students get the support they want. In Swedish politics, we have long talked about these challenges. This is hardly something that is new, given that we have had declining results of knowledge since the 1980s, in terms of actual results. Although we are talking about these issues, although the OECD is paying tribute to us because we have a great deal of policy coherence when it comes to seeing and paying attention to the problems, we have not, quite frankly, delivered. Then what's the key? How, then, are we to increase the results of knowledge, especially in mathematics? Of course, good teachers are the most important things in their individual lives. Therefore, the math lift and other important things are important, but it doesn't matter very much if you don't get proper teaching time with teachers. Teaching time needs to be extended. During its eight years, the Alliance began to expand mathematics education when we were able to identify that Sweden was lagging behind in terms of teaching time. We extended the teaching time in the lowest ages. Since then, the Riksdag has decided to increase teaching time in both middle and secondary schools and also financed it. Now the government is finally making proposals for extension in middle school, but secondary school still has to wait. What's the government waiting for? When do we get to see the Government move from words to deeds?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-577	Mr President, I would like to On the subject of remote teaching, I would just like to put on the record that I believe that Erik Bengtzboes's description is incorrect. We went as far as possible with the preparation documentation prepared by the previous government. The Council considered that the assessment level was not fulfilled in the rather difficult question of how to work with construction issues. We could certainly not have gone further than what was presented to Parliament just over a year ago. To the question that the interpellation is about. We are expanding the teaching time in mathematics according to the plan originally presented by the previous government. The students who got more mathematics in the first grade now start the fourth in the fall and will then get more mathematics. We are now having discussions about how to deal with the demands for extended mathematics in high school as well. What my answer was about and which I also hear Erik Bengtzboe say is that it concerns both teaching time and the quality of teaching. The OECD's studies of Sweden are very clear in this. It not only asks students how many hours of teaching they receive, but also what kind of problems they face in mathematics education. Sweden stands out, and that is not positive. That is one of the reasons why we are not getting the good results that we need in mathematics. It goes without saying that we must make the necessary investments to enable mathematics teachers to reach their full potential and get the best conditions for their work. More teaching time is part of this, but that's not all. It is also about being able to develop collegially in collaboration with others, that the skills within the Swedish teaching staff should be disseminated and that teachers should have the time they need to prepare their lessons and create quality in teaching. Today, the government presented a partial report on the national collection. Some of the issues that have been discussed since the presentation of the Teacher Salary Lift are how to reduce teachers' administrative hours and increase their ability to create quality in their teaching.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-582	Mr President, I would like to Fine words in all honour, and there are few things that are presented at the DN Debate today that I object to. It is good that there are ambitions for Swedish school and also for the current government to continue to develop Swedish school. My view and that of the Moderates is that this level of ambition needs to be increased. This applies both to how the government chooses to work and to what time horizon is being discussed. The Government will return to these investigations and proposals that will be postponed, and we will soon be halfway through this term of office. How many times does Minister Fridolin have to be re-elected for there to be a proper delivery of things? I understand he wants to be re-elected, preferably many times over. I will not take that will away from him, but we need to raise the level of ambition when it comes to the pace of development in Swedish schools. It's not good enough to wait. Every single year the government does not carry out reforms on extended mathematics education, even though the Riksdag has decided to do so, 12 million hours of teaching in mathematics freeze in. There are 12 million teaching hours that would have been needed. Regarding ambition and fine words, how far does the Government's ambitions go? I understand that the government thinks it is important that we have good teachers. I do not believe that there is any representative in this House or anywhere else in Sweden who thinks that we would manage with worse teachers or who do not think that even better teachers are needed for the future. I interpret the Government's response so that it intends to follow up on the proposed extension of mathematics education that the Alliance established during its time and has subsequently decided by a majority in the Riksdag. But are you willing to go further? The Government paints a picture that the lack of mathematics education – both in time and quality – is a problem that hampers Swedish students' ability to seize their chances in life. How far is the government willing to go? Sweden lags behind, and that requires that you really dare to prioritise. It is clear that we can stand here and debate, and there are many things on which we can agree, but action is also required. The Alliance is ready to do it. The Moderates are ready to do it. In our latest shadow budget, we pushed to billions to enable more teaching time in mathematics and other subjects. It would be very welcome if the current government still thinks it would be a good idea to like the Moderates' proposal for extended mathematics education. A promise of that would certainly be exciting for the future.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-589	Mr President, I would like to This is perhaps not a judgment that Erik Bengtzboe will carry with the honor that I want to put in it, but, Erik Bengtzboe, you are currently the best opposition representative a minister of education can imagine. What you're saying is, do what you say you should do, do it faster and do it more! And yes, we do! We are struggling to make exactly the efforts that the interpellation response is about – both to increase teaching time in mathematics and to ensure that we have the methods and tools needed for teachers to develop by each other. It is not good words to increase teaching time by 105 hours in middle school, which will happen after autumn. It's action. It will be noticed for the mattellers and the students taught in mathematics. Erik Bengtzboe asks how far we are prepared to go. We want to develop permanent training measures in the form of national school development programmes. This means that the mathematical lift, which in the Alliance's bottling was a temporary effort, is now permanent as part of a national structure and thus will continue to exist. We ensure efforts to give teachers more time for their mission. The difficult priorities, which include reducing the number of mandatory national tests and upcoming digitalisation, provide more time for teachers to prepare lessons. We are also making great efforts to raise teachers' salaries and in other ways increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, so that more people want to become teachers, which is the very basis for increasing teaching time. If we are to extend teaching time, we must have teachers who can teach during that time, and today we have a great shortage of teachers, not least in the subject of mathematics. It is very good to have an educational policy debate in this House, as Minister for Education, about wanting to do more, to do things faster and to spend more money. I would have liked the situation to have looked that way earlier. We have met several times when I have been able to note that the number of educational staff in Swedish schools decreased quite drastically during the previous government. Instead, we have invested, and we obviously have good support for doing so. In the two years that have passed, we have reinstated. In 2014, there were almost 10,000 fewer employees in Swedish schools than in 2006, when the alliance government took office. Now there have been 13,000 more. It of course gives more time for the teachers to do their job and more time for the students with their teachers.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-592	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister, but I would like to inform him that the teaching density in Sweden was more or less constant during the eight years of the Alliance at the government, which he is very well aware of. It was positive in some municipalities and negative in other municipalities, but it is not true that the teacher density would have decreased during the year of the Alliance. The number of pupils decreased, as did the number of teachers, but teacher density remained constant. Do not let any other views deceive us! Swedish politics has long had a high tail in terms of education policy. But with the facts in hand, we must admit that we may not have been able to deliver at the level we have talked about, given that we have had school and education as one of the most prioritised issues in Swedish politics for almost 60 years, but the last 30 to 40 years have still had declining school results. This cannot be considered a good rating for policy overall. The Alliance government carried out massive reforms during its eight years in power to reverse that trend. I hear that the Government refers to much of it when he talks about the now positive developments in politics. Extended mathematics education, the Mathlift and other things are the policy of the Alliance. Good politics should be continued, so there's nothing strange about it. However, these reforms were not easy to implement. Then the criticism was that we did too much too fast. But sometimes that's exactly what's needed. Sweden is lagging behind. We would have to do more and make it faster. I would also like the current Minister for Education to get barked at the same thing as the old one, namely that he did too much too quickly, because that is what we need.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-595	Mr President, I would like to Oh, no! You will find no criticism from me of the efforts that were about collegial learning or that you would have more time with the students. My criticism was directed at the amount of reforms that allowed teachers less time to be with the students and needed to adapt to ever-changing political directives. I am pleased that we have shifted the focus in the Swedish school debate from grades and other issues with little impact on the results to what really does benefit, such as collegial development, teaching time and how we invest in individual subjects. Teacher density is a wrong concept if you are to measure the time the teachers have to work with their students. I think Erik Bengtzboe knows that. When teachers have time to work with their students, it's not just about how many fellow teachers you have. It is also about the school librarian, student health and specialist skills, those that allow me as a teacher to devote myself to my job. When they are cut off, the teacher's ability to do his job decreases. Then you finally get to do four or five other jobs and have no time left for the students. It was the employees who were largely cut off from Swedish school during the previous government. It is clear in Skolverket's statistics that we took up employment in a situation where almost 10 000 fewer people worked in the Swedish school compared to 2006. In this way, the school had to pay for the five job tax deductions carried out by the Alliance. That was your priority. Now we have invested in school. We have invested in hiring new employees. Today there are 13 000 more people working in the Swedish school than when I took office as Minister of Education. This means that students have more time with their teachers and that teachers have more time to create quality in their teaching. It will also increase the quality of the next math lesson.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-598	Mr President, I would like to Erik Bengtzboe has asked me how much longer Swedish students should have to wait for me and the government to act in accordance with the Riksdag's decision to increase teaching time in school by making the preschool class part of primary school. I agree with Erik Bengtzboe that there is a broad consensus in Swedish politics about the value of a school that gives all students the opportunity to get a good start in life. Today, however, many pupils do not reach the goals of comprehensive school education. The government's response to this challenge is investment to provide early support for pupils, strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession and create an equal school for all pupils. The Government also believes that increased teaching time can give students better opportunities to succeed in school. Therefore, on 17 March this year, the Government handed over the bill Further teaching time in mathematics to the Riksdag. The proposal proposes that the minimum total teaching time in mathematics be gradually increased by 105 hours in grades 4 to 6 from the next academic year in comprehensive school and corresponding school forms. This also means that the total teaching time is increased. Further teaching time for the students has also been proposed by the Comprehensive School Investigation. The study presented its report More time for knowledge – preschool class, extended compulsory education and holiday school(SOU 2015:81) on 2 October last year. The study proposes, among other things, that the preschool class should remain a separate school form but become compulsory, which means that compulsory schooling takes place at the age of six. The report has been referred to, and the proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. The government intends to return to the opposition on this issue in order to hold talks on the further process. Teaching time is important, but research also points to the importance of the teacher's teaching skills as the single most important factor for pupils' knowledge acquisition and results. The quality of teaching is therefore at least as important as the quantity. In this context, I would like to highlight the investigation into a read-write-count guarantee that submits its proposals to the government in early autumn 2016. The purpose of the study is to draw up a proposal for a system that ensures that all students receive the support or special support they need in order to have the conditions to reach the knowledge requirements that are to be achieved at least in the subjects Swedish or Swedish as second language and mathematics in grade 3 in comprehensive school and Sami school as well as in grade 4 in special school. The investigator will analyse, among other things, the needs of principals, principals and teachers for competence development. Overall, I believe that the efforts made by the government – early intervention, enhanced attractiveness for the teaching profession, increased equivalence and, in some cases, increased teaching time – together will give all students better opportunities to get a good start in life.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-603	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister very much for his answer. Sweden, despite high political ambitions, high political goals and huge resources spent on education, has had declining results in recent decades, ever since the 1980s. This is not a positive development for Sweden as a country. This is not a positive development for the grade for Swedish politics. And that's definitely not-- maybe that's the most important thing--a positive development in creating and enabling life chances for people. There is nothing so powerful about what we are doing in this House, nothing that makes such a big difference to people's lives, like delivering a good education to all children in this country, an education where you get a chance to shape your own life, your own future and your own opportunities based on your own skills and interests, no matter where you come from and what you have in your luggage. After the PISA report that came a couple of years ago, the low results in Swedish schools seemed to have taken a great many Swedes on their bed despite the fact that we had had declining results for a long time and for a long time at least during the alliance government had a crisis awareness in education policy. We were aware of the need for major changes. It was something that was also being done, and we received criticism for doing too much. Nevertheless, many seemed to be caught up in bad politics and bad school not delivering good results. At the same time, we know that Swedish students receive considerably less teaching time than students in other comparable countries. It's a challenge. We can do no less than others do and still expect us to get as good or perhaps even better school results. What is even worse than what that betrayal means at an aggregate level for all students who do not get the chance to reach as far as they wish is the betrayal it means for those students who are in absolute greatest need of support. They are the students who start to lag behind early in school because they do not get the efforts they need. These are the efforts that we know that if they only come in early they can deliver and make all the difference that is needed. It is the students who are most disappointed in a school with low follow-up and little teaching time. Reading-writing-counting guarantees, assessment support and past and clearer efforts are of course incredibly important to face it. But that is not enough within the current framework alone. If the preschool class were to become part of comprehensive school, this would allow for even earlier and even clearer support. Those pupils would be subject to the same legislation and the same rights under the School Act as the pupils attending the regular school. That would be considerably more powerful support for those students who are lagging behind. It would be a significantly better opportunity to strengthen the level of knowledge in Sweden than to make the preschool class compulsory. This is also something that the Riksdag has decided. There is a clear majority to continue the development that the Alliance began by increasing teaching time. Yet the government chooses to pull its legs and would rather look at other alternatives than just turning the preschool class into a part of primary school. Why are you so slow?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-611	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me avoid the interpellation debate spreading a misunderstanding which I often hear and which I believe is likely to hit students hard. Even in the preschool class, you as a student are entitled to special support. It is important that it is made clear. That is what the School Inspectorate and the principals are to deliver. It is important that students and parents know that this is the case. Pupils are entitled to special support for their work even in preschool classes. How, then, does the government work to meet this and ensure that all six-year-olds get a good start in a compulsory school where they get to start their knowledge journey in such a way that when they leave primary school in third grade they bring with them the basic knowledge of reading, writing and counting so that they can then go out of ninth grade and bring with them all the knowledge they need further in life and for a secondary school qualification? We strengthen and clarify the central content of the preschool class. On Thursday, the government will decide on new chapters in the curriculum with a chapter specifically for the preschool class. This is important not least in order to be able to follow up on pupils receiving the special support to which they are entitled. Then you can compare with the central content of a curriculum. So far, it has been rather unclear what the preschool class should contain. The new chapter on the preschool class greatly improves it. We want to ensure that all six-year-olds are in a compulsory school form. We have asked the comprehensive school inquiry to look at both the alternative that the preschool class becomes compulsory and the alternative that the preschool class becomes part of comprehensive school. Both options are on the table. The comprehensive school inquiry proposes that the preschool class should be compulsory but continue as a form of school of its own. But both options are on the table. Then, of course, it is a question of linking the work with reading, writing and counting from preschool class to grade 3. Based on it, the read-write-count guarantee is prepared. Associate Professor Ulf Fredriksson, who has previously been responsible for reading comprehension in the Swedish PISA tests, is now developing a system for how this can work. He looks especially at the preschool class and the development there to be the start of the goals that students should achieve in the third class and also the goals that they should achieve in the first class. Sometimes when you follow the debate it is a little hard to see what the difference is between the Alliance's proposal to abolish the preschool class and make it a new grade 1 and our proposal. But when I scratch it, I usually find that the biggest difference is whether preschool teachers should be qualified to teach six-year-olds or not. My view and that of the government is that preschool teachers are academically trained experts to work with early childhood learning. We find it difficult to see that in the time of the teacher shortage we would suddenly make them unfit to work with six-year-olds. We think it is good when working with six-year-olds that preschool and comprehensive school pedagogy meet in the way that happens in the preschool class today. However, it is self-evident that if you are to strengthen the knowledge for reading, writing and counting, the teachers who work from the preschool class to grade 3 need competence development in order to be able to do so. Of course, the development of skills will be different depending on the basic education they have. A preschool teacher has some basic education and therefore needs to supplement certain things. A primary school teacher has other basic education and needs to supplement with other things. In addition, it may differ from when they received their education what the teacher training actually contained. We will put forward proposals on this particular type of competence development so that a reading-write-count guarantee can become real from the preschool class to year 3. When all these proposals are on the table, we are fully prepared to meet with the opposition to see how we can put forward a joint proposal.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-621	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that, Minister. A developed and expanded primary school is not only important because we need more teaching time to manage to reach a long way. It is also of the utmost importance to ensure that those students who need early support receive early support. It is about that they should be able to learn to read, that they should be able to learn to write and that they should break the code and learn the language of mathematics. They need this in order to have the opportunity to assimilate all the amazing knowledge that exists today in Swedish schools. This is the knowledge that Swedish teachers possess but that they do not really get the chance to pass on to their students every day. There is a good opportunity to provide strong and good support already in the preschool class today. But it is not as strong support as pupils can receive and above all demand in primary school. Moreover, if we were to make the preschool class part of comprehensive school straight off and turn it into grade 1, grade 0 or whatever we want to call it, we could achieve a guaranteed better functioning cohesion throughout that part of school life. It will no longer be a handover from preschool to primary school, but it will be part of the same journey. It is also of the utmost importance that the educators from the preschool class have an opportunity to accompany them. The work that is currently taking place in the preschool class is extremely successful and makes an incredible difference to how far students are able to reach knowledge. We can look at people's school results more or less at what preschool they have attended and what a difference it makes for their ability to get far in their studies and in their results in school. This is particularly true when it comes to completing comprehensive school at all and moving on to upper secondary school. Could we make sure that preschool educators were given the opportunity to further educate themselves and be part of the comprehensive school, they could go further up the age range. They need not be limited to training six-year-olds, to which Gustav Fridolin refers. They could follow with higher age levels and make a much greater effort. Sweden is currently doing less in the field of education when we talk about pure teaching time than other countries do. We still expect better results. We are even paying more and better than other countries for their education, but we are getting less output in terms of both teaching hours and results. We cannot continue in the same track and expect us to maintain our position while throwing the students in front of the bus and sacrificing them for the results when they have to wait. During the alliance years, we expanded mathematics education, strengthened teacher competence development and redesigned teacher training to enable all of this. We also maintained teacher density and constantly increased funding for Swedish schools every year despite the fact that we were experiencing a financial crisis. It is something that I think every government of any color should be proud of. Add to that that every Swedish teacher received more or less a full month's salary in his wallet thanks to the job tax deduction – something that greatly increases the attractiveness of working in school. That is something we should be happy about. The Alliance government had a ready-made proposal that was submitted to the Riksdag to make comprehensive school ten years old. It was financed and clearly, it was in the budget, it was decided on it and it was then withdrawn by the current government. Why are you so slow? Why do you not dare to move forward on the path that the Alliance started because you obviously do not want to back away from it?
i-14bde00c78bf2433-630	Mr President, I would like to I must admit that I do not quite understand Erik Bengtzboes's logic. One moment Erik Bengtzboe speaks with a laudable use of language about how good preschool we have in Sweden. When pre-school education really gets time and when it reaches the students, we can see the effects even in the PISA tests, as students do when they are 15-year-olds, you mean. But the next moment you say: That's why we have to push pre-school education away from the six-year-olds. That logic doesn't make sense. If we have good preschool pedagogy, we will develop the preschool class, which today is a bridge between preschool pedagogy and comprehensive school pedagogy. Then it does not hold to say that pre-schoolers should have the choice between transforming themselves into primary school teachers or disappearing from the preschool class. Nor can I understand why, when we are faced with the great lack of teachers that we have today, we should incite a large group of teachers – academically trained experts in small children's learning – when it comes to working with six-year-olds. I want the preschool class, in its own form or as part of comprehensive school, to continue to be a meeting between preschool and comprehensive school pedagogy. Care should be taken to ensure that pupils' journey of knowledge – and this applies to all pupils and children, including the percentage not currently in preschool – starts to meet the goals set as knowledge requirements in grade 3. To do this, we need more stringent rules. Therefore, on Thursday we will decide on a central content for the preschool class. There will be a new chapter in the curriculum. We make it easier to invoke the right to special support. There is a clearer comparison, and so it is good that this chapter is in place. We will decide on this on Thursday. Therefore, we are also developing a reading-write-count guarantee from the preschool class to grade 3, which will of course contain elements on what further training teachers need. But it can't just be the supervisors who work with the six-year-olds who need further training to ensure that all students reach the knowledge requirements in grade 3. I think it is also about those who are educated primary school teachers being able to get the best skills available in the Swedish school system. We will have the best systems to ensure that a student who needs extra support will receive this support in place. That's why we have the read-write-count guarantee.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-634	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Government, and thank you to the Riksdag Administration for all this being filmed and taped so that I do not have to repeat to the Government what was said about the pre-colleagues! He can simply, like everyone else, look at the band again and realize that logic is connected. I believe that the kind of dishonest rhetoric that the Government is engaged in is also being seen through quite easily. Sweden needs higher ambitions in education policy. Sweden needs to move faster forward. We need a braver government that dares deliver and does not hide behind sending investigations to the future. We need more math lessons. We need more teaching time overall. We need better skills development for all teachers. It is an area in which we know that we are clearly failing against many other countries in our environment. We need clearer responsibilities at school so that we can make better use of better teachers. More teaching time is a key to achieving better results. We cannot do less and expect as good or even better results than other countries. If we make the preschool class part of comprehensive school, we get more teaching time. We get previous follow-up, and we get an opportunity for pre-school education to follow into primary school where we can get the absolute best use for it. In addition, there happens to be a majority in the Swedish parliament to implement this reform. Therefore, perhaps it would be smoother for the government if it chose to go the way that there is a majority for instead of fighting windmills – if that's how the government describes it, that the difference between the options is fine. In doing so, Mr President, I shall conclude by trying to be a little nice and congratulate the Government on its birthday. I hope you have more and more fun things that you have time to do tonight than just hang out with me.
i-14bde00c78bf2433-639	Mr President, I would like to The only thing that's more fun than fighting windmills is possibly hanging out with them because your parable was probably about you being the windmill. I know that Parliament has made decisions in the form of an announcement. Of course, an announcement should be accompanied according to the rules that exist. In conclusion, however, I would like to say on the record that I cannot understand what is dishonest in looking at the consequence of the moderate proposal for the individual preschool teacher who today works, thrives and does an amazingly good job in the preschool class. The consequence of saying that the only ones qualified to work in a future compulsory school form for six-year-olds are educated primary school teachers is that those preschool teachers who work there today have to choose between re-forming as primary school teachers or leaving the preschool class and their activities with six-year-olds. I cannot understand why this signal is needed for academically trained experts in small children's learning, who today make a big difference in the preschool class in collaboration with educated primary school teachers. Having said that – thank you very much for the congratulations! Now the evening goes on.
