i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-0	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Mr President for accepting this debate. I would also like to thank the other parties for their participation and would like to debate this important issue. For a long time we have met alarm reports about what the situation for the Swedish police looks like. Signals are increasingly alarming. We need to take them more seriously. The government must show clearer leadership. We see a shortage of resources, a shortage of staff, dissatisfaction with wages and police who quit in despair. A major and important reorganisation has become an increasing strain on the entire police force. We see sexual harassment at summer music festivals, car fires and riots and theft leagues in the countryside. Concerns and insecurity throughout the country are allowed to grow. This is a serious development. We have met representatives of both the Police Federation and police officers to get a picture of the situation. It's not a bright picture that's met us. It strengthens us in the view that the additional resources and the enforcement measures proposed by the Center Party are absolutely necessary and that the crisis in the police requires action here and now – not then, but here and now. Around Sweden there are thousands of police officers who make outstanding efforts. They're doing their utmost. But many of them ask the same question that I will ask in this debate: how can we improve the situation for Swedish police? Let the debate begin!
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-5	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Center Party and the opposition for the initiative for this debate. Two years ago, a united parliament, police union and police management agreed on a new police organization. The background was a long series of years of falling investigation results and a feeling that despite major financial contributions it was difficult to discern a positive change with a crime that has developed and demanded increasingly cross-border coordination. It came to be the largest reorganisation of the Swedish police since the 1960s. Although high hopes were tied to the reform, hardly anyone thought it would be possible to implement it without pain. I believe that the then government, the parliament, the Implementation Committee, the police leadership and the police union worked with the very best intentions. But no one at this time could know what a dramatic change the world around us and the future was waiting for. One could not know how the achievements of IS and the war in Syria would drive millions of people on the run. In one year, 163 000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden – more than ever before. In order to ensure order and security, the government decided for the first time in 20 years to introduce internal border controls. Several acts of terrorism in our surrounding world have led to increased terrorist preparedness and a need to develop our ability to prevent, complicate and prevent terrorist offences. All this happened at the same time as the new police organization was launched. Of course, it has affected and created a lot of pressure for Swedish police. There are also, as with all major reorganisations, decisions that went wrong, things that should have been done differently, and squares and lines that could not cope with the tight reality. Soon, Statskontoret's first interim evaluation of the reform will be completed. I can be very clear: the goal is not the most beautiful reorganisation in the world. The goal is more secure citizens and a reduction in crime. We have a joint responsibility for correcting shortcomings but also for building on things that have become good. Despite all that is written and said about the Swedish police, every day great deeds are done by 29 000 hard-working employees. Take Södertälje, where there were major problems with gangs and with serious organised crime. After a major effort where municipalities, authorities and police cooperated, Södertälje is now a much safer place than before. Take Trollhättan, where the police managed to neutralize the offender Anton Lundin Pettersson 45 seconds after arriving at the scene. Take Botkyrka outside Stockholm, where the police are gathering power and where today there are twice as many police officers as before. Take the development in Gothenburg, where for a long time it was very difficult to get convictions in the many shootings that hit the city. But after Vårvädstorget they succeeded in a solid investigation effort to link eight perpetrators to the murders. The District Court sentenced them to life for murder and to 14 years in prison for accessory to murder. Already this spring, the government provided substantial resources for the Police Authority to cope with the increased workload. Two weeks ago, I and the Minister of Finance presented further measures. Over the next few years, we will invest more than SEK 2 billion in the police. The police will also be able to use their budget savings in the coming years. This, of course, means a substantial increase in the number of police officers, but it also means that we can improve the working environment and working conditions for the police. We will closely monitor the need for resources and the results ahead and ensure that the police are in a good position to carry out their mission. However, if we are to free up resources for core business, we must also question whether what we are doing today really needs to be done by the police. That is why we are also proposing a number of clean-up operations for the police. Society needs to show rapid, clear and legal responses to young people and repeat offenders. Emergency courts need to be tried against this kind of crime. We also want smarter sanctions for young people. We want to make it possible, with the anklet's help, to sentence to house arrest in the evenings and weekends so that you can stay in school but not be able to be out running and causing trouble. Police, rescue services and ambulance personnel have witnessed for far too long a trend with more threats and violence. To go after someone who's set up to help others is, frankly, a bitch. We must work long-term and preventively to improve the situation. But we also need to tighten the penalties for those who attack blue-light personnel. We have taken a series of measures to strengthen society's resilience to serious organised crime. As late as July 1st, some twenty new laws came into force. We are introducing rules of secrecy and opening up to local government cooperation. We make it possible to judge gang leaders because they have not prevented crime that they know of. We are investigating the introduction of secret data reading so that the secret coercive devices can also be used against those using encrypted platforms such as Viber and Skype. It is a question of increased acquisition, which means that it is easier to confiscate criminal profits for those convicted of serious crime. In Stockholm the police stopped a serious criminal in a Porsche Cayenne as late as last weekend. Instead of going out into the pub night, he had to give up the Porsche and go home. He also had to hand over watches and jewelry worth over $5,000. Step by step, we are strengthening police resources in socially vulnerable areas. Step by step, we make it harder to be a criminal.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-17	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish police must work. Dramatically falling investigation results, alarm reports, a police officer who does not respond to crime at all times and the difficulty of arriving at the police on the phone combined with major challenges are examples of the police having serious problems. The list of shortcomings can be made much longer. Criticism stands like rods on the slopes, and it touches big and small. It is sometimes difficult to sort out if something is happening that is right at all, and it is good that it is highlighted that there are also some things that are handled right. The main task of the police is to intervene and investigate crimes. No one else has that task. The police's unique community mission places demands on the authority's efficiency, competence and achievement of its objectives. In recent years, the police have become increasingly difficult to carry out their duties. Last year, the proportion of solved offences was the lowest in 16 years. It is not a clear trend downwards we have seen, but we have had a certain upswing as well. But this last year, we've seen a decline. When I discussed this matter with the Home Secretary last week, the message was that it will be even worse – even worse than we have seen in a very long time. What does the government intend to do about it? The government and Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman must take these problems seriously. Listening or following developments is not enough. Clear answers are needed, and initiatives are needed. The government has asked the Crime Prevention Council to investigate the causes of the low crime resolution. That is a good thing, but we cannot wait for an investigation that takes a long time, but we have to deal with things where there is already knowledge of the shortcomings. Well-proven technology and procedures that work when used actually lift the crime clearance, and we see it in some places. Why not make sure to spread the knowledge and make demands on first-hand efforts to conduct crime scene investigations, take advantage of evidence and testimony and add new data to the DNA register and so on? There are a lot of things that can be done here and now that do not require any analysis and that can improve things that we know are not working well. One of the basic ideas of police reform and the new organisation was to work more effectively across the country and across old territory borders. We still see very little of it. We are often told that all the problems are due to this police reform. There is no doubt that implementation has not worked in every part, and we receive this report from Statskontoret. It goes without saying that obvious shortcomings should be corrected. I don't even think it's politically controversial. I think we will be in full agreement on that. What concerns me is that many people are happy to blame the organisation when it comes to what initiatives they take on the ground and what leadership is exercised in everyday life. It is not the politicians' fault when you lose and then close an investigation into gun threats against an elderly couple in a cemetery in Malmö. It is not the politicians' fault when an abused woman in Värmland becomes unconscious for hours and the police – when you finally come – do not go in because it is out of the house. It is not the politicians' fault when you answer half-heartedly a person who has found a suspected mugger's car in the woods shortly after an armed robbery outside Stockholm. This is about culture, leadership and routines, and there is no blame on the organisation. The problem consists of two parts, and they are culture and, of course, resources. These may be the causes of these kinds of problems that the public are discussing. As far as resources are concerned, the government's draft budget is disappointing. The police have requested strong reinforcement, and citizens who have experienced that the police are not working naturally think that resource reinforcements should come. The proposals that have been put forward mean, in full expansion, an increase of the budget by 1 billion by 2020. The government makes a point of this, of course, because it's a lot of money. The concern is that Chief Police Officer Dan Eliasson has already promised away the bulk of this money to civilian employees. If we've counted right, there won't be much left for pure police efforts. It is possible that it will have to be adjusted now that you have black and white what the government comes with, but there will be no substantial reinforcement of the number of police officers. But it is necessary because the population has grown and the challenges are greater than ever. The Moderates and other alliance parties will make a difference, because we will spend resources on more police officers and more civilian workers. It's going to be necessary. We Moderates focus in our proposals on police officers who are primarily to be put into exclusion areas and in sparsely populated areas where the problems are greatest. Of course, we also want to see more civilian workers being able to relieve the police. We also think that a minimum level is needed in terms of the number of police officers as a guarantee of quality, because only trained police officers can carry out certain tasks. I have seen in the past how to starve foxes with the police organization by saving the number of police officers, and we do not want to see that again. The judiciary must be strong. The police must be strong. This requires action and that we take Statskontoret's report seriously. But that also requires efforts here and now from the government. We have a concrete plan for what needs to be done. The government responds by thinking, and you're numbering and saying that this is probably the responsibility of the police organization. But, Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman, you have to answer how to make the police more effective and how to clear up more crimes.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-33	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has initiated this debate on the situation of the police. It certainly does not hurt to talk about it these days. The only problem is that the Center Party, like probably everyone else, will have a high tone and beat itself to the chest in this debate. It will be somewhat difficult to do with credibility in view of the other parties' policy for the police in particular over the years. Let's start with the Center Party. What did they propose to the Political Authority's budget for 2016 in the last sharp budget they put in last year? Not a single crown more. The fact is that if you look at their draft budget, you can see that they cut back on the funds for the justice system as a whole. They wanted to spend less than SEK 15 million on crime prevention. That was their proposal less than a year ago. The Center Party wanted to cut down even more on the judiciary. In their original proposal, they wanted to reduce by SEK 145 million, but they were not allowed to do the price and salary recalculation they wanted to do. For 2017, they wanted to reduce by SEK 245 million, for 2018 they wanted to reduce by SEK 375 million and for 2019 they wanted to reduce the judiciary by over half a billion. This was therefore less than a year ago, and today they are standing here pretending that they are the defenders of the judiciary when they were the ones who wanted to cut down most of all parties in this Parliament. It's not very impressive. What can we say about the Liberals? It's the suckling thing there. They certainly did not want to cut as much – only 10 million on the judiciary. They spent a little more on the police: 5 million kroner. If you put it in relation to the po- lisen's budget of SEK 21 560 million, it appears that the Liberals' investment was an increase of 1/ 4312 in the police budget. In principle, then, it was absolutely nothing. Not enough of that. What was their bet of $5 million? Yes, it should be earmarked for support for undeclined work in municipalities to prevent radicalisation towards violent extremism. In a debate in the News, Roger Haddad explained more closely what it meant: m er pen ger to recreation centres and mosques you. At best, it doesn't make any difference. In the worst case, it aggravates the situation by pumping more tax money into exactly the organizations where radicalisation takes place. What about the Moderates? They were something better. They invested SEK 50 million in the police, most of which would go to the National Task Force. But it was not a budget for civil servants and no budget for so much more than that. KD added SEK 35 million, which is also a minimal bet. If you take a cut of the alliance parties' efforts on the judiciary, you can see that they would thus invest less than the Social Democratic Government did last year. What about the government? Well, in the first budget they spent in the autumn of 2014 they financed the police with about SEK 1 billion along with what the Implementation Committee said was needed. The following year they had got a pli on Social Democrat Dan Eliasson, because then the police suddenly didn't need that billion but demanded 1 billion less – it was of course convenient for the government – b ara to just after last year's budget panicked say: Oh, we do need more money! One could easily say that no party except the Swedish Democrats was able to anticipate the need of the police. What did we do in contrast to everyone else? We sat down hard on the justice system and above all on the police. In 2014, we proposed an extra 2 700 million to the judiciary, of which 11⁄2 billion went to the police. That's 300 times more than what the Liberals bet or 30 times more than what the M oderates bet. In 2015, i.e. last year, we proposed an extra 2 billion to the judiciary, almost half of which went to the police, including in the form of an investment of 7 000 new police officers – not 1 000, which the Moderates were in, although they now raised to 2 000. We also wrote in our budget that we need to have a target adapted to demographic trends – 250 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants – so that we can maintain this level. In a few years we'll be down to the same police density as in 2006 when the Moderates made their bet on the police. What I am describing here, Mr President, is a pattern that I have been trying for some time to highlight in this House, namely the ability of the other parties, or lack of ability, to analyse reality. For countless issues, we have said what is needed for years and years. The others have denied it and laughed at us. Sometimes they have said that we do post-construction. But we have been right about immigration policy, as we have seen. When it comes to age determination, everyone has suddenly turned on a femöringen. In the same way, it is with begging, defence, energy policy and a host of issues in criminal policy. Once again, these parties, which have consistently underfunded the police, are standing by and pretending to be capable of action when they have been just the opposite. In my second post, I will go into a little more detail on what is needed in addition to increased resources to the police. Today it is primarily a question of leadership within the Police Authority, where Dan Eliasson may be the biggest symbol of failure. It offers criminals coffee and buns or hot dogs and does not allow their own police to carry out the tasks that they are actually required to do, including finding illegal immigrants. This is blocked by the sign of political correctness, which I will go into a little more in my next speech.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-49	Mr President, I would like to During the opening of this debate, we have heard about a number of challenges that Swedish police have faced in recent years. We have heard about how a major reorganisation has created uncertainty and made many who work in the police no longer know what their working situation will be in the future. The reorganisation was planned to last until the end of 2016, i.e. for two years. Two years is a long time for many to think. I believe that, just as the Minister for the Interior was on the subject, we can be hindsighted about what could have been done differently. Of course, it is natural and important that we as politicians put the light on the challenges and look for solutions to the problems. Those who are satisfied with the state of affairs do not have much to do in politics. We need to get to grips with the declining investigation results, but we cannot blame them on the reorganisation. For many years, the Green Party has highlighted this issue. The police have had poor investigation results that have not improved, despite historically large investments in the police. I believe that this is what the old government saw, and it was a problem that it wanted to solve by having a more effective police and organisation. The results requested by a united parliament are not yet visible. We must continue to monitor this. At the same time, the police already have many answers. In 2014, the police's investigation of sexual offences was examined. A number of proposals that can already be implemented have been presented. The same applies in areas by area. On the IT side, the police have a new strategy that will lead to more efficient work and more efficient use of the IT tools that already exist today. Progress is underway. We have challenges, and there are many development projects that have been launched. Of course, it is important to talk about the problems, but let us not forget the fantastic efforts being made today by police and other police officers. Let us not forget that the police have done something that we have sometimes heard in political discussions would be impossible: they have investigated terrorist offences, which have led to convictions for crimes committed abroad. That is something that has sometimes been said in some of our debates to be impossible. We've seen prosecution of right-wing extremists and left-wing extremists. There is a lot of good work going on in the Swedish police. Mr President, I would like to Many want to become police officers in Sweden, despite the heated discussion in the media about many of the problems that policemen face in their everyday lives. And despite debates on wage levels and the working environment, it is still a very attractive profession that record numbers are seeking. For the spring training, 8,382 people have applied. I am pleased that many people want to work within and contribute to the Swedish police. Thanks to the efforts promised by the Government in the autumn budget, more people will also have that opportunity in the future. Mr President, I would like to I do not want to go back to or take part in the discussion that took place in Parliament's Chamber when we gave figures on how many would be in the various professional categories of the police. I believe that the most successful model for steering the Swedish police is the government's focus away from pin hunting and numerical control – simple goals – and instead allowing the police to make decisions based on the local problem pictures and the needs analysis they make. Mr President, I would like to In my next post, I will continue to talk about what challenges we in the Green Party want to tackle and what solutions we think are most important.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-58	Mr President, I would like to The purpose of this debate is to find answers to how we can improve the situation for the police and how the government intends to take responsibility for security. Parliament, the police and the public deserve to know this. The debate is urgent because people's security is threatened when the police are not given the right conditions to do their job. It is urgent because the police's mission is fundamental to a functioning legal society. This is also an example of the division of Sweden – between security and insecurity – that we must break. By June this year, 60 per cent more police officers had resigned than in 2015. The Police Federation is threatening a strike, and fewer and fewer crimes are cleared up. Just over a week ago, the Legal Affairs Party spokesperson Johan Hedin received 5,000 signatures for increased security and more police officers. It was signatures collected in Kalmar County. Around the country there are the same concerns as in Kalmar. It is about the fact that the police are no longer enough and can no longer maintain security. When staffing is not enough, when police offices are closed down and police are moved around, insecurity is created. When car fires, stoning against blue light personnel and organised theft tours form a pattern, the rule of law is under attack. Then we must be clear. It should never be tolerated. It should always be fought. The police need the necessary resources to do their job, and they need legislation to make this possible. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the police are in need of more resources, and it is clear that Sweden is in need of more police officers in external service. That is also why the Center Party has allocated more than half a billion to the police in the course of next year, compared to the government's 100 million. We spend over 2.4 billion over four years on the open police, which would mean, among other things, 2 000 more police officers and additional resources for both investigative activities and better working conditions. We invest 50 million to increase attendance and investigate more cases of harassment, including at music festivals. In order to identify crimes of honour, we have asked for an honorary commission to be set up so that effective action can be taken against these terrible acts: genital mutilation, persecution, coercion, violence and murder. We let the police make a budget saving and use 415 million from the 2016 budget in 2017. With the Center Party's budget for next year, the police receive almost 1 billion in resource reinforcement, considerably more than the government adds. We have also proposed clear penalties for offences against blue-light personnel and new harsher penalties for those who throw stones at the police or prevent emergency vehicles from arriving. We are clear that the reorganisation that the police are now doing is the result of broad political unity and will be implemented responsibly, but that the government must show greater leadership. It is remarkable that the government does not take the alarming information coming from the police in the tracks of the reorganisation more seriously. The objectives of reorganisation must be followed up. The ambition that it would lead to an increased police presence in society must become a reality. Responsibility for implementing decisions taken rests heavily on the government's shoulders. I welcome the fact that the government has listened to us and the other alliance parties, which have long called for budgetary reinforcements. But it is a pity that the efforts are barely even half-hearted, and it is serious that the only significant contributions are far too far ahead, because the crisis is taking place here and now. But while the government is waiting and the efforts are delayed, the Center Party and the rest of the Alliance continue to push forward. We are serious about the need to increase security throughout the country and that the police are one of the keys to making this possible. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to see a new leadership for Sweden, a clear leadership for the police and a broad and responsible policy for security throughout the country. In the autumn, we will present here in the Swedish Parliament a party motion which, on point after point, proposes measures against violence and crime, against sex crimes and juvenile delinquency for a safer and safer Sweden. We will continue to invest in the police. We will also show that we are serious about stopping the ongoing division of Sweden and reducing exclusion. More jobs, the presence of the rule of law and resources for civil society crime prevention are part of a whole. These are important steps on the road to a safer Sweden, and these are obvious priorities for the Center Party. These should also be obvious priorities for the Swedish Government. What does the government do to create a more efficient organisation and security throughout the country? What the government is actually proposing are budgetary efforts that are lagging behind the next elections, but what is needed is efforts here and now. What does the government do to solve the police crisis?
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-68	Mr President, I would like to We in the Left want a policeman who can be trusted, who has good local knowledge, who can distinguish a hate crime from an assault, who knows the school children and the prank, who is safe in their official practice and who can cope with the pressure when society and politics say different things. The Left Party wants a police officer with many colleagues and with strong labour law. We want police officers who are experts in men's violence against women and who are really cruel at communicating contacts to the victim support services. We want a police officer who works long-term and crime prevention. We want policemen who are proud. The Left Party wants more local cops. We want a blue-light patrol to prevent stoning. We want enhanced work against hate crimes. We want a special police officer against online hate. In the budget that we have presented together with the government, the police receive 100 million this year and a major effort on crime prevention. That's good. Unlike the Alliance and especially the Moderates, we do not use the police as political hostages to mark against the government. The Alliance is using the police situation today to paint a doomsday picture of a Sweden where nothing works anymore. This doesn't make any sense. Confidence in the judiciary has only increased. The security of society is also increasing. But of course, much can get better. However, we must trust the police. We must trust that the police can solve their own problems and that all the skilled personnel working in the agency can cope with their situation. When the Parliament passed the decision on the organisation of the police in 2013, all the cards were on the table. What Beatrice Ask wanted to do as Minister of Justice was done. What the police are now doing is following the decision made by the Riksdag. It's easy to be hindsight as moderate. We're standing right now in the eye of the storm. 1.5 million crimes were reported in 2015. We have a serious situation in the suburbs. Last Friday, the Police Federation flagged because 80 police chiefs are going into the wall. What, then, does the government choose to do? Well, make sure the police hunt undocumented. In the incredibly serious situation that the police are in right now, the government is prioritising that the police should go into the workplace and hunt undocumented. We in the Left Party are extremely critical of this priority. Of course the Aliens Act should be followed. But such a policy will lead to greater racial profiling. It is also extremely anti-business. The Left Party demands that the government assume its anti-racist responsibility. Unlike what DN Hanne Kjöller writes, a Swedish police officer is not silent. The police have an incredible number of colleagues who roar when things aren't right. The police have a very skilled trade union, which organizes, debates and argues when things are not right. The Center Party – this party that detests labour law, collective solutions and the organisation of workers – absolutely loves the Polisförbundet. It makes me happy and a little surprised, and I welcome it. I want to ask the Center Party and Annie Lööf a question. What is the next trade union that the Center Party will embrace? Is it perhaps Kommunal, given the situation of nurses in our municipalities and county councils? But I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Center Party into the trade union struggle. We need to organize to be strong.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-77	Mr President, I would like to The situation for the Swedish police is serious. Declining results, a strained operational situation and a strained working environment justify a number of measures. This could have been an introduction I wrote myself to today's speech. It could also have been what the Left Party calls doomsday prophecies. But the text actually comes from a decision taken on 13 September 2016 by the national strategic management team within the Swedish police. We have ended up in a situation that requires us to again invite or call the Minister for Home Affairs to hear how the government thinks with the most important and largest judicial authority with over 30 000 employees and more than 20 000 police officers. I've been listening to the Home Secretary here. He tells us we were united. Yes, we agreed when the Riksdag decided to reorganize the police from 1 January 2015. The Home Secretary also says that we have a common responsibility for making changes. I am not going to take responsibility for how the Government and the Head of the Government have handled the implementation of Parliament's decisions. Mr President, I would like to There is nowhere in Parliament's decision that we should not have district police in vulnerable areas. There is nowhere in Parliament's decision that even a year and a half after the decision there should still not be district police officers, that is, local police officers, in the particularly vulnerable areas. It's not in all parts. Especially in the Stockholm area, appointments and search with lights and lanterns are still ongoing for police officers who are willing to work in particularly vulnerable areas. There is nowhere, Minister of the Interior, in Parliament's decision that there will be fewer police officers in external service. It says there's gonna be more cops on the outside. Almost two years after the parliamentary decision, there have been fewer police officers in external service. It is a major failure of the national police leadership, and ultimately politically responsible is the Minister for the Interior and no one else. We from the Liberals are ready and, compared to our comrades, we welcome all efforts. We have the most ambitious grant in our budget within the Alliance of Swedish Police. There are 5 000 more security officers, and 1 000 more police officers than the government proposes. There are 1,100 more civilian employees in the police force than the government proposes. Today, we have also presented an extra 50 million in a special salary pool to stimulate police officers in external service. This has been called populist by Social Democratic ministers both in this debate and most recently in Question Time on Thursday. Is it populist to follow the Director of the National Police's forecasts and the basis for political decisions? Is it populistic to listen to the criticism that has been massive in the past year and six months from the police union, Linda Snecker, individual police officers and not least municipal political colleagues who discover how it has developed? I was in Surahammar yesterday. It is a small municipality in my constituency of Västmanland. There's a fine vow I made to the citizens. When I finished the conversation with traders and People's House employees, I made a cross above betrayed promises. You can't sit down from the municipality and the police and promise a lot of things like increased presence, more traffic controls aimed at tuned mopeds and so on, and so on, and so the community doesn't see a single policeman. It's our responsibility. How can we strengthen the conditions? How can we strengthen conditions? That is exactly what we are trying to do through political decisions. It may be in the budget, but it may also be screwing in the organization. I would like to take an example, because the Minister for the Interior mentioned it. It's the police dropout. I drew attention to this in a written question on 22 March this year. In the answer, the Government says, among other things, that if police employees choose to leave the agency because of frustration, it is of course regrettable. However, staff turnover among police officers is still low compared to the average for Swedish government. ..................................................... I do not think that the government then realized, and perhaps even today does not realize, how discontent is growing in the Swedish police. The government may have misjudged the situation and the situation and does not really realise how serious the crisis is. No, Linda Snecker, we don't engage in doomsday prophecies. You can then receive a copy of the decision of the national strategic management team on the seven actions that we are trying to process and respond in a serious and constructive way.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-89	Mr President, I would like to To say that Swedish police are in crisis is no exaggeration. We have taken in data and views, and we have also heard the stories that have so far been in the debate. I would like to add two more. I sat with a cop who had been on duty for over 20 years. He told me he'd been through a lot. But he had never experienced anything similar to what he now experienced at his job. He felt that he was tired and that the desire to continue working was basically missing. Even younger colleagues who had been on duty for four, five, six years that I have met in a coffee room in a police house around the country, who I have taken part in a radio car and who I have joined on the street, tell me: I am also thinking about doing what my former colleagues have done. They have chosen to quit even though they were burning for the police profession. But after just four, five, six years in the line of work, they haven't been able to take it anymore. This is a very serious development which we in the Swedish Parliament must take very seriously. At the same time as I say that, Mr President, I would like to thank all the police officers who make great efforts in Sweden every day and every night to preserve order, order and security. If we listen to the debate in this House, it seems that we all agree on the great importance of the police in maintaining order and security. It also seems that there is a consensus that the results of the police are far too bad. The clearance rate must be raised. Resources must go out to the local community. The police must be present throughout the country. If we are so united, why is this not a reality? If we agree, why does the government not face the challenges and concerns that exist? The government presented initiatives in its budget. But the significant parts, the major investments, are well ahead, only after the elections. Despite the strained situation here and now, the government has not realised how serious the situation is for the Swedish police. The government's support for the police is so small that it could be compared to a medic who puts a small patch on a large bleeding wound. It takes a crisis package for Swedish police. Already in the spring, the Christian Democrats announced a strong commitment to the police. We set aside about 4 billion in the coming years to strengthen the Swedish police and next year about 600 million. We do so because the challenges are not after the elections in a few years' time, but here and now. The Christian Democrats are proposing 2 600 new police officers spread over 2 000 more police officers with an emphasis on external service throughout the country, 100 more police officers in the national intervention concept to increase our counter-terrorism capabilities and 500 civilian employees to relieve and streamline police work at once. We are aware that training police officers takes time. That is why efforts are needed here and now on civilian workers who can go in and relieve police officers so that we can get more people into external service. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the police come when needed, have the ability to prosecute crimes and prosecute criminals is central to maintaining law and order in society. But a well-functioning police system means more than that. Responsibilities of society when victims of violent crime, robbery, sexual harassment or burglary in their homes are a prerequisite for redressing victims and for safeguarding citizens' trust in central social functions. Today we see that trust being threatened when people are subjected to crime. As an individual, you should always be able to trust that the police have the resources to do their job of preventing, preventing and prosecuting crimes. A judicial system that stands up for the most vulnerable is a prerequisite for a good society that holds together. Mr President, I would like to We have heard in the debate that the Alliance, the Christian Democrats and other parties are holding the police hostage. We have heard in the past that the Minister for Home Affairs has most recently rallied over proposals for more police officers. I do not know whether representatives of S and V are trying to make it appear to be a party-tactic issue. For me and for the Christian Democrats, it is about taking seriously the concerns that are growing when citizens notice the inability of the police. It's the girl who's worried about going to the festival, the entrepreneur who doesn't get his theft in the shop cleared up and the landlord in the countryside who's worried about breaking and entering when the nearest police car is miles away. For these people, more police officers are not a tactical issue in a political debate. It's a matter of security. They need more cops on their side to protect our common values. Mr President, I would like to For those police officers who face tough challenges in their work, the question is whether they will be able to keep working; it is not a question of political tactics. In addition to understaffing and tough working conditions, many new, difficult tasks have been assigned to the police over the past year and have contributed to a sense of inadequacy. More and more people are leaving the profession. We must take this very seriously, and that is why the Christian Democrats are proposing a strong commitment to more policemen, equivalent to 4 billion over the next few years and 600 million already next year. We must take seriously the challenges we see here and now, not then and not after the elections.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-102	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that no one in the opposition has been engaged in discussing the world changes that have taken place over the last two years. They thus turn a blind eye to much of what has been difficult for the individual policeman and for the police organization. The police have had to travel long distances to fights at asylum clinics, carry out border control, head out on Stockholm streets to protect our city and society against terrorists. If you do not do that analysis, you also risk breaking the rest – what needs to be corrected to get a better situation. I share much of the criticism that the opposition makes, but it would of course have been nice if the opposition had not pretended that all the problems arose at the turn of the government. Many of the shortcomings we see today are in fact the background to the fact that a united parliament made an organisational change. These are not problems caused by organisational change. I can also note that despite rhetorical pirouettes, creative calculation examples and a certain amount of creative accounting, we still agree in principle on what additions Swedish police will receive in the coming years. I welcome that. We need more cops, and they're supposed to be where they're needed at their best: in the most vulnerable areas. We have it in Södertälje, at Hisingen and in Botkyrka. But that's not enough. We need to see far greater improvements and far more police officers in the areas where they are most needed. I can guarantee that I will monitor this issue very closely and ensure that what has happened in Botkyrka, in Hisingen and in more places also happens in other socially vulnerable areas. The police have also chosen to give priority to 14 such areas of work. But we also need to streamline our activities. Police officers should not have to deal with fisheries issues, sell sheep or embark on long journeys for other authorities that do not need to be carried out by the police. We have also moved on to all these issues of reindeer farming in the budget. We also need to tighten up the legislation for those who attack police officers and other blue-light personnel. We simply need to have tougher penalties for those who do. It should be clear that it is harsh punishment for the one who attacks someone who is set to help others. We need better tools for the police and better regulation. There is also the proposal for a secret data reading so that the police follow the technological developments and we can use secret telephone tapping also for those who communicate via encrypted platforms. Today, we find it difficult to do that in the police. We need to improve the working environment and working conditions. That is why it is important that we not only have an auction on the number of policemen, but also a substantial amount of financial resources and let the Police Authority decide for ourselves where and how that money is best spent in the individual situation. We need emergency courts, the possibility of house arrest on weekends and, as I mentioned earlier, reindeer farming. We must continue to work to make it harder to be a criminal in Sweden.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-111	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for the Interior does not think that we are taking account of the changes in the world. It is, of course, a waste of time in this kind of debate, but with regard, for example, to the problem of fighting in refugee camps, it is above all a matter of concern in sparsely populated areas. The problem we see is that the allocation of resources does not take into account refugee camps and other things, which makes resources in sparsely populated areas even more cheap. The government could have taken an initiative here if it wanted to – that is a real problem. However, the refugee crisis and the challenges it poses to the police do not explain the lack of results we see in general. You can't blame it. True, many of the problems have existed in the past. As far as the vulnerable areas and, above all, serious organised crime are concerned, the Alliance Government has already launched its action against such crime in 2007. It was one of the prerequisites for dealing with some of the problems we saw and see in Södertälje. So, of course, the problems work over time. This debate should be about the situation of the police, and I think it is important that it should do so. It is not, of course, about the parties' own wish lists in general, as some seem to have understood. I note that the police have problems, and there are many things that do not work. Action is needed, not politicians who simply follow developments and have some kind of arms-in-cross mentality. Unfortunately, it is my criticism of the government: you are doing too little and taking too few initiatives. I expect the government, once Statskontoret has presented its report, to come back with concrete proposals on what to do to address obvious concerns regarding the reform. We will discuss the use of resources and the allocation of resources when we come to the budget debates. We think that your proposal is inadequate. We want to see more cops, at least 20,000 as a lower limit. We want more civilian employees. Then there is the need for initiatives in the area of mass crime. There is a culture in the police force today that aims to reduce the crime faced by citizens. That's why you don't care that someone is threatened with a gun at the cemetery in Malmö. That is why in some places nothing happens when you are abused. That's why we don't get burglaries cleared up. At the same time, we know that it is possible to clear up quite a few housing breaches if you use the right methods. It is about the activities that do not work in everyday life. It requires leadership and action, and we must make a strong effort. I believe that Anders Ygeman trusts the chief of police far too much – that he will be able to do this on his own. I am in favour of independent authorities; I think that is a good thing. But sometimes they have to have draft help and coaching from us politicians. We must point with all our hands and say: We expect you to care about everyday crimes. We expect you to run the DNA records that we have decided on in Parliament. We expect you to intervene against this and that kind of crime. Otherwise, the leadership does not get the support needed to get something to happen at the end of the line. I get mad when you don't take problems seriously when people finally come out in the gear that almost never seems to work in the police. I believe that we need to gather together into an action plan to increase the efficiency and speed of police activities so that our citizens in the big cities, suburbs and rural areas are more secure in their daily lives. There is so much to do, and then it does not help to just watch the business. Then I note that almost all the good proposals that Ygeman makes are those that the Alliance has developed and pursued, so we obviously agree on a lot. We will come back with more proposals.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-118	Mr President, I would like to In my first speech I said that all the other parties will walk forward here and beat themselves to the chest. Even that, then, I was able to predict. The Centre Party's Annie Lööf goes up and says For how long? Five minutes, right? In the last budget it was definitely not. And how much money did you give to the Police Authority in the 2014 budget, which was an alliance budget? It was 0 kroner that time too. What are you talking about when you say that you have long been demanding significant reinforcements of resources? You never have. You have not even done so now, because your draft budget has not yet been presented. Now you say you will, and that is the first time in a very long time. What you're saying is just waiting. As they say, empty barrels rattle the most. The Swedish democrats have consistently budgeted for strong resource reinforcements for the police, both general grants for improved working conditions and wage conditions and grants for 7 000 new police officers, which are required to keep pace with the large population growth that we have now had for a very long time due to your open-door policy. No one else has thought of the need to have some kind of measure to ensure that the police keep up with a population increase that we certainly did not need to have in this country. In my last speech, I said that I would go into other aspects than just the economic ones. One of the major problems with Swedish police today is the police leadership, with Dan Eliasson at the top. His first move as Chief of Police– he went out with it in DN Debate in February 2015– was not about fighting organised crime, making efforts in the particularly vulnerable areas, or fighting housing or mass crime. Instead, his focus was to fight hateful tone on the Internet. That was the focus of the new chief of police. Both during Bengt Svenson, during the time of the alliance government, and during Dan Eliasson, the police have continued with pure nonsense. You choose a defensive tactic against the multi-criminal gangs in our suburbs. You make a fool of yourself by offering the gang hot dogs or coffee and buns. It's like a satir magazine. You bend to media drive. For example, this was done with REVA. I've been talking to sources in the police who were working on monitoring Roma beggar gangs. They had to stop because the police chiefs were too scared for the media or for political correctness. So you don't do what the police do. We have a police chief, and police chiefs, who openly go out and say that they are covering up immigrant-related crime in order for a particular party – we, therefore – not to benefit, because we have been perceptive enough to see the problem long before others could. We have to have a police management that's made up of police officers, not politicians. It should be a leadership that does not bend to politically correct drives but has the hardness required in the new, exciting Sweden that you have created for us. It is a country that has become increasingly divided and violent. Some people talk about higher education as the recipe for making the police profession more attractive, but I think it will only exacerbate the situation in the police. We need people who want to and dare to be out and toil in this hard job. It will be much, much worse in Sweden before this is over. We don't need people in the police expecting anything else. Many in the police are testifying to this today. The development that we in Sweden are facing is serious. It's gonna get a lot worse, like I just said. Then we need good police management and a recruitment process that does not involve quotas for different groups that do not fit today.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-129	Mr President, I would like to As many say, we agree that Sweden needs a more effective police force – a police officer who is better at clearing up crimes, and this in a society where crime decreases but changes. More crime is taking place in the night. The company has become the new crowbar. Organised crime is a threat to society. But, Kent Ekeroth, it is also the hate crimes and threats against vulnerable groups, political representatives, journalists and others who work for democracy. It is important for the police to give priority to those crimes that risk fundamentally tearing up society. Hate crime is one of those categories. Annie Lööf of the Center Party said we have to break the division. That is an obvious priority. We need a good community that holds together, said one of her alliance colleagues. I share that ambition. But you know what? 2 000 more police officers will not change the fact that we have higher unemployment among those who are new in Sweden or that there are residential areas where students leave school with much worse results than in other areas. We need to invest in welfare. We need to focus on a broad approach to vulnerability in certain areas. The police are a very important part, and it is gratifying that the police have given priority to the work in the areas that are most vulnerable. But let's not pretend that's the solution to vulnerability. Let us not pretend that there are more police officers who will make the children of the suburbs feel confident in the future. We need a society that stands up for the opportunity of all people. We also need a police officer that everyone knows trust in – a police officer that reflects society. The figures in terms of gender equality and diversity in the police force are too bad. I welcome the work that has been initiated to recruit people for police training who have different backgrounds and different language skills. This is important for confidence, but it is of course also important for the police to know the languages actually spoken in Sweden today, not least among those people who have not yet had time to learn Swedish. Organised crime is another area where the government has made many targeted efforts during its term of office. We see that it is also an area in which democratic society is under threat. Here too, the whole of society needs to get involved. The police are incredibly important, but efforts at the Swedish Ecocrime Agency and collaboration between other authorities are at least as important if we are to have a society that is connected.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-136	Mr President, I would like to When I say that the Center Party spends another half a billion on the police next year and the government only 100 million says Anders Ygeman that we invest about the same amount. Then it's time to check the math again! The Swedish police need resources now. We need resources next year and not, as the government proposes, mainly after the next elections. When I visited Rissne outside Stockholm some time ago, I met police officers who every day see how violence takes over and insecurity spreads. They see criminal gangs raising children and young people to show disrespect for society and the police. This happens in vulnerable areas where residents no longer feel safe, where bluelight personnel are unable to do their job and where this has very clear consequences for the residents in the area. Insecure becomes a part of their everyday lives. Do they dare go out at night? Do they have the same opportunities to get help if they become acutely ill, if there is a fire or if they are victims of any crime? The presence of the police in these areas is absolutely crucial. Police must be able to build contact with residents and prevent attacks on fire and ambulance personnel. We also need to take responsibility for prevention. The Center Party has therefore put forward proposals on how to improve the prevention of crime in the particularly vulnerable areas around the country. We spend 400 million in particular on this in our budget motion, in addition to the 2.4 billion we spend on the open police. In Rissne and in many other residential areas police work is hindered by poor urban planning. The physical environment makes their work difficult. It is about, for example, how garages are built, how lighting is designed and whether there are bridges where stone stones can stand. In parts of the country where it takes a long time for the police to come, there is a growing risk that the inhabitants feel overlooked. For the victim, the crime is always serious. Not being seen and not being heard by the police when you are the victim of a crime is very serious. Whether living in one of the country's metropolitan areas or in rural areas, society's response to crime and insecurity must be equally clear. The security must be for everyone. In the end, our prerequisites for creating that security are about what resources we are prepared to provide Swedish police. And it is about the leadership that we have both for the police organization and for the rule of law in general. I am convinced that it is a new leadership that is needed. Mr President, I would like to I interpret today's debate as a great commitment to the police. But in the government there is a considerable difference between words and actions. My message is that it is time to see that it is serious, to step up efforts, to make efforts, to tighten up legislation, to take responsibility for the reorganisation of the police and to show the leadership required by the situation. We in the Center Party come up with proposals to respond to the problems we see, and we do so because it is absolutely necessary. Sweden needs a strong policy to break the division. It'll take more jobs. There is also a need for greater security. The rule of law must be strong throughout the country.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-145	Mr President, I would like to I have the funniest job in the world, but don't tell anyone. That's what a cop said to me, and that's what I think a lot of cops are experiencing: I have the most fun job in the world, but it's a little heavy right now. Being a police officer means having an enormous variety of jobs. It's risky. It's stimulating. Police work is a profession that engages society. We've seen it lately. There is an incredible public commitment to the situation of the police. It is probably for the police to come when we are most vulnerable and need them most. The debate today has felt a little like a mini-budget debate. Various parties can tell us how many millions and billions they have put in their budgets, which will still not go through. But it does not matter how upset we are in this House and how much we try to convince each other that the very party takes the situation of the police very seriously. We agree quite well that this is a serious situation. In fact, there is a lot to criticize the police for. It uses a change management theory that is customized, which is not suitable for the public administration. New public anagement and lean is something that we, together with the government, have decided to phase out of the Swedish authorities. This is counterproductive. It is an inefficient way of working. In the police, there is a culture of silence, and that is a very hierarchical situation. That's not good. And we are standing here today in a process of reorganization in which administrative policy co-operates with Parliament's decisions. The capacity of different ministers to act will be demonstrated in the public debate. It's bureaucracy. There are different types of organizational theories about how to manage and reorganise in the best way. And so there is a will to actually create an important and real change. No, this process with the police has not been entirely successful. But this has also shown the importance of a good working environment and the importance of having many and good colleagues. It is also about having a good salary and the feeling of being needed at your workplace every day. This has also demonstrated the importance of a great trade union commitment and many trade unionists to get pressure on issues of what is not working. But there is also a need for many courageous police officers who say: A more meaningful profession cannot be enjoyed.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-151	Mr President, I would like to I listened very carefully to the Minister for Home Affairs. Repeating and clarifying your messages is very effective, but it is not so powerful when you talk about everything but the police. I hear about on-call courts, more severe penalties and one and the other. But we're talking about the police. It doesn't matter what sharper penalties we shoot at from the hip here in Parliament if there is no one who can go out and intervene and arrest these people. I do not understand the logic of the debate of the Red-Green representatives, Mr President. Has migration, terrorist threats and everything else in the world affected the police or not? Some claim it has. Others claim that it has not. But if it has done so, as I do of course believe, but not fully, I wonder: Why is the government only allocating 75 million next year to the Police Authority? I do not want to say that there are more policemen, because it is up to the chief of police, apparently, to use the extra 75 million. It can then be compared to the Liberals' 780, almost 800, million to the police just next year. Yes, Linda Snecker of the Left Party, it's a budget debate. In your previous post and on Twitter, you attacked me: We will not engage in ministerial rule. Well, then, what is our role in this House? Yes, we decide on the police budget. It goes without saying that we must be able to express our opinion on the conditions and conditions of the budget. It is our way, our main way, to influence the conditions of the police. And we believe that we do so through economic decisions. Mr President, I would like to The Home Secretary said in his repeat number two that he wants to streamline the police's duties. I do not know how many times during this parliamentary year and during the previous parliamentary year I have asked written questions and also interpelled the Government about why in February 2015 he closed the Liberals' and Alliance's investigation, which was just about renouncing the police's duties. I didn't get an answer last time. Last spring I got something: This animal pickup thing and so on is going on. And handshake, let's look over. That's great. But I've asked the question one more time. I am not satisfied with that answer, Mr President. I would like to know what it is like, now that I have the chance in this House. Minister for the Interior! Why did you close the investigation in February 2015, barely six months after your admission? Now that you've been in your post for a year and a half, almost two years, you think this is one of the most important things we can do. Yes, I'd like to hear from you today. As far as the affected areas are concerned, I must draw attention to something in this debate. Södertälje has been mentioned. Botkyrka has been mentioned-- I don't know how many times. But the police who have been assigned to Botkyrka are chess pieces. The police have been used as a chess game. They are police officers who have been taken from other areas and who have been sent to Botkyrka. But we need more policemen also in Surahammar and in Bäckby – it is a district in Västerås that has gone from not being exposed to being exposed. Minister for the Interior! This has nothing to do with migration or terrorist threats. This has been neglected year after year, regardless of what political colour it has been in the municipal management. It's time to deliver and to bet on real.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-159	Mr President, I would like to I heard the Minister of the Interior say that there is creative accounting going on or whether there was a bill in the debate. Then I'm thinking a little bit about how the government itself counts. In the initiative for next year, SEK 75 million will be allocated to the police, and SEK 25 million will be directed at stopping the fraud in the haulage industry. But when we had a budget debate in this House, and also in the News, if I remember correctly, the Minister of Finance said that the police get what they have asked for. I also hear that we bet about the same amount. I assume, and I hope that the Minister for the Interior will be able to answer this, that he believes that we can use the savings in next year and thus even out the sums. But if budget savings are to be used to increase the levels of police operations, the risk is that we will be here in 2018 and the police will have to make savings. If the funding savings are money that can be used a little how you want and there will not be more than 280 million SEK in the Government's 2018 budget, I wonder: Who is it that engages in creative counting and accounting here? We have a strong focus on more police officers and on civilian employees who can go in and relieve the police quickly, because we see great needs. Every day the police in Sweden look very different in different parts of the country. In some places the police meet at calls of stone-throwing youth gangs. Cars have been set on fire and store windows have been broken. This is stressful even for the most experienced police officer. However, those living in these areas are most severely affected when the police, ambulances and fire brigades are unable to carry out their proper missions. I am Erik of the story of the police, Mr President. In an effort in Gottsunda, Uppsala, he tells about black smoke columns from burning cars in UNT. The city buses turned around, and those who travelled by bus from town had to get off and walk through Gottsunda to get home. Erik writes:.It didn't feel good, that on the old lady's question about how she would limp to the other side of Gottsunda answer, I don't know. ..................................................... This is totally unacceptable. Investments are needed here – not through creative bills and long-term investments, but here and now. This is extremely important in order to create close and trusted contacts between the police and the public so that you can work preventively but also to have the resources to counteract the kind of situations that Erik tells you about in his letter. Police work must be organised in such a way that the availability of police officers is greatest in the places and at the times when crime is at its most widespread. The police leadership has received strong criticism, Mr President, and it must be taken seriously. The government must take greater responsibility by tackling the basic problems. There must be more police to deal with the problems. Only then can the new organization provide the efficiency improvements that will give us more police officers in external service. Mr President, I would like to Despite the considerable challenges facing the police, public confidence remains high. But trust and trust cannot in any way be taken for granted. We see signs that trust is being reduced or threatened, which is why we now urgently need to invest in the police. It is an important reform to invest in. A crisis package is needed as part of strengthening trust in our social institutions, because trust in society's institutions takes a long time to build up but can quickly be destroyed. That is not enough, Mr President, with patches on large wounds.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-166	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the opposition for a mostly constructive tone in this debate. I can only note that we essentially agree on the analysis and on the measures that need to be taken. I think it is an important message to the police out there that there is a broad political will to provide new resources and that there is a broad political will to improve the working conditions and working environment of the police. I think that is welcome. If it is the case that some of the wise proposals made by the government emanate from one of the bourgeois parties, I have only one thing to say: Thank you! I promise that I will not judge a proposal on the basis of who makes it, but on the basis of whether it is good or bad. I believe that this is an insight that would help the political debate in many other areas as well. Unlike Kent Ekeroth, I am not going to take part in the ridicule of those police officers who are trying to mobilize the local community against crime gangs and gangs. They're making an important contribution. When it comes to the discussion on the addition of resources, the bourgeois representatives make it a little easy. They forget that we have turned the trend from 10 000 asylum seekers a week in December last year to 400 – 500 asylum seekers a week this year. They forget that we have significant spending savings that the police will be able to use in next year, which means that the sums there will be quite similar. They forget that the government has already contributed $250 million to the police this year. They also forget that it takes two and a half years to train a police officer and that we very much agree on the long-term development of resources for the police. It is a certainty for all the 8 000 people who have joined the police profession now that there is political agreement that they and their forces are needed for a safer Sweden.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-171	Mr President, I would like to We sat on the bench and just said that it is really a little strange that you go with surplus in the police when the situation looks like it does. It is remarkable that you have not managed to spend several hundred million crowns when we so often get the answer that you do not have the resources to pull out or to do things that need to be handled. It's also a bit of a sub-grade to the organization and says something about it not working. I think it is about culture, it is about resources and it is about leadership. It is a question of actually doing what is needed here and now. The police are at the service of the citizens. I would like to see more of the service spirit that is necessary so that you don't listen to someone who calls and reports, but is actually on your toes and makes that best effort and has the ability to praise the police who do that little extra that is often the difference and that makes you solve a crime. If you look at the results of the investigation, you can see that they are the ones who make it a little extra, who really do their job and take it seriously, who get results. The others get mediocre results. There's something you need to do here. It's interesting to hear from the Home Secretary. He's grateful for the Alliance's suggestions. There will be more, and it is great that they are welcome, but my question is: What will the Minister do himself? What initiatives will the government take to make changes? I understand that the Minister for Home Affairs does not have much help from friends in the government, because if one claims that it is more important to invest in welfare reform rather than police, nothing has been understood. If we do not have police officers in place who can give people living in vulnerable areas peace and quiet, who can ensure that ambulances and emergency services arrive, then no welfare efforts matter at all. You have to do both. It is about here and now, and it is about long-term efforts. If you don't understand this, you can't deal with these problems, so it's clear that the Home Secretary has a little uphill at home. As I said, the Alliance is coming back, and we Moderates are going to produce a good draft budget.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-179	Mr President, I would like to It sounds to the alliance parties as if everything is the government's fault, and although it may be tempting to join that choir, it is not true. The government has done some good things since they came to power – things that the Alliance government refused to do despite pressure from the Swedish Democrats for several years. The law on terrorist travel is one such example, where although the alliance government was very pleased with the rules, it was first with the new government that we got an improvement, even if there are holes in that legislation. The rules on confiscation only recently improved. Not least, it is about border controls, where the Alliance instead went to elections at the invitation: Open your hearts! So you can't blame everything on the government. Unfortunately, the Alliance has a heavy responsibility for the situation facing the Swedish police today. The Swedish Democrats want to do two things in particular to improve the situation for the police. I have dealt with them in my speech. The first point concerns the substantial reinforcement of resources to the judiciary which far exceeds the proposals for reinforcements put forward by both the alliance parties and the government. Every year in our budget, we have given the police what they have insisted on and further efforts, including more police officers and better conditions and pay, to attract enough police officers to the effort we want to make. The second point is the question of police management. It should be a police leader who is not bound by political correctness and who dares to do his job. The solution should not be, as the Green Party says, quotas and special treatment to bring different ethnic groups or other groups into the police. We want the best man, or woman for that matter, in place no matter what. It's got to be guidance for a cop. Otherwise, we will end up in a situation where it will be very difficult to reverse the ship.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-185	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Swedish Democrats do not think diversity and gender equality is important is not news. Nor is it news that the Moderates do not feel that a strong welfare is important. But you know what? Society is also the police's workplace – their working environment. Crime is affected by the society we choose to build. Eight years of cuts in welfare have consequences. Now the unemployment figures are turning around. Youth unemployment is lower than ever, and crime is falling. There are still major challenges, and that is why the government's major welfare efforts are taking place. This is part of the reality that we create for Sweden's police officers, among other things. Yes, there is a need for additional resources in the police, but since the government chooses welfare initiatives over tax cuts, we can afford both.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-188	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for today's debate. It's been important. Security must be protected throughout the country, whether you live in the countryside, in the big city or in one of the outlying areas. Ensuring people's security is one of the most important tasks of the state. Security is about knowing that police one is there when you need it. If you are exposed to a crime, there must be support from the judicial system. Clear legislation should help the police in their work, and there must be resources to deploy when insecurity spreads. Swedish police are in crisis. We can't turn a blind eye to that. We must face up to the problems with open eyes and with action. We can't sedentaryly watch more and more cops resign. We cannot turn a blind eye to violence and unrest. Mr President, I would like to I hope that everyone who has followed the debate has got a picture of what the Swedish police need and what security requires. I hope that those who have listened feel that a clear leadership of police and justice society is what Sweden needs. I hope that it has become clear that efforts at the police are needed now and not then. I hope it is clear that the Center Party will continue its work on security. I am sure that the debate will continue, and I assume that the government will assume its responsibilities. With investments in more jobs, preventive work and increased security, the challenges can be met. The increased division can be broken with clear reforms. Sweden should not continue to be divided. Security must not become a luxury for a few or a distant utopia. To show leadership for police opportunities, and to prevent and combat crime, is to invest in security for all. Thank you for today's debate.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-193	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, everyone, for today's debate. Roger Haddad of the Liberals has twice stood and shouted my name from the pulpit. He has almost demanded a ministerial rule by the police. I think it's a little exciting. He wants so much influence on a minister that it is approaching ministerial rule. This is something that an opposition to the government tends to blame the government for and not demand. It is also something that regulates the form of government in cap. 11 and 12. This shows the inability of the L iberals to actually trust the police, not to trust the skills and abilities of the police professionals. This also indicates that we should not use the police as a political bat. We must have confidence and trust that our government officials in Sweden know what they are doing. We, as politicians, should be able to provide resources and support. We will never turn a blind eye to the many challenges our authorities and the police face. Nor should we miss the fact that the police have introduced many new ways of working. There are citizens' promises and cooperation agreements with the municipalities. We have not debated them today. The police are in a reorganization. It'll take time. It hurts! It's hard when things change. We take all these issues very seriously. I would like to thank the Police Association for the great and solid work you have done, and I would like to thank all the police officers who every day go to work with pride. You're doing an incredibly important job!
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-199	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank the Center Party, which initiated this important debate. However, it is with great disappointment that I will be leaving the House in a moment without new and concrete answers. Both the Green Party and the Left Party have listed a great many good initiatives, but they cost money. That's only 75 million out of 100 million next year. You have not allocated any more, and we must be able to point it out whether you want to talk about it or not. This is an important part of our parliamentary management. Then I turn to what the Minister of the Interior has said. Although the proportion of criminal investigations reported to prosecutors is decreasing, the amount of criminal clearances in exclusion areas is at the lowest level since 1999, it will thus not be more than 75 million to the police next year. It's irresponsible. I have really tried, the Minister for the Interior, to listen to concrete proposals where we can agree. But if I say the Liberals want 1,000 more police officers than the government, then we disagree. If we want another 50 million in a salary pool, then we don't agree. If we want another 1 100 civilian employees, then we don't agree. I wish we could agree. I have spoken to many police officers, and so have my colleagues, and not least the Minister for the Interior, who is working on these issues. Many of the issues we Liberals have raised are those that policemen have told us. It's not a nicked-up at the Liberal Party Office on the 9th floor. These are their stories, and this is a way for our party to show that we are taking these issues seriously. It has been a good debate. However, speaking of Linda Snecker's comment on the issue of ministerial government, the Liberals' proposal to call the Minister for the Interior and the Head of the National Police to the Justice Committee in October to discuss the issues has been approved by the committee.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-205	Mr President, I would like to The more people say something in Parliament's chambers, the more we agree. It is not that something that is said and said means that we get along. It is about the content of the policy, of the proposals and of our budgetary options. Anyone who has followed the debate has seen that we do not really agree. The Christian Democrats think that efforts are needed here and now, and the government's efforts on the police will only come in a few years, after the elections. Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman says, Mr President, that we forget about spending. But that is what I was trying to ask you in my speech. If you take off the savings next year, there is no money in the government's budget for the following year. This will mean that the police will have to make cuts. This is not the long-term approach that is needed for the police officers I have talked to, who say that they do not know if they can do it anymore, who have been on duty for four or six years and may still be on the starting salary. They experience great frustration in their work and do not get the long-term signal that is so important to give: that we invest in the police, in more police, and take the challenges, problems and concerns that are very seriously. We forget that it takes two and a half years to train new police officers, it is said here. We do not do that at all; I have said this in this House that it does. We therefore need to invest in more civilian workers early in order to relieve the police and get trained police officers into external service. The Christian Democrats have previously proposed a series of other measures to be able to quickly relieve police activity and bring more into external service. We don't agree on how much money we want to spend on the police. There I call for better leadership and greater clarity in order to give the police the long-term rules of the game that are needed. Thank you for this debate. Thank you to those of you who participated and thank you, the Center Party, who initiated it!
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-210	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that it is getting messy for those who listen to the debate. Fortunately, however, all the draft budgets are on the Internet, so you can compare them yourself. We agree on the long-term development of the Swedish police and on the distribution of funds needed to hire more police officers. We have a little different numbers in year one, and we count a little differently on the budget savings; that is quite right. However, some of you have said several times that action is needed here and now. Well, we shot at 250 million already in our budget, last spring. In that sense, it is probably here and now a little late, but welcome into the debate! We need more resources. We need better regulation. We need faster and smarter prosecution. We need this in order to facilitate the work of the police. Today, far too much of the police's work is spent on regular customers and on things that do not have to be done by the police. By freeing up that time, we are getting more police here and now to make people's lives safer. I would also humbly point out that this government has submitted 63 proposals from the Ministry of Justice to the Riksdag since we took office. Many of them help to simplify and improve work and tighten up legislation. Finally, I would like to thank the Center Party and the rest of the opposition for the initiative for this debate. I think it has largely been good. Like Annie Lööf, I am convinced that the discussion will continue. But I am also convinced that we will jointly ensure that what was the common approach in the reorganisation, more police officers closer to the citizens, will also become a reality and become a reality in the socially vulnerable areas first.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-218	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund has asked me how I intend to act to ensure police presence and people's safety and security in Jämtland County. The conversion of the police into an authority is extensive and complex and involves large internal relocations of both personnel and activities. In particular, the reorganisation involves the concentration of certain activities in fewer places, which is a necessary rationalisation that is intended to benefit citizens. In order to enable the Swedish Police Authority to recruit both police officers and civilian employees, the Government has proposed in the 2017 budget proposal that the agency be added more than SEK 2 billion during the period 2017 – 2020. The government also proposes that the police be relieved of tasks transferred to other authorities. However, it is the responsibility of the Political Authority to assess what measures need to be taken to carry out the tasks of the Agency and to decide on the resources of the different regions and police areas. Statskontoret has also been given the government's mission to follow up on the reorganisation of the police. An initial interim report of the assignment shall be submitted by 1 October 2016. I am following closely the work to ensure that the intentions of the reform are fulfilled.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-223	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of the Interior, for your answer. However, those waiting for clarity in the response will have to keep waiting. We hear about more money – in itself, money that the chief of police has already committed to civilian employees and that comes mostly after the elections – but nothing about leadership and control in the police organisation. This is an important and urgent interpellation debate. Many times we discuss the urban conditions and the police chaos there. All too rarely do we discuss and debate the conditions in rural areas – of course my interpellation is here and now. The recognition factor I think will be great also in the other counties of Norrland in addition to Jämtland County, which I will focus most on. At the end of May this year, the LKC was closed down. Emergency police calls from the county are now linked instead to Umeå, where the efforts are directed from the new Regional Management Centre. The move was met early with sharp criticism from the employees, who highlighted the danger of the loss of local knowledge. No one listened. We have in Östersund a unique organization, the so-called House of Security. These include emergency services, prison services, county administrative board, region, police authority, SOS Alarm, Swedish church, Tullverket and the prosecutor's office. The authorities' decision-makers met daily, and the coordination was excellent – quick decisions were made. We have had an enormous number of study visits to this unit, and it has always been seen as effective and as a major role model for the rest of the country. That was also why I invited Dan Eliasson to Östersund – to show LKC but also show the police organization in our county. Dan Eliasson said it was quiet in Jämtland on alarm. Something he didn't consider were the great distances in the county. Let me remind you that Jämtland County is the third largest county to surface throughout Sweden. With the new centralisation, the police wanted to achieve more effective governance and management, eventually increasing the number of police officers in the local police areas and more. Today we have the findings regarding the new organisation and the move of LKC to Umeå. The media report last week about stressed employees – 30 percent of them have already stopped. You sit with 150 hours of overtime. This violates both the Work Environment Act and the Working Time Act. You don't have enough staff. These are reports from the staff themselves. You don't have any elaborate routines. At night there are six operators but only two or three police patrols in charge – listen and be amazed! – 52% of the country's surface area. Technology that does not work is also reported. In the past, it was possible to switch on the hotline to quickly reach other units, such as social services and ambulances. Today, you're sitting on covers. So progress has been reversed. These are extremely tough conditions for the staff. I actually suffer with them. I'd like to ask the government a question. When you hear my description, how does the Government comment on the rule of law in our county, and what measures do they intend to take?
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-231	Mr President, I would like to The police are in a very strained situation. This applies to Jämtland and several other parts of the country. The advantage for Jämtland is that it has lower crime than the average for the country, which is gratifying. However, we will contribute over SEK 2 billion to the police in the forthcoming budget. We sent SEK 250 million to the police this spring. We are making a significant clean-up of police activities and a significant addition of civilian workers to free up more police officers in external service right now. When it comes to how the police organize their work, it is the police themselves who should decide it. It's me, Saila Quicklund and a united parliament agreed on. It was also a united parliament, including Saila Quicklund and her party, that was behind the new reorganisation, the regional division and thus also the efficiency of the LKC being merged into the RKC. In this respect, I and the interpellant have no other opinion. We also agree that we need to do more to improve the working environment and working conditions of the police. That's why we're shooting at over SEK 2 billion, by the way quite exactly the same amount that the Moderates are sending to the Swedish police.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-234	Mr President, I would like to Let us remind ourselves that the EUR 2 billion are, to a large extent, already committed by the chief of police to civilian staff, as I said earlier, and that most of the money comes after the elections. I also asked about specific conditions for Jämtland County but have not received an answer to that. I will now describe events directly from the reality of my county. Rickard Svedjesten is chairman of the Swedish Arctic Rescue Association, and he is extremely critical of the new organisation. He is of course referring to the regional management centre in Umeå, which is now also leading the mountain rescue. He describes a man who was 60 years old and broke his leg on the mountain. In the past there has been no problem getting ambulance support in such a serious injury. But now RLC refused in Umeå helicopter, and this meant that the mountain rescuer had to carry the man – with the pain that we know it is – several kilometers to the nearest road. The mountain rescue has been waiting for a coordinator for over a year. I now know that it is underway and that there is a coordinator coming. But it's about a year, and we're still talking about life and death for a lot of people in this region. In the 90s Strömsund had 17 police services, which can be considered to be entirely relevant with the large distances that exist up there. This summer we could see that there was a single police patrol on an area from Arvidsjaur to Östersund, which is 450 km. In the media we also see interviews where restaurant owners or other entrepreneurs in the county's outskirts say that they no longer call the police. They've tried many times, but there's no point. Then there will also be misleading statistics when one says that there is a low frequency of the crimes. The worst scenario was quite recent. An armed man in Strömsund municipality fired a shot at a minor girl. It is of course a priority 1 case, but I note that no police patrol could be sent out. Police statements have also been misplaced. The Krokom police were directed to Örnsköldsvik when they went to Östersund. That's 200 miles wrong. When they broke into Frösön, they ended up in Sundsvall. It is 19 mil wrong – 400 mil return. I meet many insecure people, especially those who live alone. Many times it is women, widows, who live in their properties far out in the countryside. They put it this way: we pay taxes like everyone else. Then there are also expectations of a well-functioning legal society. I really agree with that. Strömsund Municipality, led by Göran Bergström, has in various ways coordinated and acted to highlight the shortcomings of the police organisation. These are letters, courtesies and meetings. I also know that other municipal councillors from the county and from Västerbotten have also written a joint article describing the unsustainable situation. In Jämtland County, which covers 12 per cent of the country's surface area, there may at certain times be no police presence in significant parts of the county. This also applies to Västerbotten, Norrbotten and so on. My question is: How does the Minister for the Interior view the non-functioning management and governance and the poor working environment within the police organisation at the Regional Management Centre in Umeå, which is a major basis for these problems?
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-247	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I have to ask where Saila Quicklund gets the claim that the resources would be committed. What is she basing that claim on? Saila Quicklund further confuses police services and police. The big problem in Strömsund and some other municipalities nearby is that it has been difficult to recruit police officers there. It has nothing to do with reorganisation. It has nothing to do with leadership and control. We need to get better at recruiting police officers locally and providing them with local services. It must simply become more attractive to be a police officer in rural areas in Sweden. We will ensure this by giving local police areas greater influence over recruitment, but also by making it easier for those who have a background in these parts of the country to also receive services there. I think that's the right medicine for the future. The example of gunfire raised by Saila Quicklund is under investigation. I have noted that the police have already said that it was wrong and that it had nothing to do with a lack of resources, reorganisation or regional management centre. I meet on Monday Mayor Göran in Strömsund and 15 other local politicians. I hope that we will have a constructive exchange of views on what we can do together to increase security and police presence in Jämtland's and Västerbotten's counties. Much of the problems that Saila Quicklund addresses relate to recruitment in sparsely populated areas. Unfortunately, nothing is unique to Strömsund, nor is it something that has come new in recent years. For a long number of years with the alliance government, it has been a problem. We will, of course, address this problem, and we will of course ensure that we have increased opportunities to recruit good police officers even to Strömsund.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-254	Mr President, I would like to Regarding recruitment problems, Länsförsäkringar applied for an investigator, and reportedly 50 police officers applied for that position. Many of those seeking out from the police profession report the abuses that exist as a cause. It is important to consider. The inhabitants of Jämtland County therefore do not know whether or when a police officer will come to the rescue. This also applies to priority 1 cases. We have had examples of that. Even if this is under investigation, it has happened. Nevertheless, we must note that the security of society stands and falls with a functioning police organisation. Some say that otherwise there is a risk of taking the law into your own hands. We Moderates want all of Sweden to live. Then security issues are also extremely central to domestic skills provision and migration. The security aspect is very important. It is important that Sweden's inland, sparsely populated and rural areas are valued as highly as the city and coast. I have provided a description of a very strained and unacceptable situation in Jämtland County. I hope and assume that the Minister for the Interior will act forcefully without referring to ongoing reports, investigations and so on, where it is a very long-term prospect. Action is needed here and now. These expectations exist. I will of course continue to monitor the progress of the work, and of course I have a constant dialogue with those who live in the county but also with the police who work in the business. Finally, I would like to thank you for an important debate.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-260	Madam President, I would like I would have liked Saila Quicklund to have given a more consistent and reasonable description of the hard work done by many of the good police officers in Jämtland and Jämtland's interior – the pressures that the police have been subjected to in the form of increased terrorist threats, a record-breaking asylum reception and the first border control since 1994 – and that she does not use a strained summer situation as a starting point for creating and spreading insecurity throughout the county. We provide large resources to Swedish police – over 2 billion over the next few years. We are already adding SEK 250 million to our budget, which allows us to hire more civilian workers and release more police officers. These are good and important efforts, but they do not solve the recruitment problem in sparsely populated areas for Swedish police. We must work there with a better and more flexible recruitment method than the police have so far managed. In this way we can continue to develop Swedish police and make it safer even for those living in sparsely populated areas and in the interior of Norrland.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-262	Madam President, I would like Linda Snecker has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that those working in the judiciary can be safe at their workplace. She has also asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the exercise of public authority is not affected by threats and harassment to the public. Personnel working in the public sector and exercising public authority may run the risk of being exposed to threats or harassment. This is particularly true in the judiciary. In a recent report, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, Brå, notes that the experience of unauthorised influence against government personnel has increased over time. At the same time, Brå notes that the safety work within the relevant authorities has been developed, which may have meant a lower tolerance and an increased awareness of the impact experiments of the authorities' staff. Although Brå notes that harassment and pressure do not have a significant impact on the performance of his duties, this has all the greater consequences for the health and privacy of the individual. Job security needs to be taken very seriously. It is primarily the authorities themselves who are responsible for the working environment and safety of their staff in the framework of delegated employer responsibility. For example, both the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Police Authority have premises, meeting rooms and working methods designed to minimise the risk of unwanted confrontation. All new courts have limited staff spaces, security control possibilities have been gradually developed and the courts have hired more security guards and installed more alarm frames. The need for higher security has long been a priority in the planning of the courts' premises, and the training offered to judges in matters of security and order has been expanded. However, the government takes serious account of all kinds of threats and violence, whether it is against government personnel, against other groups in the public sector or against individuals. The Government has, among other things, set up an investigation that has been commissioned to investigate how the conditions for order and security in the courts can be improved. The government has also announced a review of the penalties for attacks on bluelight personnel and other socially beneficial functions to further protect them in their work.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-266	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Ygeman for his reply. I was going to start by focusing on the employees of the judiciary. My first post-university job was as a court secretary at a district court. I sued, and I appointed a public defender. I copied papers and wrote draft judgments. I signed up for a security case. Talked to a frightened plaintiff. I called RACs and served with defendants. This was, of course, a very exciting job, and I, as a member of the Committee on Justice, am very grateful to have this experience. That is why I have the greatest understanding of the concerns expressed by many of the members of Jusek in the study that Jusek has carried out among its members on threats, violence and harassment at the workplace. I've been there myself. I was also involved in trade unions, and that is why I am particularly pleased that Mrs Jusek is highlighting this issue and putting pressure on issues relating to health and safety at work in the judiciary. Every sixth person working in the judiciary feels insecure at work. The proportion of employees in the judiciary who have been subjected to threats or violence varies, of course, depending on which authority they work at. At Kronofogdemyndigheten, 66 per cent have been victims of violence or threats. With the police, it's pretty much less than 19 percent. Most incidents occur during working hours and by telephone or other personal contacts. We want an open judicial system, and we want a judicial system with which it is easy to get in touch. At the same time, it is precisely contacts with the public, which are often upset, angry or frustrated, that the judiciary deals with every day. Of course things happen. Unfortunately, the number of police reports made by judicial officials has decreased over the years. In the last year, only 14% were reported to the police, and one in four threats were reported to the police. The reduction has therefore taken place. In contrast, damage is reported more – as much as 55 per cent in 2013. That is why it is so important that we talk about the importance of police reporting threats and hatreds that have occurred during working hours. Of course, it is difficult to draw the line when it comes to what has been a threat or not and what happened. But there must be a limit to how much a government official should have to take in his professional role. It is basically about what kind of judicial system we want and what work environment should exist.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-275	Madam President, I would like As I was aware of my answer to the interpellier's questions, it is primarily a question for the respective authority to have a consistently high level of security work, to have good support for the staff who are affected by this type of event and to have a good safety management. I'm not sure you should see the proportion of police reports as a good or bad sign. Of course, we want as many as possible of those who face this kind of threat to report to the police. It may even be that there is a certain amount of sub-notification when it comes to police reports. It is not certain that even for that group it is a sign that it is such a much better working environment. Of course, we must also ensure that the respective authorities have sufficient financial resources to do good security work. That is why we have added more money, for example, to the police and the Security Service, and also to other authorities, so that they can live up to the responsibilities that lie with them under the law. I also hope that the investigation we announced on the security and security work of the courts will lead to concrete improvements. We have also presented some legislation that will enter into force at the end of the six-month period and will lead to more secure court proceedings. This includes the possibility of wearing certain symbols and clothing in courts, where you may use your violent capital to influence the members of the court. I think we need to keep a close eye on this issue. I believe that we must be present in the work of the authorities to ensure that they live up to what we and the law demand of them.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-279	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Ygeman! I agree with a lot of what you're saying. I want to focus a little more on the state as an employer. The Jusek study I mentioned earlier shows that only 43% of employers have taken action over the last two years. In 2013, the figure was 50 per cent, so it has fallen. The authority that has taken the least action is the bailiff, i.e. the authority where most employees have been exposed to threats, hatred or harassment. This is very serious, because it can create a culture that threats are not so serious and that we should not take it so seriously. This is where employer responsibility comes in. We in this House and you from the government must press for the responsibility of state employers. Confidence in the judiciary has increased recently – people trust their authorities – and therefore the authorities also have to deliver to their employees. Unfortunately, that is not the situation today. Many authorities are in archaic premises. In courts, for example, there is sometimes a lack of individual exits for prosecutors and individual call rooms for defenders. The number of employees who feel that nowadays they receive the same support as before from their employer when something happens has decreased, and unfortunately fewer measures are taken. The objective, which I believe we agree on, is that government agencies should be an attractive workplace. Then we must also be on our toes and point out when things do not work. The state profession must be developed, and there we have the union as a very good tool. I can sometimes worry that the trade union mission and commitment can sometimes lead to reprimands and other measures, such as no wage increase, within the state authority. Here, too, we must see how we can avoid the state work being placed in the same position as some private companies today, namely that trade union involvement and union are seen as the enemy. It is important that the state is a good employer – an employer who puts the rule of law first and the exercise of authority first. It is a prerequisite for staff to be safe, competent and independent. It can only be if the situation in the workplace is safe and stable. I agree with what Mr Jusek says about no one having to feel anxious and insecure at work. I would therefore like to ask a few questions, Mr Ygeman. You've reported some things, but how does the government think about it as an employer? How can we work out that the state becomes an even better employer with a secure staff?
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-285	Madam President, I would like The state as an employer and the government's employer responsibility are mainly questions that lie under Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi and that he must answer. But in general, of course, I share Linda Snecker's view that the state should be a good employer and that employees in the government sector are perhaps the most valuable asset, just as in the private sector. It is important to have developed cooperation with the trade unions, not only for active security work but also for the development of our own operations. Few things are so important for the business as having dedicated employees involved in the development of their own workplace. Linda Snecker also asks questions about the bailiff and the seemingly decreasing numbers there. The bailiff still has a well-developed security work. They have access systems to their premises, where visitors come from the reception and the employee from the shell cover. Visitors' rooms and receptions are equipped with alarms, and an electronic incident reporting system is in place within the agency so that even incidents that may not be sufficient for police reporting can be captured in the work environment. All enforcement inspectors undergo special security training so that they know how to deal with these issues, and the training has been revised in recent years. So my picture is that there is still a thorough security work on the bailiff. This can certainly be developed, and I know that a review is currently being carried out at headquarters, which is due to be completed on 1 October. Of course, there may be more suggestions for changes and improvements in that work.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-289	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Ygeman! I'm very happy about the commitment to this issue. These are issues where it takes a long time to change, and it is stubbornness and urgent work that makes us move forward. I think a lot of things can get better. I believe that we have come further in some authorities than in others; you reported the work of the bailiff, and that sounds very good given the vulnerable situation that exists within the agency's operations. I will follow this issue with great interest, and I think you are doing exactly the same. I would like to thank you very much for the debate.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-291	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellant for a good debate. I can assure her that we will continue to work on this issue in the future.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-292	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether I am going to take any action on the grounds that new judgments suggest that modular housing cannot be raised with temporary building permits. Soil should be used for what it is most suitable for. The municipal plan monopoly means that it is the municipality that, within the framework of the planning process for review and detailed planning, determines what the land is most suitable for. The planning process ensures that different public and individual interests are taken care of and balanced against each other and is also important from a democratic perspective. In order to meet urgent needs and maintain effective social development, some valves are needed in the system. This is the possibility of allowing derogations from certain requirements for a limited period of time under fixed-term building permits. However, it is important that such a valve cannot be used systematically to circumvent the planning process. However, I agree with the interpellier's view that it should be easier to build mobile dwellings on the basis of fixed-term building permits. One problem with the current regulation and practice in this area is that anyone seeking a fixed-term building permit to build a building for residential purposes must demonstrate that the need for the measure is temporary. This means that the lack of housing in many of the municipalities of the country itself constitutes an obstacle to building housing with the support of limited-term permits. The Government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats have agreed in the so-called Migration Agreement that temporary reliefs in planning and building regulation should be implemented and that a review should be carried out, in order to simplify requirements for buildings constructed or occupied with fixed-term building permits. Within the Government Office, work is under way to review the regulation of fixed-term building permits for residential buildings, in order to facilitate their establishment.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-297	Madam President, I would like As everyone knows, it is a major problem that Sweden has been confronted with a very large reception of asylum. As the many people who came above all in 2015 – but also before – have had their asylum cases handled, they will then be placed in the municipality. This placement should be done in an equal way, distributed across all municipalities in the country. This is something we agree on across the block after a deal last autumn. Here, however, we end up in something of a moment 22. The government has said that it prefers municipalities with a functioning labour market to have a particularly large reception. The problem is that those municipalities have the biggest housing shortage. In Stockholm Municipality – or in Stockholm County – it is in principle the case that none other than newborns or new arrivals move in. Stockholm has a rather worrying demographic development, in which, despite a good labour market, we cannot provide housing for those who want to move here. It is particularly tricky if municipalities are also to take responsibility for arranging housing for about a hundred new arrivals. In my own municipality of residence in the Stockholm area, to solve the housing shortage for newly arrived residents, the municipality would have to go in and devour almost all available housing – simply buy all the apartments and villas in the municipality. This is not a viable solution. What needs to be done is that we can quickly build so-called modular housing. In fact, no one wants to do this, but it is something we have to do as we see fit. The problem is that we have now begun to see signs that the municipalities will not be able to do this, because permanent housing cannot be established on temporary land. The municipality of Gothenburg has built 300 student apartments, and now this building has become a court case where you risk having to demolish these 300 apartments. This is a catastrophic situation for everyone involved. I think the answer from Peter Eriksson is fundamentally positive: the government is aware of the problem and wants to work on solving it. Nevertheless, I would like to stress two things in particular. Firstly, I think it is important to separate what we agreed on in the migration settlement and the problem I describe. What we agreed in the migration agreement was that the Migration Agency would receive exceptions from the PBL – the Planning and Construction Act – to establish its accommodations. When municipalities then arrange accommodation for municipal asylum seekers, they have a completely different problem. I think it is important for the government to be aware of this problem. My first question is whether the Minister is aware that there is a difference here, because when the municipalities are in contact with the public administration, they are constantly told that PBL has been simplified. But that is not exactly the problem I am raising now. Secondly, I would like to say that it is positive that the government is on the ball, but now we have to act quickly. It is about getting this in place in the coming year.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Schulte! At least I agree in part with the problem picture. I would not say that temporary buildings and housing are the great solution, but the main solution is still to build new permanent dwellings. The good thing about today's situation is that we are actually doing this. The municipalities, which have housing responsibility, are currently building much more than they did just a few years ago. In practice, we have doubled the construction of permanent housing in recent years. We are already on a level with regard to the pace of construction that we have not seen in Sweden for several decades. Despite the problems that exist in the residential building process – with detailed plans, outline plans, building permits and many other difficulties, for example, that in many cases it takes too long – I still feel quite confident that many of the problems can be solved. The municipalities that build much have shown that there are ways to deal with this. There are also those who have been less successful in their planning, both here in Stockholm and elsewhere. There are municipalities that are not used to building and that have not done so to a great extent for a very long time. For them it takes longer to convert to build. But we looking back at the statistics see that we have underestimated the issue of new construction over 20 years. For 20 years we have built considerably less than we should have done, and that means that now we have a big and acute problem ahead of us. I would not say that it is only immigration that has led us to have an acute problem, but the main reason is actually that we have built far too little for a long time. But now, as I said, we're building more. I also believe that part of the solution lies in making greater use of the existing housing stock in the event of an acute housing shortage, such as today – that people rent out part of their housing to a greater extent. Of course, temporary housing is also part of the solution when municipalities have major problems dealing with this. That is also why I am concerned about the judgments that have been handed down. Regulation has not been good – the practice that has been developed is at least not compatible with the situation. At this point, when we see an acute need for housing that is also long-term, it is worrying to be able to demonstrate that the need for housing is also temporary. My intention is to simplify these issues with a new regulation so that this can be dealt with smoothly and quickly in the municipalities and to get new legislation in place as soon as possible.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-315	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Eriksson, for your answer! In essence, we are probably quite in agreement as to what the problem is and also – at least in relation to this – what the solution is. I would just like to add that although more is being built now, which is very positive, it cannot be said that the solution lies in increasing general construction. We have a catastrophic emergency situation in the Stockholm area in particular. It is particularly in the Stockholm area that they have historically been good at building, and they are now building even more than they used to. But because it is so popular to move to Stockholm, there is enormous pressure on the housing market. This means that those who are the best in the class now may have the absolute toughest time to deliver housing in a short time. Then we must be sure to deal with the temporary solution. I see the problem – it should not be the case that temporary housing is used as a way of solving the long-term problem. It is therefore urgent to find a solution to this in the near future. I have just one final question for the Minister: when can we expect a change of regulation to be in place? We should have needed it yesterday!
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-320	Madam President, I would like I agree that we would have needed it yesterday, but now we had another regulation yesterday. It meant that this problem arose through decisions in our courts. It was only after that situation arose that it was obvious to most people that a change in regulation was needed, and it happened only a few months ago. We are actively working towards a new regulation. I hope and believe that this will happen quite quickly. I also believe that only the signal that we are developing a new regulation will be important for the municipalities, even if the implementation takes place a few months later.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-322	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me if I intend to take any action in view of the fact that tenant-owner associations can still stop subletting after a number of years of rental. As mentioned by Fredrik Schulte, for too many years Sweden has had a shortage of housing, and existing housing has not been used optimally either. However, several measures have been implemented in recent years to make it easier for individuals to rent out their homes. The current rule on subleasing permissions came about after the previous government's proposal for amendments to the Right-of-occupancy Act was not supported by the Riksdag. Not least, the resistance from the right-of-occupancy sector was very high. The proposal was then reworked in close contact with the right-of-occupancy organisations to achieve an appropriate balance between the individual right-holder's need to rent out his or her dwelling and the interest of the right-of-occupancy association and other members in the property being inhabited by those who have a long-term need for the dwelling. The law assumes that the view of the right-holder's reasons for second-hand leasing should be generous. At the same time, according to the bill, the reasons for second-hand leasing are assumed to weigh more easily over time. In this part too, the rules are based on a balance between different interests. Before the summer, an initiative containing 22 steps for more housing was announced, one of which is about facilitating private rental. Making better use of existing housing and creating incentives for more people to want to rent out their home, or part of a dwelling, in a second place under secure conditions is therefore something that the government is working on and intends to return to.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-327	Madam President, I would like My brother has been living abroad for a couple of years. He rented out his apartment for almost three years. He would very much like to continue renting it out, but he does not get that for the tenant-owners' association. This is an apartment in Stockholm, so it is an apartment that would not be difficult to rent out. I can say that if I had got a crown for every time I got a question from friends or acquaintances who know that my little brother's apartment is empty, I could have invited Peter Eriksson for beer after the interpellation debate. I think this is basically something that no one thinks is positive, except perhaps my brother's right-of-occupancy association for some strange reason. I understand the answer from Peter Eriksson in a positive way, that he sees the problem. In short, I take it that we can expect shortly to see a bill that will change this.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-329	Madam President, I would like Perhaps Fredrik Schulte should not be absolutely sure that there will be a change in this particular law. It's quite recently changed, which I was into. We are generally looking at the issue of taking a number of measures to facilitate private rental. However, the issue of the right-of-occupancy associations and permission to sublet tenant-ownership rights is so recently dealt with in a new legislation, so I think it is less likely that we are making a change to it right now. On the other hand, there are a number of other measures aimed at strengthening the position of both the lessor of a dwelling and the subletter of a dwelling or the lessor of a part of a dwelling. In this area, we are now looking at a range of options, including deposit fees, brokering secondary contracts, renting part of a dwelling and partial contracts. There are a number of questions that we might consider reviewing, including housing allowance, which today cannot be obtained if, for example, you rent part of an apartment. I believe and hope that we will be able to make changes. But I am not sure that it will be taking further steps to weaken the position of the housing associations.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-333	Madam President, I would like I think that Peter Eriksson has the same problem as I often have, namely that it is difficult to admit that time is fast. In fact, it was quite a long time ago that we decided on this bill from the previous government – in 2011, and in 2012 it entered into force – which involved the liberalisation of the secondary market. It has basically been very successful and resulted in tens of thousands of new homes, at least in the Stockholm region where the pressure has been strongest. I don't really understand the argument here. Just because something is new, although I question whether it is particularly new, does not mean that it is not possible to continue to operate in the system to get more housing. I find it difficult to understand the logic of a housing association not to say no to renting out my apartment, which I have to do without having significant reasons, but that after three years the housing association suddenly has to say no. As a result, my potential tenant will be homeless and will have to find accommodation elsewhere. Now that we have an emergency situation in the housing market, it would be an easy way to change this with a club team here in Parliament, and the legislative proposals have been drawn up since before, as the Minister was concerned. Then we could find another thousand homes here in the Stockholm region. I think the Minister should come up with a slightly better argument that we should not do that.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-337	Madam President, I would like The government's proposal was not implemented, but changed to partially satisfy the requirements of the housing associations. The argument was that if several apartments in a small right-of-occupancy association are subleased, it becomes much more difficult to run and manage it, and it becomes more difficult to get board members who work actively. It is assumed that the right-holders, the owners of the apartments, will be part of the administration, management and management of the right-of-occupancy association. This is the background. For example, if you study elsewhere for a certain period of time, that is a reason for renting out. But once you've finished your studies, it could take a few years, the reason weighs less. The same is true if you work elsewhere, that the longer the time passes, the less the reason for continued subletting. That is what the reasoning has been.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-339	Madam President, I would like I understand the objection that in a small housing association it can be tricky to care for it if many rent out. The problem is that this law applies regardless of whether there are many or few apartments in a right-of-occupancy association and whether there are many who have rented out in the association or not. The law expires after three years. The first three years are the possibilities of renting out generously, but then they are not. This is difficult to justify. The Minister describes that it would be tricky for the association to administer this. However, the new law has opened up the possibility of a renter paying a money to the association, and it could be looked at to increase if there are associations that are particularly affected. Basically, it is difficult to justify the existence of this regulation. For me, it feels like it came into being so that Housing Rights Association Sweden would get a soft start and be able to prepare for a more generous secondary rental regime. Now this has been in place for a while, and I think the Minister should take the initiative to improve it and in that way probably create access to thousands of apartments only through a club team. It would also mean that people would be prepared to invest in the housing sector and thus create more housing even in the long term.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-345	Madam President, I would like I will conclude by thanking Fredrik Schulte for the proposal. I'll have to look at this in the future. But right now there is nothing going on about changes to the law.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-346	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether I intend to take any action in relation to what he is saying about SCB's housing statistics. The SCB is responsible for the development, production and dissemination of official and other government statistics and for coordinating the system of official statistics. Part of it concerns the construction of new dwellings. The statistics are presented at municipal level with variables on type of building, type of apartment and type of tenure. Reporting to SCB is done via questionnaires to municipalities, and there is a lag in this reporting. In order to provide an up-to-date indication of the development of residential building, SCB reports quarterly preliminary statistics based on incomplete data. Annually, however, complete and more detailed information is presented. Fredrik Schulte points out that the statistics do not show separately the dwellings built for use for a limited period of time. The government does not control SCB's work with official statistics at that level of detail. Official statistics shall be of good quality and shall be characterised by, inter alia, relevance and timeliness. The statistical authority is responsible for ensuring that the statistics meet the quality requirements. According to SCB, it is recognised that, in some cases, housing is provided on the basis of fixed-term building permits. However, the data are not included among those collected. Fredrik Schulte describes in his interpellation the fact that very many homes are now being built quickly and in places where they will not remain long-term as a problem. My view is the opposite. It is important that municipalities, in cooperation with different developers, quickly create opportunities for the many newcomers to get a home. It is a prerequisite for them to be able to establish themselves with studies and work. I would like to remind you that, less than a year ago, the government and the bourgeois parties in the Riksdag agreed to simplify the requirements for buildings constructed or used with fixed-term building permits, precisely in order to make it easier for municipalities in this respect. In conclusion, I am pleased that a great deal is being built historically in Sweden. I intend to return to the Riksdag with proposals that will make it easier for municipalities to create temporary solutions to the current acute housing problems while continuing the long-term work to establish housing construction at a high level.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-355	Madam President, I would like I share the Minister's view that it is positive that it is being built very historically. However, I am concerned that these figures are being taken a little too seriously – or, rather, that these figures are on steroids. As the answer suggests, many municipalities have an emergency housing situation, and just as we discussed in a debate 15 minutes ago, they are being built temporarily to cope with the reception of new arrivals. If you penetrate these figures you would see that they go on steroids, for a large part refers to temporary housing. I have no factual basis for this, because there is no factual evidence available. I have put the question to Parliament's investigative service, and it has been stated that no figures can be found on this. It is a good thing that temporary housing is being built, which we debated 15 minutes ago and agree that it must be built to deal with the emergency situation. However, the danger is that municipalities are putting so much effort and tribulation into coping with the temporary situation that they will lag behind with the long-term housing supply planning. I was with the municipal councillor in my municipality a few months ago when he took the first shovel in a construction project. He then stated that it was eight years ago that the city council began to discuss building on this site. So it took eight years from the start of the idea until the shovel was put in the ground. It was certainly a rather large housing project, but it is not a time span that is unusual for major construction projects. Unfortunately, it is rather the norm because Sweden has a complicated and cumbersome planning and construction law. If the municipalities begin to deal with the acute problem, it may mean that long-term housing planning is affected, that is, what we will see in the statistics in eight years' time or perhaps in six years' time, because we have simplified the rules a little. My concern is that we see these figures, beat ourselves to the chest and say, ‘Look how good we are,' but do not see that this is the result of many years of planning work by the municipalities and that we are now in danger of causing the temporary problem in a long-term perspective. I have no solution to present, but I want to flag the problem. We must take this seriously and note that the figures for the increase in housing construction may in part be a little inflated. However, there is no talk about the fact that overall construction has increased, and that is a positive thing.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-364	Madam President, I would like As far as statistics are concerned, Fredrik Schulte has a point. There are shortcomings in the statistics. We do not have a really good, fast and clear reporting of housing statistics. But after talking to quite a lot of people in this sector, both at the authorities and in the construction phase, I feel confident that the temporary homes that exist, especially in some of our major cities, form a small part of the total construction of housing in Sweden today. I don't think it's going to make a huge difference in the future when you look back at the statistics. Next year, when we get more precise figures on this year's construction, we will see that there are some, but it is definitely a smaller part of the total construction. The time-limited solutions are needed, but they are not the ones that determine whether we can deal with these issues overall or not. I think it's about other things. Apart from the fact that construction itself is increasing, there are positive trends in times; building permits and detailed planning processes are speeding up today. This is linked to what I was discussing in a previous interpellation debate, namely that more and more municipalities are learning to handle this better. New knowledge is gained, and there are some municipalities that have been faster, better and smarter than others when it comes to using the regulatory system. Växjö, with a green blue government, is such a municipality. Those who have been good spread the knowledge to other municipalities, and you learn to handle it more quickly. Today, there are many examples that it may take only a year from the start of a process until you can put the shovel in the ground. I think you should be happy about that. At the same time, we know that there is a much greater commitment in the municipalities to build more today. The government is clear that it needs to be built. We are making demands on the municipalities, and we will also make clearer demands on the county boards to be involved in the process of prioritising housing supply. We also provide support to municipalities that assume their responsibilities in this area, for example through the municipal bonus that we have introduced and that will benefit the municipalities that carry out the housing investments and constructions that we think are necessary.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-371	Madam President, I would like I don't really have much more to add than that it would be good if the department itself did a survey or instructs SCB to do a survey that distinguishes between the temporary and the regular housing building. It is important that we have a clear statistical basis to base our decisions on changing housing policy. Thank you for three good debates. So far, I think these are positive signals, but now it is up to the Minister to deliver. Otherwise, there will be tougher tones in the debate ahead, at the end of the parliamentary term.
i-f3c407a7f476cf9f-373	Madam President, I would like I must also thank you and say that I absolutely should not risk taking tougher debates with Fredrik Schulte. These are nice debates we have had now. I hope that we can continue to do so, so there will be measures.
