i-1461f1e488147b05-0	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me how I view the loss of confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen and what measures I think need to be taken to reverse developments. Boriana Åberg has asked me how my confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen's ability to fulfil its mission is affected based on the results of the Swedish Enterprise Survey and what concrete measures I intend to take to improve Arbetsförmedlingen's ability to fulfil its mission. I reply to the interpellations in a context. It is worrying that fewer and fewer members of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise respond that they use Arbetsförmedlingen as a recruitment path. It is also worrying that such a large proportion of those in this survey who have used the services of the Employment Service are not satisfied. The Employment Service's own employer survey shows that about 90 per cent of employers are satisfied, but it also shows that just over one in three employers believes that the agency has contributed to a faster and better recruitment process. The fact that there is dissatisfaction with the Employment Service among employers is not a new problem, and there are no quick solutions. Within the agency, extensive development work is ongoing, including an investment in more and better contacts with employers. Surveys of the Swedish Employment Service and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise show that there is still much to do. In 2015, the Public Employment Service has added more special intermediaries working outreach with small and medium-sized enterprises to provide advice and support on recruitment. It is an approach that started in the Job Seekers project, which was a collaboration between Företagarna and Arbetsförmedlingen. The agency is now participating in more networks and increasing its collaboration with various business organisations. Arbetsförmedlingen also collaborates more structuredly with large groups in order to take advantage of newly arrived skills. In January, an employment office in Solna was opened for employers only. It should of course be easy to get in touch with employment intermediaries, and employers should get professional help. In order for employers to be able to find the right skills to recruit, it is also important that Arbetsförmedlingen provides the right support to those seeking work so that they can be matched with the available jobs. It is therefore not only the efforts targeted specifically at employers that affect how satisfied they end up without the whole of labour market policy activity. The government continuously works with various initiatives to improve matching. Strong labour market developments are particularly important now when many employers want to employ.
i-1461f1e488147b05-7	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the answer to my interpellation. It has been a while since I wrote this interpellation, but the question is as topical today as when it was written. The job issue is one of the issues that we think are the most important to deal with, and the government has said that the job issue is important to them as well. The question I asked about confidence in the Public Employment Service is that we see that confidence is very low and that it also falls. Fewer and fewer employers choose to use Arbetsförmedlingen in their recruitment, and there are huge amounts of money that we spend on Arbetsförmedlingen's activities every year. The confidence figures are, of course, based on the expectations and perceptions of respondents to the agency, i.e. employers who can hire and who can use the Public Employment Service. The Alliance government set up an investigation that would carry out an in-depth review of Arbetsförmedlingen's activities and look at the activities and how they could be improved. It's a matter of doing the right things and dealing with things that don't work. That investigation closed the current government almost immediately when it took office. I find it difficult to see why the government should be so negative about investigating and developing good evidence for change and improvement. The views of the Moderates and the Alliance are clear. We want a review that should go through the organisation and governance of the whole agency, but also labour market policy efforts. Contacts with employers would also be analysed, as good employer contacts are a prerequisite for managing and improving matching. The study should also look at how other actors can help people get into work. In addition to this, of course, more efforts are needed. The most important thing is that there is a policy that is job-friendly and where more jobs are created. We will certainly come back to this in later debates on unemployment targets and the like. It is also important that there are proposals that lower thresholds and make it easier to enter the labour market, not least for those who stand further away from it. With regard to wage support and other measures, there is a great deal to be done to simplify and improve, because there is today a plethora of both intervention and wage support that is easily becoming difficult to understand. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour repeatedly pointed out in the election movement that reforming the Employment Service would be one of the first steps in government. Instead, they chose almost immediately to stop the review that was going on, fire the responsible investigator, phase out the investigation and set up a government analysis via Statskontoret – a completely different assignment that is carried out regularly on our agencies. In addition, the assignment to Statskontoret only included internal management and governance. If the government had not chosen to suspend the investigation that was going on, we would have had a comprehensive basis in January this year to build a new employment agency and thus improve confidence. Can the Minister and the Government really afford to throw such evidence in the trash when we see the developments that we are seeing today?
i-1461f1e488147b05-18	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The reason I wrote this interpellation was a survey that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise conducts every two years and is about the recruitment of new employees. This year the survey showed the bottom results. Fourteen years ago, 64 per cent of enterprises turned to the Employment Service, compared with the current 45 per cent, which is also the lowest entry ever. In addition, one in five companies reported that they were very dissatisfied with the functioning of the Employment Service. These are very alarming facts. Given the large number of job seekers, it is extremely important that entrepreneurs who want to employ are given the best possible service. As the name indicates, the job agency's task is to provide jobs. We are in a boom, and the need for rapid and successful recruitment processes is great. The Minister's reply does not show whether her confidence in the Public Employment Service's ability to fulfil her mission has been affected. Does the Minister still have confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen? The Minister considers the results of the survey to be worrying, which, in my view, is a mild description of the problem. The fact that more than half of employers opt out of the Employment Service when recruiting is disastrous and requires immediate action and not just the finding that employers' dissatisfaction is not a new problem. It would be easier if the Public Employment Service itself had a disease perspective. One seems to be missing. In an interview in Svenska Dagbladet, the Regional Director of Southern Sweden, who also has a special responsibility for contacts with employers, questions the results of the survey. He believes that those who are very dissatisfied should make even greater use of the services provided by the Employment Service. I hope the Minister understands that such statements do not strengthen companies' confidence in the Employment Service. The failure of employment services must also be seen in the light of the enormous challenges posed by asylum immigration. Foreign born are now in the majority at Arbetsförmedlingen, and then the large group of asylum seekers who came last year is not included. 100,000 newcomers are going to the labour market. How are we supposed to do that when we have a job agency that doesn't work? The Government's goal is for all newcomers to have jobs within two years and for Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020.
i-1461f1e488147b05-28	Madam President, I would like Let me first stress that I take this issue very seriously. It is extremely important for employers to be given relevant assistance to obtain staff for the job vacancies also through the Employment Service. I am not satisfied with the results so far. Immediately after we took office, the work at Arbetsförmedlingen was transferred to work with employers. From the end of 2014, employers' work began to be prioritised. It has built up and developed a specialist role in its staff, which specifically works to serve employers. A special unit has been set up to play this role, and several are planned to be set up. The frequency of companies in their registers has been increased. There can be a marked increase in the time spent by employment intermediaries in employer contacts. In particular, it has developed its work to meet the recruitment needs of larger groups in a number of regional locations. Much is happening in terms of improving and investing in employers' contacts and meeting employers' needs. Madam President, I would like However, I am aware that only the results count. It must therefore lead to better results and satisfaction on the part of employers and that the matching works to enable us to see that the measures taken really deliver the desired results. Measures have thus been taken, and the work has been substantially changed within the Public Employment Service. But it is, as I said, the results that count. I would also like to answer Boriana Åberg: Yes, I have confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen. But I take the problems very seriously and am very aware that Arbetsförmedlingen is an authority that still does not show the results that we should be able to expect.
i-1461f1e488147b05-34	Madam President, I would like It is great that the Minister takes this issue very seriously and that they are trying to improve the Employment Service. Of course, it is necessary to improve and expand employer contacts. Why this has not happened in the past to a sufficient extent can be considered. I believe that we have a common ambition to ensure that these contacts increase. In order to fundamentally reform an authority that enjoys one of the lowest trusts of our authorities and, furthermore, when it is such a large and extensive authority, it is important to investigate and go through from the ground up so that you have the facts on these issues. You can do things in the meantime. You don't have to wait for the investigation's answer forever without doing anything in the meantime. But if there is an investigation at the same time and you get informed, facts-based and well-examined answers in such an investigation, you have a good basis for your decision-making. I still do not understand what made the government decide to close the investigation, to fire the investigator and to complete the investigation while, on two occasions, the Riksdag announced to the government, by a majority in the Riksdag, that the investigation should be resumed. Nevertheless, it has not resumed. This is serious for Arbetsförmedlingen and its future. It is also serious when it comes to the relationship between parliament and government. We are in the Chamber of Sweden's highest decision-making bodies, and it is clear that it is important that there is a fundamental and thorough investigation of the Swedish Public Employment Service in order to strengthen and improve it, to increase confidence in it, to ensure that employers who need staff can get it through the Public Employment Service and, most importantly, that those who do not have a job get a job to go to. Here, the Employment Service, together with other actors, should be a main player to ensure that this happens.
i-1461f1e488147b05-39	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for all the examples of improvements in Arbetsförmedlingen's relations with companies that she listed. Quite rightly, it is the results that count, and hopefully these new measures can result in new contacts. But how can you reach those employers who have already lost faith in Arbetsförmedlingen? There are many who testify that their needs have not been taken seriously and that the involvement of the Employment Service has caused extra work when job seekers without training and qualifications have sent applications only to meet the requirement for a certain number of jobs applied for. I will quote an entrepreneur who has not been involved in the increase but shares the conclusions there. He says, "My confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen ended finally and completely after a failed recruitment of 20 people. Since then, I have never turned to them as an employer and would never even consider the idea. My view has been strengthened by the views shared by other acquaintances. Several pictures of how bad it works, or rather not working at all. Total inability to deliver a single name that is useful. The Arbetsförmedlingen cannot match requirements profiles against the applicant at all. ..................................................... Another entrepreneur says, "Recruiting is very difficult. And you feel like an employer lost, abandoned and lonely. Despite my extensive network of contacts, the habit of government contacts and so on, I didn't really know what to do when it was again up to date. What I knew I wouldn't do was contact the employment office. ..................................................... That sounds awful. It sounds like these entrepreneurs, who are only two in number, have really lost faith that the Employment Service, whose job is to provide jobs, is working satisfactorily. I suppose that kind of story is nothing new to the Minister. When the Social Democrats were in opposition, the Minister felt that the Swedish labour market was working worse and worse. The Minister felt that the Arbetsförmedlingen could not carry out its mission and was unable to communicate and match to the extent required. At that time, the Minister responded that it was the government's rule-making that was counterproductive. Whose fault is it now, Minister, when it is your government that sets the rules?
i-1461f1e488147b05-47	Madam President, I would like I would like to reiterate that I take the issue of the employers' work of the Employment Service very seriously. Of course, it is not true that the Employment Service cannot meet employers' needs at all. Many employers are satisfied with Arbetsförmedlingen's work. This applies, for example, to the job-seeking project, which was started together with entrepreneurs. It has been a very successful project, which is now implemented in the ordinary business. This applies to many of the employers I meet now when I go on tour. The Chambers of Commerce around the country have jointly initiated the Welcome Talent project to enable us to receive new arrivals. There, many employers testify to a very good collaboration with Arbetsförmedlingen and good results. But that is not enough. We also need to improve results in general. There must be more employers who are satisfied with the work of Arbetsförmedlingen. To Christian Holm Barenfeld, I would like to say that a decision on an inquiry into the role of the Public Employment Service will be taken before the summer. Boriana Åberg raised the issue of employers' dissatisfaction with the fact that many unemployed people submit applications for jobs that they have no chance of getting because they have to do so. It was something that applied under the old government, but we no longer have that kind of governance. It has eased the pressure on employers that they do not have to accept many pointless applications in order to comply with the rules of the Employment Service rather than actually seeking a job. I would like to say to Boriana Åberg that it is of course my responsibility. I am the Minister for Labour, and I am responsible for how it works at Arbetsförmedlingen and for ensuring that we can change what does not work. There is a lot to do when it comes to Arbetsförmedlingen. As soon as we took office, we started work to change the direction. Now they would start recruiting people who had the skills to work with employer issues, something that they had not had before. As I explained in my previous reply, many jobs have been set in motion. The policy has been changed, but we are still waiting for sufficiently clear results.
i-1461f1e488147b05-54	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Labour! It is important to point out that there are many good examples. There are companies that are satisfied with Arbetsförmedlingen in their locality. Not least, there are many employers around the country who are both competent and do a fantastic job. However, even the best employees may not be able to deliver their full potential or do the job they would like and need to do if the organization does not work and the tools do not exist. Therefore, once again, it is important to review how the work works. Under the alliance government, we made major changes in the field of employment services, but even if we had continued to rule, I think we would have had to continue to investigate. We set up an investigation precisely because we wanted it to be strengthened, improved and made more effective. It's great if the government sets up an investigation before the summer. However, if the ongoing investigation had not been interrupted, it would already have had the basis from the previous investigation, which was set up, to start working from six months before starting the investigation. This means that time has been lost – several years – when it comes to ensuring that Arbetsförmedlingen is strengthened and its trust increases. It's connected to the fact that they actually work and deliver. What has happened is that we have lost one, two or two and a half years of valuable time when it comes to the employment agency being able to get better. I think that is a pity and a serious matter, not least for all those who are not in the labour market today.
i-1461f1e488147b05-58	Madam President, I would like I would like to point out that my criticism is not directed at individual employers. It is the organisation that I have views on. The same applies to the entrepreneurs quoted. I think the problems are a little bigger than just how the Arbetsförmedlingen responds to potential employers. The government lacks awareness that it is the companies that create jobs, not the Employment Service and especially the politicians. With its other policies, the government has really turned its back on businesses. The proposal on co-financing in health insurance, the deterioration in RUT and ROT, the increase in taxes on labour – the list can be long. All these are policies that do not lead to new jobs. The government should stop looking at companies as a milk cow and realise that companies are the horse that pulls the cart and that entrepreneurs create welfare. There is an alternative to this policy, namely the Moderates' proposal on education and training requirements, more pathways to new jobs, such as first job employment, which means learning the job at work, and of course reducing taxes on low incomes and more RUT jobs. If there are more jobs and you have enough tax money, you can also afford to invest in Arbetsförmedlingen, which will convey these jobs to everyone who needs them.
i-1461f1e488147b05-63	Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I have repeatedly stressed how serious I am about the problems and shortcomings that exist within the Employment Service, but I would like to stress that the organisation of the Employment Service is working better and better. Statskontoret's search shows that the agency is on the right track and has prioritised the right issues. Arbetsförmedlingen's work with employer contacts and matching has been prioritised, and the agency has changed its way of working. Specific priorities are set by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), where many of the new jobs are created, but special efforts are also being made towards large groups with their specific needs. We shall take the problems seriously, but we shall also see that much is being done. As I see it, we are doing what is necessary to get on the right track, but more remains to be done before we have results there. Finally, Madam President, Boriana Åberg says that the government is putting away the bones of the companies. It is a bit difficult to find the right place for this when we have a development with record growth and more vacancies in Sweden than ever. It's a little hard to put it together with the picture that you put away the legs of the companies.
i-1461f1e488147b05-67	Madam President, I would like Mr Bali has asked me how many trainee jobs I will have during my term of office for new arrivals. As Mr Bali points out, there are only a few hundred trainee jobs at present. Trainee jobs involve a combination of work and regular education. Several parties are involved in this effort, and the number of trainee jobs therefore depends on the active action of these parties. Trainee jobs must be allowed to develop continuously in order to ensure good quality in both employment and education. At the same time, there is a clear need to secure generational change in a wide range of industries. In order to ensure the need for skills in generational change, the Government has assessed that the target group for trainee jobs needs to be expanded to include the long-term unemployed and newcomers. The possibility of supplementing primary or secondary education with more vocational education, which meets the requirements of employers, can facilitate the entry of these groups into the labour market. It is also important to remember that trainee jobs are one of many efforts to shorten the time from new arrivals to work. In the 2016 budget proposal, the Government has proposed a number of initiatives that will lead to faster entry into the labour market, including strengthened labour market-oriented efforts, validation and a substantial increase in the compensation to municipalities for the reception of new arrivals. The Government has also made efforts to increase the number of training places and measures aimed at improving the quality of adult education. The government's discussions with the social partners, the Employment Service and other relevant authorities have led to the introduction of a number of so-called "fast track" into the labour market, including for chefs, butchers/cutters, health professions and teachers and preschool teachers. The government has also taken the initiative for the so-called 100-club, which is an initiative in which industry and government agencies offer jobs and internships for new arrivals. The Public Employment Service has a central role to play in achieving the Government's objective of faster entry of newcomers into the labour market. The Authority shall have well-structured employer contacts and provide professional support to employers who recruit. All jobseekers, regardless of their professional background and level of education, must be supported and guided in an active job seeker. Arbetsförmedlingen is in an extensive renewal work where the employer's work is in focus.
i-1461f1e488147b05-73	Madam President, I would like Trainee jobs became known in the election campaign. Then the Minister for Labour had no problem at all to put figures on them. It is precisely in election movements that it is very nice to put figures on their ambitions. Nevertheless, the Minister for Labour fails to give a figure in response to my simple question: How many trainee jobs for new arrivals is the government planning? Not anywhere in the answer is a single figure given as to how many people you plan. It is noted that there are only a hundred now. I suppose it's a reasonable write-down of the thousands of trainee jobs promised by the government. I guess you'll just have to thank him for the answer. And then you'll have to try the example one more time. We are giving the Social Democratic Minister for Labour a chance to put a figure on how many new arrivals will be covered by the trainee jobs.
i-1461f1e488147b05-75	Madam President, I would like Labour market policy efforts are not an end in themselves but are intended for people to get to work and for employers to get the right skills. We are in the middle of a great change of generation in the labour market. A significant part of the matching problems we have today is that people leave the labour market and retire in occupations where for many years we have not had sufficient volumes of training for new ones to those professions where there is a high demand. In the light of this, the government has proposed trainee jobs, which are precisely an answer to this. But that's not the only answer. There are also other ways of coping with generational change and ensuring that you get the right skills. My mission is not linked to how many people are in every labour market policy measure. My mission is linked to managing unemployment, matching and growth in the labour market. We have to use the instruments needed to get there. A government and not least an opposition party must, of course, finance their proposals. Then you calculate how much resources are needed to make it clear that you have set aside the money required in your budget. But I have made it clear in the management of Arbetsförmedlingen that we are flexible. If some measures do not work as well as they should, we must change them or redirect them towards other measures that work better. That is how labour market policy should be governed, I think. That's what we're doing with the trainee jobs now, for example. They were developed in a situation where we had very high youth unemployment. Youth unemployment is now falling very rapidly, and then we are making changes to open up to other groups and make some different demands on those who may be eligible for this type of support. There are also other efforts that are needed for us to be able to cope with the supply of skills. Yesterday I visited IFI in Stockholm, where people with an educational background corresponding to six to nine years of primary school combine SFI with vocational education. I was extremely impressed by both the good results and the great determination of the students. They get a completely different motivation when it is linked to vocational training, and you expect to be able to shorten the training period by several years, while at the same time you can bring nurses, cooks and construction workers to the labour market in Stockholm, which has a great demand for this. These are things that I am happy to support. We need to be flexible and find ways to combine education and work in order to meet the skills needs and to ensure that the unemployed get to work.
i-1461f1e488147b05-82	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this numberless exercise again! My question was how many trainee jobs the government planned. But even between the thumb and the index finger, the Minister for Labour is not able to deliver a single figure. However, she manages to draw up a lot of other interesting examples. I do not question whether they are interesting or not, but now I asked this interpellation in the Swedish Parliament precisely to get an answer to a particular question – to which I am not able to get an answer. As a matter of principle, however, the government has no problem promising a certain number of labour market interventions. The Social Democratic party leader Stefan Löfven promised 5 000 standby jobs on May 1st. There were no problems in setting figures for labour market policy interventions. But when I ask a straight question about how many new arrivals are to be covered by the trainee jobs, I do not get an answer. Then the Minister for Labour's explanation doesn't go together. It is claimed that it does not want to work according to numbers of labour market interventions, but at the same time the Prime Minister himself has no problem with standing on May 1st and promising thousands here and thousands there. Somewhere the government gets to decide-- do you put numbers or not on their efforts? And why in some cases but not in others? Here the trainee jobs will be very interesting. It was promised tens of thousands of trainee jobs, and it was a few hundred. Can we expect similar results with standby and trainee jobs for new arrivals too, namely that the thousands of jobs promised will be around a hundred in the end? Then you can ask what effect it will have on the Swedish labour market if a few hundred are to be given input, when we have a problem where about 50 000 of the unemployed have only primary education or lower education. Then you can ask yourself how great the effect is. The hundred who get that bet I really can afford this. But somewhere we must suffer with the tens of thousands who do not.
i-1461f1e488147b05-88	Madam President, I would like I'd like to fill in a little bit about what my colleague Hanif was talking about. The Minister said that the number of unemployed young people is falling, and that is correct. That's good, and we're all happy about that. We have a good business cycle, and we had an alliance government that focused on jobs. But now I'm sure there'll be someone cliching back that it was the fault of the previous government, because it usually does. If you are going to dig into this and see what the figures look like: The number of long-term unemployed young people enrolled in the Employment Service has increased since Ylva Johansson took up his ministry post. Trainee jobs are not least intended for those who are farthest from the labour market. The 32,000 trainee jobs one was Stefan Lövven's and Ylva Johansson's most important election question, to make sure to deliver the 32,000 jobs. Half the term of office has now passed. If you continue at the same pace, you may manage to deliver 200 out of the 32,000 during your term of office. Additional services would also be introduced. I haven't heard much about them since the election campaign. But it's interesting that in an election movement it's very easy to swing with numbers – preferably very high numbers, high ambitions and a high tail movement – but obviously it's a lot more difficult when the jobs are to be delivered. It may be that you have to review your politics-- change the reality you can make changes. But the question is: Has the reality changed so enormously since Ylva Johansson took office in his ministry that we have hardly any unemployed in that situation? Trainee jobs, which I did not believe in, were still the question of parade for the government. If it was now considered that trainee jobs were so important for young people and others who were far removed from the labour market to enter the labour market, they still fail to deliver their clearest electoral promise. What is it that makes you not dare to say a number today? I can understand that you don't dare it on the basis of facts and experience right now. But it is still a little remarkable that it is so simple and clear in an election movement but not when you are then in the government.
i-1461f1e488147b05-94	Madam President, I would like Apparently, my moderate counter-debaters did not listen well in the election campaign. The most important electoral promise of the Social Democrats was about jobs and unemployment – youth unemployment specifically and unemployment in general. In fact, I think the voters understood that. That was one of the reasons why there was a change of government, since the previous government had failed in the jobs. Jobs and unemployment remain the government's most important priority. I do not intend to fall into the trap of directing specific labour market policy efforts and letting it obscure the vision of the most important thing, namely job growth and job vacancies, job creation and a fall in unemployment. There is a need for flexibility in labour market policy, and I intend to deliver that. The old government steered harder towards specific efforts. That was not a successful way to rule. Now we have changed the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen. We are not moving towards a specific number for each labour market policy effort, but we are moving towards the overall objectives of low unemployment and good matching. Madam President, I would like We have a situation where the employment rate is higher than it ever was for young people under the old government. I hope that we are all happy that this is the way it is. It is not true that long-term youth unemployment would have increased; on the contrary, it is falling. The Moderates have used such numbers in the past. If you compare different months of different years, you can give the impression that this would be the case. But that is not the case if you look at the total figures or seasonally adjusted figures. Long-term unemployment among young people is thus falling quite clearly, which is very gratifying. That doesn't mean all the problems are solved. There are still major challenges. My experience is that the more difficult the challenges we have and the more complex the problems of the unemployed, the more flexibility is needed in the efforts that can be made to get the unemployed to work. This is why, among other things, we have opened up a very close collaboration with Dua between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities in order to make more tailor-made efforts. We need several different tools in labour market policy. But we do not need strong governance in terms of which tools are to be used and in what situations. It should be determined by the needs and opportunities to get to work.
i-1461f1e488147b05-103	Madam President, I would like It gets a little strange when the Minister for Labour stands here and says that you are moving towards goals and not towards how many should be in some efforts. That may sound sympathetic. It will then be a little strange that the Prime Minister goes out and promises 5,000 standby jobs. Why would he do that? If the Social Democrats are opposed to the principle of giving figures for the number of people they want in action, why do they indicate in their communication with voters and their own movement figures? Why do the Social Democrats in the election movement use precisely figures – 32 000 trainee jobs – if from day to day they are planning to phase out or liberalise, as they call it, the management of the Employment Service and do not have digitised goals? This doesn't make any sense. Either Stefan Löfven is lying when he talks about 5,000 standby jobs or what Ylva Johansson says about not working with numbers. Somewhere the government can decide. If you have numerical targets, what are the numerical targets for trainee jobs for new arrivals? That's my simple question. Ylva Johansson invokes principles that you do not work with numerical targets, even though you state it in your external communication. This simply does not make sense. Then we can talk about all the other issues. But the question I have asked here is simple, namely: Is there such a number, or is there not such a number? You can then answer by entering a number or by saying no. You can say: there is no such number. In this particular case, we choose not to have a figure, even though we have it for standby jobs and other things.
i-1461f1e488147b05-108	Madam President, I would like I'll start by saying that I think it's a good thing that people have strengthened and are working to strengthen contacts between municipalities and Arbetsförmedlingen. I think that's right. I am critical of a lot, but I think this is a good thing that the Minister has done. I think we have a consensus there. But that does not stop what we talked about in the previous debate, namely that we are still trying to investigate and ensure that the organisation of the Employment Service works better and that we can deliver more. It is clear that cooperation between municipalities and Arbetsförmedlingen is easier if both parties have confidence in each other and feel that one and the other can contribute something and deliver. As Mr Bali said, it becomes strange when we discuss this. What was said in the election campaign about 32,000 trainee jobs but which became 100 must obviously have been election soda. And now, obviously, we do not want to give a figure for this. Contingency jobs may well be seen as some form of May Day promise to the LO Group, so that they are also satisfied for a while with the government's efforts. But then the question is: When are they going to happen, and will there be about the same percentage outcome of the standby jobs as the trainee jobs have become? In that case, not many will partake of them. How does the minister in charge view the emergency work? Of course, in previous interventions, the Minister has commented on the trainee jobs, but it is remarkable that one of its most important election promises – 32 000 trainee jobs – is so clearly announced and then it turns out that it was 100. It's not such a great delivery.
i-1461f1e488147b05-113	Madam President, I would like It is almost a little touching with this concern from Christian Holm Barenfeld and Hanif Bali about the labour market policy efforts. As a social democrat, I think it is important to make labour market policy efforts. From the Moderates it usually sounds the opposite. They don't usually think it's that important. Instead, they talk about real jobs. But my goal and the government's goal is for us to cope with job growth and unemployment. To do this, we need tools. Labour market policy action is one such tool. Education policy is another such tool. Investment is a third such tool. We need to use the tools needed to achieve the high-level objectives in terms of jobs and unemployment. However, it is not an end in itself to have as many as possible in labour market policy efforts. These efforts should be used to enable people to get to work, and they are needed.
i-1461f1e488147b05-116	Madam President, I would like Christian Barenfeld has asked me whether I believe that the government's target of lowest unemployment in the EU by 2020 can be achieved. The answer to the question is yes.
i-1461f1e488147b05-118	Madam President, I would like I thank Ylva Johansson for the likely shortest interpellation response I have ever received. It's also one of the shortest things I've ever seen. It is good that the Minister believes in the unemployment target that the government has set itself. Even if it is not exactly numbered, it is still figures that are at issue. In the Government's closing speech in the previous interpellation debate, the Government said that the Moderates tend to care most about real jobs. Of course, we want to see real jobs. Then labour market policy action may also be needed in other situations and situations. But of course it's about real jobs. The question is: when it comes to reaching the unemployment target, is it about ensuring that we get real jobs in order to get a lower unemployment rate? It is interesting that the Government and the Government, including the Prime Minister, continue to believe in the unemployment case. On the other hand, it does not seem that the Chief Analyses of the Employment Service and the Director-General believe in the unemployment target at all. It's interesting and strange. Nor do any other serious bodies believe in the unemployment case. The Council of Finance Ministers, to which the government listened very carefully, not least in opposition, condemns the whole case. The Institute of Economics has no hope of the goal. In a review, I cannot find a single serious body that believes that the government will meet its own unemployment target of Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. So far, there are no figures that point to that. The only people who remain today and who believe in the unemployment case are Stefan Löfven, Ylva Johansson and some other people in the Swedish government. If you believe in this, what will lead to the goal? The RUT and ROT deductions are reduced, which, according to the government's own estimates, will even have a negative impact on labour market policy. Many bodies – including Arbetsförmedlingen – also say so, and it was also discussed in the election movement. But then the government suggested trainee jobs and other efforts that would do the trick. Of these trainee jobs, there were only 100. You don't have any ideas. I think it is a good thing to have a high level of ambition and want a low level of unemployment. But when you in the area after the area have no suggestions for how the jobs will be more and where you have your election promises that measures and jobs would be more, you do not deliver there. How will the government and Ylva Johansson ensure that the unemployment target for 2020 is met? No one would be happier than us Moderates if Sweden were to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. What is worrying, however, is that there is a weak labour market policy.
i-1461f1e488147b05-127	Madam President, I would like You always say, "When the fuck gets old, he gets religious." It seems that when the government vacillates, the government also becomes religious. The definition of what one believes in, that the goal should be attainable, has almost any religious measure of faith over it. I do not believe that this is precisely the form of faith that Christian Holm Barenfeld refers to. If I may develop his question, on what empirical basis does the government base its view that it is possible to reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020? I would like to know the empirical basis on which this is based. According to assessors, it needs to come to 400,000 jobs. According to the same assessor, there is not even a shred of probability that it will be fulfilled. I have not read such data, but it would be very interesting to know: on what empirical basis is the government's view that it is possible to reach the EU's lowest unemployment target by 2020?
i-1461f1e488147b05-131	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that there does not seem to be anything so provocative to the opposition as the government's intention to succeed in its policy. There is nothing you are so upset about as the government's intention to achieve high-level goals. The question was put as follows: Does the Minister for Labour think that the objective of the EU's lowest unemployment rate can be achieved? Of course, the answer to that question is yes. Anyone who would answer no to that question will probably think about whether it is political that you should engage in. Then perhaps you should devote yourself to something completely different. Labour market policy must always be adapted to reality. This means that when reality changes, politics must also change if it is to be successful. Then we need to understand the situation that we are in right now. Now we have a situation with very strong growth of new jobs. As a result, many job vacancies have not been filled and a large and growing proportion of the unemployed do not have the skills needed in the labour market. In other situations it may be a different situation. But now we have this situation. The most important thing that needs to be done is, of course, to equip people who are unemployed with the skills they need and also to make it easier for employers to ask for a little lower skills than what was initially envisaged – this in order to make it easier for people to get a chance to enter the labour market. The Swedish Enterprise and Industry's assessment of how many new jobs are required to achieve the Government's goals is a measure of how strong growth is. One can compare the assessment that the Swedish business community now makes with the one that they did a year ago. What has happened during that year is that Sweden has received 163 000 asylum seekers, which is an all-time high-digit, not only in our country but in all developed countries. Despite this large refugee reception in Sweden, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has listed the forecast with only 30,000 jobs. It says something about how strong the underlying trend of economic growth and the growth of new jobs is right now. It does not last forever, but it also needs to be maintained with political action. However, in the current situation, it is absolutely essential to equip people with training and in other ways to get them ready to take the job vacancies.
i-1461f1e488147b05-137	Madam President, I would like Ylva Johansson says that there is nothing so provocative for the opposition as the government succeeds in what it wants to do. I do not think that is true, but it was a bit of the tone that was heard before the elections and also during the alliance government. It did not really burst with joy when, in various international measurements, the Government of the Alliance Government was chosen to be Europe's and the world's best, for example, Finance Minister and so on. There were numbers of appointments that we haven't really seen lately. No, I will not be provoked if the government and Ylva Johansson succeed in their labour market policies and succeed in achieving their labour market policy objective to reduce unemployment. What is provocative and I am more concerned about is the lack of job-creating proposals, which make it easier and less risky to set up and run businesses. It should also be easier to move from jobless to work. Now we have a positive economy that helps. Then there are many other parts, but as Ylva Johansson said, there is a large proportion of the unemployed who do not have the skills needed and are in demand in the labour market. Of course, you can educate people, but it's not a quick fix. We also have a record welcome for new arrivals who will largely stay here. We all have the ambition to ensure that they enter society and into the labour market. But we also know that it is an extremely long time for new arrivals in Sweden, a very long time. There are also many who have a very low level of education. The government says no to the Moderates and Alliance's proposal that you should be able to learn the job at work and how to lower the thresholds for the new arrivals. Much of this is perhaps not directly on the Minister for Employment, but on the Minister for Education, and we are probably not going to debate it here today, because he is well in my hometown of Karlstad and is trying to be re-elected today. Let's see how it goes. It is, of course, important to provide training and equip our workforce. But, as I said, it is provocative if we fail to deliver in the labour market. There are four years left to reach the goal set by the Minister and the government. If I do not have the wrong figures, Sweden is currently in 13th place in the European Union when it comes to unemployment. That means you have a pretty long way to go. A report on Arbetsförmedlingen is now being set up during the spring. It also comes from the government many proposals that make it more expensive to hire and make it more complicated, more difficult and less profitable to start and run a business. At the same time, the concrete job creation proposals are lacking. In what way should Ylva Johansson and the government be able to deliver, so that they meet their unemployment target? And on the same theme as my colleague Mr Bali: what is the factual basis for considering that this will work? What are the scientific facts behind this? Of course you can have political visions, but it is also important that there is some substance in the political visions.
i-1461f1e488147b05-146	Madam President, I would like It's almost philosophical. If you do not believe in objectives that are practically unworkable, at least not in the form of policies that are being pursued now, should you not engage in politics? Well, we might have an ambition to put a person on Venus next month. But that does not mean that it is realistic to do so, for there are quite a few empirical facts that contradict the possibility of such a thing. The government could have a longer-term goal, such as reaching Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2030. I have no empirical basis for saying that it is possible to reach the goal even then. But this can of course be investigated. One then wonders what empirical substance there is in believing that it is possible to reach the target by the year 2020. I do not think it is politically impossible to get Europe's lowest unemployment. I think we both want not only Europe's but the world's lowest unemployment. I don't think that's anything that any of us are opposed to. But regardless of political origin and ideology, you can go through the facts to try to see if it is possible to reach the target by 2020. This is where it gets weird. The government and the Minister for Labour say that it is absolutely possible to achieve the goal and that they believe that they will. On what empirical basis, then, does one base one's belief that one will reach the goal of that year? Job growth is certainly strong right now, but there is no indication that it will hold on to it and be so strong that we will have Europe's lowest unemployment.
i-1461f1e488147b05-150	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have never had high goals, but I represent a party that has often had it and has often made it. That's what we're going to do now. But it is obvious that the refugee situation and the reception we had last year have made it more difficult. Anything else would be naive to say. I want to correct Christian Holm Barenfeld on one point. It is not the case that Sweden today has a record reception of asylum seekers. But we had it last year, and it was therefore necessary to change the policy to deal with the situation, as the government did. Let us remember what policy the Moderates pursued when they had the chance to govern labour market policy. What did you do? Yes, they invested in reducing employers' contributions for young people. It was a very expensive reform that gave very little bang for the money, which is documented. They invested in job coaches, start-ups and tax cuts. None of this produced very good results in terms of unemployment or job growth. Let us also recall how it sounded to the Moderates in the electoral movement. If you restore the employers' contribution for young people, it will be a manslaughter team – youth unemployment will increase, said the Moderates then. Now we have restored the employer's contribution for young people to the previous level and invested in other efforts. And youth unemployment is falling. It is not that you in the Moderates have had a great record of anticipating the effects of various political proposals, whether your own or ours. But it should be said in your defense that these are always difficult to predict, as reality of course changes. That is precisely why labour market policy must be flexible and adapt to the outcome and changing reality. A little later today, I will meet with the OECD. They have made an independent review of Sweden's establishment policy and will present it at a press conference today. I hope that Christian Holm Barenfeld takes the chance to listen to the n. I think it's important to be reviewed and reviewed by outsiders. The OECD will carry out this type of review by several countries, but Sweden is the first to emerge. We have nothing to compare ourselves to right now, because the report on us is the first. However, later reports will also be delivered from reviews by other countries. It will be interesting to compare in which parts of Swedish politics are successful and in which parts we may have to learn from other countries, not least when it comes to shortening the time to work for new arrivals.
i-1461f1e488147b05-156	Madam President, I would like We have our respective views. That thing's clear. It goes without saying that the Alliance government carried out many important reforms in the labour market. Very much went well. During the most extensive financial crisis, Sweden was in the forefront of economics and reform. And unlike many other countries, we did not have to save ourselves from the crisis. We did not have to make mass redundancies in the public sector, as most of the outside world actually did. We received good testimony. We managed the financial crisis well, although it did of course put a lot of pressure on us, even because Sweden is one of the most export-dependent countries. The current government does not seem to believe in tax cuts but considers high taxes to be good, while we believe that it is good if people can keep more of what they earn. One of the most job-creating measures is job tax deductions, which is documented. The Social Democrats were against all five job tax deductions, but now they are largely allowed to remain, probably because they gave ordinary wage earners about 1,500 bucks more in their wallets every month. It also made one consume. As a result, it was one of the most important job creation measures. We have a great reception of new arrivals, as Ylva Johansson mentioned, and we shall have that. But we need to be better at establishment. The reception was huge last year, and it's still big. However, aside from the great refugee crisis we had, the unemployment target was condemned by all serious assessors.
i-1461f1e488147b05-160	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld says that the old government did a lot that was good. It's possible. But two things failed: the economy and jobs. There was a shift from very large surpluses in public finances to very large deficits. Unemployment was alarmingly high, especially youth unemployment. It was so high that we received EU support from the other EU countries, most of which were more severely affected by the financial crisis than Sweden. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for the debate. We will certainly come back to the issues of employment objectives, job creation and unemployment. Christian Holm Barenfeld is a diligent interpellant. I look forward to returning to those issues in more debates.
i-1461f1e488147b05-162	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström has asked me if I will take steps to ensure that Arbetsförmedlingen conducts the procurements or whether there is a willingness to phase out procured labour market training in order to do everything in its own right. First of all, I would like to stress the importance of giving those who have moved to Sweden good opportunities to quickly establish themselves in the labour market and in society. The Government has therefore put forward a number of proposals in the spring budget that are about offering early intervention to people seeking asylum in Sweden, efforts for sustainable reception and more effective establishment in the labour market, and proposals to reduce unemployment. Labour market training is an important tool for equipping job seekers with the skills needed in the labour market. I take seriously the fact that, in its procurement procedures, the Public Employment Service has not been sufficiently able to meet the needs of labour market training. Labour market training is expected to contribute to matching job seekers with job vacancies with employers. It is also serious that more people do not get a job after labour market training. I have therefore, of course, contacted the Director-General of the Employment Service Mikael Sjöberg and discussed the problems that have arisen. The Swedish National Audit Office submitted in an audit report at the end of 2015 recommendations to the Swedish Public Employment Service regarding how labour market training procurements can be developed. The Government believes that the Swedish National Audit Office's review is an important basis for the Swedish Public Employment Service's development work in the area of labour market education. The Government emphasises the value of the Authority taking advantage, as far as possible, of the efficiency potential identified by the Swedish National Audit Office regarding needs analysis in connection with procurement. The Government will closely monitor the continued work of the Public Employment Service, not least as regards the development of the results of labour market training. The Government has submitted its assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's review report to the Riksdag, which is now addressing the issue. A renewal work is currently under way within the Employment Service, which includes, among other things, the development of services offered to employers and job seekers. It is not least a question of developing how the authority is to ensure that the required training can be provided. The Government does not intend to instruct the Public Employment Service in detail on which procurements the Authority should carry out in order to fulfil its mission to provide labour market training that equips job seekers for jobs.
i-1461f1e488147b05-167	Madam President, I would like I will begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. It is very good that the Minister for Labour takes the situation at Arbetsförmedlingen seriously. Now we really need a tightening up. During the work at Arbetsförmedlingen called the News Trip, the sign has been put up: Sorry for the mess, we are rebuilding. But when it comes to education you might as well have put up the sign: Closed for reconstruction. It's that serious, actually. Chaos is a word that often comes up when I have spoken about the issue of the unemployed, supply companies and employment intermediaries. There are major shortcomings in the procurement work at Arbetsförmedlingen, Ylva Johansson. It's about routines and planning. It is about wrong priorities, carelessness and both wrong and late procurement. It concerns at least 10 000 training places. This is serious. It has huge consequences for the unemployed who are entitled to expect help. Now they may have to wait up to a year before they receive the training they should have had. There is also a risk that many of these training courses will not be available in the future at all. It affects not only the unemployed, but many of the serious suppliers who have now resigned their teachers, sold their expensive machines and closed down operations in many locations around the country. Several of them may never come back. It is particularly bad when it comes to training in shortage professions such as vehicle and professional training. There's chaos. The recent procurement of professional training for truck drivers by the Public Employment Service will be stopped when it is said that the Public Employment Service has violated the Act on Public Procurement. Between January and March this year, a total of 3,400 people attended such training. Truck drivers are currently the highest-ranking shortage profession in the transport sector. The need for 2 000 people has been estimated only within the next year. There are more examples of shortage professions where the training does not work. Arbetsförmedlingen blames a lack of resources. It's incredible. On this section, the authority is misbehaved. You can't handle much of your important mission. It seems the government here has lost its grip. There will be huge gaps when large groups will need training, and that is serious. It is serious when a large authority claims not to have the right skills and that you do not have any employees. This is an authority that has administration costs of 7 1⁄2 billion, if I remember correctly. Then it is the government's responsibility to really push so that Arbetsförmedlingen does what it should do and what it says in its mission that it should be able to do. I know that the Alliance understood the problem in many parts of the Arbetsförmedlingen and therefore started the investigation that had been in operation for a year before it became a change of government. The minister shouldn't have been able to afford to throw that investigation into the trash can. There could have been an investigation today that had told us where the major shortcomings were and what needs to be done. You have to be able to have several balls in the air at Arbetsförmedlingen. It's not individual employees we're talking about, it's the whole organization. The lack of competent and trained staff is terrible when we have a hot labour market. It is just as the Minister said: Many vacancies are not being filled. No, believe 17 it when people cannot get the education required in many of the professions because the Employment Service is not up to its task!
i-1461f1e488147b05-177	Madam President, I would like It is very serious when the unemployed are not given the opportunity to provide the training that can equip them for the job vacancies. It is very serious when employers do not get the right staff because there is no relevant training for those who could be considered for the job. It is also serious when serious and talented actors get unreasonable conditions with contracts that do not go forward in the time that they should do. I take this very seriously. That's it. I have ensured that the management of the Employment Service understands the seriousness and great responsibility of ensuring that we have a change that leads to order and efficiency in terms of labour market training and procurement. The government gives high priority to public procurement because we see the importance of public procurement and the amount of money involved and the usefulness of good public procurement. That is why my colleague, Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi, has clearly gone out with the questions several times and has also initiated and launched a new authority in support of other authorities, among others, who may need help in improving the efficiency and performance of their procurement activities. I share Katarina Brännström's view of the seriousness of this matter.
i-1461f1e488147b05-181	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister sees the seriousness of this. We have 10,000 training places that may be completely lost or, at least, may be a year away. Many of the training companies I have spoken to have said that they are cancelling staff and selling expensive machines they have. This applies, for example, to vehicle training. It will take a long time, even if they would be on the track again, before they have built up a new organization to do these trainings. What is serious is that it has such long-term consequences for so many people who are prepared to take a job. They could have done so if they had received their truck driver training. The question is, what does the government do? I think Ylva Johansson will go home and think about it. I think we need a lot of pressure here so that this does not continue. The procurement problems started last year. Then it was about welders and the kind of occupations that were not able to procure in time so that there were major delays. So it is a long process that has led to the chaos that is currently taking place. When it comes to labour market training, the register should really be reviewed. Put down the labour market training that does not create jobs! Just as the Swedish National Audit Office said in its report: Make it more flexible, and make it different across the country so that you train to work! We Moderates have proposed that all educations that do not provide jobs be scrapped. We think that we should have training courses where there is a job promise at the end. Otherwise, it's just a waste of money. Many of these courses are fresh produce; if you don't get a job at once, the training will not be worth much after a few years. It affects people who remain in a long period of unemployment. Perhaps the labour market has never been hotter than it is now. When it comes to society delivering the necessary tools so that the work that the Minister says should be prioritised by the Employment Service – the employers' contacts – can end in people getting a job. It must be possible to provide competent staff in the professions in which it is requested. This is serious. There has been a major change in the last year within Arbetsförmedlingen. I will come back to this issue and follow it. In addition, I have now been able to read about it in the paper, and I have received reports earlier on how big the problem is. Now we are also getting thousands of newcomers who are going out on our labour market, and there will be a huge gap because there are not trainings ready to deliver. That's not good. There should also be a fast track at Arbetsförmedlingen in order to make exceptions. I know that the regulatory framework for procurement is complicated and that there are long times in the process, which we could also think about. Who can tell us today what training courses are needed in four or five years' time? There is much to do in this area. However, I am pleased that the Minister takes this issue seriously. We will certainly have more debates on this, because it is so serious that we have to follow developments.
i-1461f1e488147b05-189	Madam President, I would like Labour market training is a matter for itself. According to IFAU, the government's Labour Market Expert Authority, most labour market training programmes currently show an aggregate level of even negative impact. Because there are so few people who end up in jobs after training because they are so poorly constructed – often caused by procurement – that they keep people out of work. It is therefore less well equipped than it would have been if it had not been at all. It is disastrous; I believe that the Minister for Employment shares that view. We are investing billions of taxpayers' money but also of the time and energy of job seekers in these educations, which in turn lead to higher unemployment. Of course, you can't have it that way. The review by the Swedish National Audit Office, as the Minister for Labour mentioned, gave a fairly clear picture: where the training is needed, they are not offered, and where it is not needed, they are offered. Where there is a shortage of labour, there is no training at all. This, of course, raises the question of whether the Employment Service is even capable of doing so at present. If we are to reach Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020, people must be educated. The Minister for Labour has stood in this speaker's chair and said: Education, education, education! It was then about what is the key to getting new arrivals, young people and those who have lost their job to make a change in life and be able to take a job. You have to ask yourself: Is it well-invested money when you give it to Arbetsförmedlingen? Would not the money have been more useful if it had been invested in an educational system elsewhere, for example in regular education in municipalities, such as vocational adult education? I would like an answer from the Minister to that. Does she believe that the Public Employment Service will be able to steer procurement and training in time for the large proportion of new arrivals entering the labour market by 2020? It is also about the slowdown in economic activity that is approaching. Can the Employment Service do this so that we can reach Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020? I dare say that this is crucial. Locking resources into a non-functioning activity that gives us higher unemployment is a loss not only for the political credibility of labour market policies but also for those individuals for whom these resources could have made a decisive difference. It is about combating poverty, exclusion, segregation and exclusion.
i-1461f1e488147b05-195	Madam President, I would like Let me divide my speech into two parts. As far as procurement problems are concerned, as I have said before, I share Katarina Brännström's view that this is serious. It goes without saying that the Public Employment Service as a public authority must be able to manage procurement in an efficient and correct manner. That's just the way it is. It is simply a head requirement for an authority. I would like to say to Mr Bali that what he says about the quality of labour market training and the terrible results are true. It is down to 30% that is moving from labour market training to work. There is a clear time when this change took place. This took place in 2007 – 2008, just when political change was made. Then it went from just over 70 per cent, as it was this year after year in terms of the proportion that went from labour market training to work– I have the graph with me here, so I can see it – to a total fall down to 30 per cent, where it has then stopped. This was due to a shift in labour market policy, and it took place in a pre-financial situation. It was when we had great demand for labour that labour market training was redeployed and steered. So I do not share the view that the poor performance would be mainly due to low quality labour market training. On the contrary, I would like to say that many of the suppliers are very good. Rather, I am looking for the answers that have been redirected so that efforts are directed at the wrong people. The old government directed to labour market training as an employment measure or activation measure. I think that's completely wrong. Labour market training shall lead to employment. It must be likely that the person receiving a labour market training will also get a job shortly after the training. Otherwise, there is a great risk of waste of resources. It may be a very good education provider, but if it is the wrong individual at the wrong time for the individual or if someone is ill equipped to enter the education at that particular stage, it will be difficult to get a good result. I will now come back to the issue of quality. One can see from the Swedish Public Employment Service's own evaluations that there seems to be a special deterioration in foreign born. I believe that there is a great deal more to be done when it comes to combinations of education in Swedish or mother tongue supporting actions and education. It is important to ensure that students can take on vocational training themselves, and then it might be useful to be able to use interpreters or other things so that language does not become an obstacle to taking on vocational skills. So on the issue of quality, there are important things to do – also things that we are already working on. It concerns both the governance of who should have access to labour market training and how to combine parts of education. I therefore do not share Mr Bali's view on this. But when it comes to procurement, it's just that you have to take care of it.
i-1461f1e488147b05-201	Madam President, I would like I expect strong action from the government when it comes to this. Apparently, there is a need for competent staff at Arbetsförmedlingen. They don't have the resources. There's something that needs to be checked out. If it were the case that the situation changed for the worse in 2007-2008, it will do so now. All these trainings that they haven't completed the procurements would lead to real jobs – lathes, welders, bus drivers, truck drivers and others. It's real work we're talking about. It's not trainee jobs, it's not standby jobs and it's not extra services, it's real jobs with real wages without government support. Therefore, it is particularly serious that a state authority has so completely failed in such an important part as education. The government must do something quickly. Strong action is needed. Then we can always discuss the quality of different educations. A lack of employment in a given year may no longer be a shortage occupation five years later, but the long procurement processes make people attend those trainings anyway. It's an incredible inertia in the system. There must be more flexibility in education and training leading to jobs. I think the government has a responsibility to bring this up with the Employment Service. Investigate Arbetsförmedlingen now! There could have been a clear investigation now. Make it quick, and make this authority more efficient. It hasn't been for a long time, and we can't afford to have such a bad organization at a time when you're screaming for skilled labor. I would like to thank you for the debate. We will see each other again in this Chamber on the same theme.
i-1461f1e488147b05-206	Madam President, I would like I am responsible for labour market policy, and I am responsible for problems and shortcomings within the authorities that fall within my remit. It's my responsibility when it doesn't work as it should at Arbetsförmedlingen. However, it is not my responsibility to tell you exactly what people are supposed to be employed or what tasks they are supposed to have. It's a matter of authority. The result of the decisions made by the agency is always my responsibility, but I will not go in and tell you how many people are going to work with certain tasks within Arbetsförmedlingen. That is one thing for the Director-General, and I am also absolutely convinced that the Director-General understands the seriousness of this matter. We will certainly come back to the issue of labour market training – I hope so, because a lot needs to be done here to increase efficiency. Nevertheless, I would like to point out, Madam President, that in terms of ensuring that we have order and efficiency in public procurement within our authorities, it is not a question of investigation but of execution.
