i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-1	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the bill A new law on personal names. In our report of the same name, we state that our personal names are important. My name and who I am are very close to each other. A name gives the individual an identity and an opportunity to show a relationship with other people. Our last names express which family and which family we belong to. The name creates relationships both in modern and historical times. A name can be inherited for many generations. Personal names also help to create our common identity. One can recognize one another by a personal name found in a particular cultural circle. For example, Mac speaks for roots from the north of London, and so is many other names. The legal regulation of personal names, primarily a natural person's surname and first name, is quite modern. It was during the 19th century that the personal names came. Prior to that, it was mainly noblemen, sailors, soldiers and jacks who had personal names and surnames, but otherwise names could be changed freely and new ones taken. In 1963 Sweden received a single name regulation. On January 1, 1983, it was replaced by the current law on names. The regulation of personal names is characterised by a balance between public and private law considerations. Society has an interest in name stability, in maintaining the name. It is that names make it possible to identify the citizens. It can also prevent names that we feel are inappropriate, becoming a burden to those who carry them. There is also a need to protect certain intellectual property interests, for example. But above all, the name has a meaning for myself. It is here that the committee has landed that we give the individual a greater opportunity to express who he is by his name. As the right to a given surname is closely linked to personality, as I said, it is also covered by the right to privacy under the European Convention. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child gives the child the right to his or her identity, and specifically mentions the right to a name. A new personal name law is to be introduced with the fact that today we are at 2.30 p.m. 16 decides on a new law on personal names. We want regulation to be modernised and simplified in order to strengthen individuals' ability to choose their own names. It shall be possible to acquire a double surname. Why? Won't it just be long and awkward? We want to open up to this possibility because it can express a connection between two different name traditions. Those who so desire form a new unity. A double surname shall consist of two simple surnames, each of which may be acquired as surnames. The acquirer of a double surname shall be allowed to determine the order of the names and whether or not they shall be hyphenated. A person with a double last name shall be allowed to apply for a change of name. But it should no longer be possible to acquire middle names. That is actually the big news in today's report. The aim is to strengthen the individual's ability to choose their own name and to make the legislation more accessible to the individual. This means, among other things, the abolition of the automatic acquisition of surnames through birth and adoption, the acquisition of all surnames through the application and the acquisition of many possible surnames. Among other things, the most common surnames in Sweden will be free to acquire for everyone, i.e. names that more than 2 000 people carry. It will also be possible to acquire a double surname and easier to change name, and obstacles to changing name multiple times should be removed. In order to simplify the handling of name matters, the Government proposes that the Tax Agency should become the sole name authority, and the committee agrees with this. Entry into force will take place on 1 July 2017. If this is almost everyone's agreement. But there are reservations, and I would like to point out the alliance parties' reservation No 1. Mr President, I would also like to support Amendment No 1. The Name Committee proposed that, in connection with divorce, there should be an opportunity to acquire the surname of the spouse as part of a double surname, if the spouse agrees. Such a situation could arise, for example, if a person who has not previously acquired his or her spouse's surname wants to achieve a community of names with the joint children. The government has not moved on with this proposal. The reason is that the spouses had been able to achieve a community of names during the marriage and that such wishes are likely to be very unusual. The Alliance parties make a different assessment than the government. Therefore, we have reserved ourselves and believe that, in connection with a divorce, there should be an opportunity to acquire the last name of the spouse as part of a double last name, if the spouse agrees to this. There might not be so many people taking advantage of this, but it should still be possible.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-13	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating and discussing a new law on names. It is a long-awaited proposal that we in Parliament have to adopt a position on this afternoon. Today's name law was introduced in 1983, as Tuve Skånberg said. Much in it was, of course, a modernisation of what was before, and there are some parts there that I will return to. Of course, names engage, such as first names. We know that parents sometimes give their children first names that the children may not always like very much. But what may have involved the most people is that children of cohabiting couples receive both parents' surnames. However, children of parents who marry cannot have both parents' last names but only one parent's last name. I have met many parents who are incredibly upset about this. That is why it is particularly satisfying that it is one of the things that we are going to change. I have also met people who think we have an incredibly old view of names. For people who are going to marry and want a double last name, both she and he, it has not been possible. We can't have a double last name. Then what are we doing? Tuve was a little into it. It is, among other things, that children no longer automatically receive a surname, but they can apply for the surname, which can be a double last name, the mother's last name or the father's last name. This feels good. But, as I said, the most important aspect of this is the double last names and the removal of what we now have called middle names. It is a relief because there is no one who knows what a middle name is. I have a middle name myself. Everyone who married after 1983 and has a double last name actually has middle names. In principle, however, there is no authority and no one anywhere in this country that deals with an intermediate name in the way that thought was enough. Therefore, it is a relief that we go back to the fact that there are two last names – what everyone thinks we have. However, you may retain your middle name if you have one, but you can also change it to two last names. It feels good. Something else that feels good is that you can take a new last name. Perhaps the most common thing is to take one of your parents'first names and add — son or — daughter. It can be a natural way of creating community and belonging, and it is good that we broaden that opportunity. In addition, the most common surnames are free to choose for everyone. In addition, it will be easier to change your first name. That feels good, too. We know that sometimes parents are very creative when they make up the first names of their children. It may not always be fun to have the first name given to you by your parents, and it may feel good to change. The new name agency will be the Tax Agency, which will handle everything related to names in the future. So to the question where the Social Democratic-led government chose not to follow the inquiry's proposals. As a justification, it was stated that this is a very small issue. It is possible, in connection with a divorce, to take the last name of the spouse with his or her consent. Why it has been chosen not to follow the investigation in this part is incomprehensible to me. There are certainly not many people who would be interested in doing this. But for those who have this genuine interest or need, perhaps especially in order to have a name community with their children, this becomes incomprehensible. I hope that I can get an answer from the representatives of the government to what it was that made this particular part of the House out of office. The people affected by this will find it as incomprehensible as middle names and the whole part. Mr President, I would like to I would like to express my support for reservation No 1.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-26	Mr President, I would like to Finally! On 1 July 2017, we will all be able to change name to Urban Ahlin. Of course, it is amazing what we will be able to save money by using the same name on all the benches in here and on all the study rooms. Please note that I'm saying, "I can't do this." The fact that name law concerns not least all the reactions I get when I discuss this with people. It can also be seen on all the emails that have been streaming into the email basket lately. People are worried about what will happen to their last name and wonder if it will be free for anyone to take it and so on. In the foundation, and also by Tuve Skånberg, it is pointed out that name law is a fairly new phenomenon in Sweden and that in the late 1800s it was in principle possible to choose and change name freely. Rather, I would describe it as the church and the priest who laid down the rules for which names were allowed and that the laws of names that were introduced laid down the rules that were in general already in force. If, before the law of names existed, for example in the late 1800s, you wanted to name your son as both a boy's name and a maiden's name, and in front of the priest it was motivated by the fact that gender is just a social construction, I am at least quite convinced that the priest had said no and named the child according to his own head. Then he had written in the church books something like The congregation named the child Luka. ..................................................... I have heard more recent stories where the priest has not accepted the parents' choice of name and then suggested other names whereupon the parents felt compelled to change. So completely free to take any name you want, it probably hasn't been for the foreseeable time back. We see no reason to remove the heredity of surnames from mother to child because you can already easily change this surname if you want. There is a benefit in having a given name even if the parents later want to change the name. When my Lundvik daughter was born, she was given the name But once this law has been passed, the name is well going to be a girl no. 23, or something like that. If the Social Democrats get what they want, it might be hen n° 23. It's not a big deal, but it risks becoming more impersonal when there's no given name. It is also a little ridiculous that children of married couples with a common last name do not automatically get that last name. It is almost that one misses that 19th-century priest who talked about what the child would be called, end of story. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats think that parts of the new law are good. The fact that we now remove middle names and instead make it possible to carry two surnames is one of the better changes. We are all the result of two families that meet, and then it may be of interest to point this out by keeping the surnames of both families. You can want that both when you are married and when you have children if you want the child to bear both your parents'last names. However, there is no reason to be able to add a surname to which you have no relation. The fact that this applies only to common surnames should be discussed. If common surnames are all surnames carried by more than 2,000 people in Sweden, among other things Hult and Ahlin are common surnames, and more than 10,000 are called Falk. Common surnames in Sweden are also Hussein, Mustafa, Ahmed, Ahmad and of course Mohamed. We find it difficult to see any obvious advantage for anyone who has no relationship to the name. Mr President, I would like to I understand that it is basically an attempt to reduce the bond between family, country and culture – that by making names something less strict, one believes that one can remove the bonds that exist via genealogy and the country we inherited. When you plant a new plant in the garden, you pull up all the plants that are already there so that everyone will have the same opportunity to grow up at the same time. You think that when no one feels that they have inherited the country, immigrants should more easily fit in. I don't think it's going to work very well. That's not a solution. Some of the most basic details have been missed. People will largely follow previous name culture and continue to take and inherit names, as they have previously done. I also believe that very few people just want to take a name. The argument that immigrants could more easily take the narrowed-minded name also falls quite flat. It starts from a thought that everyone who comes here does not want anything rather than to be Swedish – or at least pretend to be Swedish to get a job easier. The reality is that the vast majority of people are proud of their origins and their families and would like to highlight their origins, although on a personal level it may be to the detriment. If an employer chooses me out because I have a foreign name, I don't think I want that job either. So the new law on names will have no effect in this way; I hardly believe that. Another thing you've completely missed when it comes to fitting in is that if you're going to fit into something, you need a culture to adapt to. It does not become easier to fit in when the culture that exists is demolished. It becomes like building towers with round blocks, which is much harder than building with square blocks. A small call to the government is therefore to stop fiddling on the corners of Swedish culture, for that helps no one. If we want people to fit in, we need to be clear about what they should fit into. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I just want to say that I do not believe that many people will want to change their name to Urban Ahlin on 1 July 2017. Most people will want to keep their names and have names that say something about their person. Most people also want to follow the 19th century norms for names, where kinship governs the name – although a certain relaxation has of course been welcome. With that, I would like to endorse our reservation, that is to say, reservation No 2.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-44	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party believes that the individual's freedom to formulate his own name needs to be increased. The Swedish name law is outdated and partly also unsystematically designed. This has created obstacles in everyday life for many people to bear the name they want, and therefore a proper reform of the name law is needed. The Center Party and the Alliance welcome the fact that the government has now put forward a proposal for a completely new law on personal names. The proposal leads to significant liberalisation and, at the same time, to a more uniform administrative framework. The most important news is that the most common surnames are free for everyone to acquire, that the obstacle to changing names is removed several times and that the possibility of acquiring a double surname is reintroduced. The proposal is essentially based on the report presented in 2013 by the Parliamentary Committee on Names. We in the Center Party mainly support the bill. However, there are two points where changes and clarifications could have made the law better, as we see it. We in the Center Party and the Alliance believe that the government would have followed the proposal of the Name Law Committee that there should be the possibility, in connection with divorce, to acquire the last name of the spouse as part of a double last name, but provided that the spouse agrees to it. Such a situation could and is relevant if you have not previously acquired your husband's name but want to achieve a community of names with the common children. The government is therefore not going ahead with this proposal, which we believe it should have done. Another part I would like to highlight is the Alliance's accompanying motion. It is a question of applications for names normally being submitted by electronic means. We see that the introduction of new legislation could also be a natural time to move on to the principle that digital applications in name cases should be the general rule. Mr President, I would like to In accordance with the Alliance motion in the Civil Committee, I urge the Parliament to support what is stated in the motion.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-50	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden it is not possible to choose to become a common Svensson – because the name Svensson is today occupied. It is at least 15 years since we Liberals started to look at the law of names, and finally we got an investigation. Now comes the liberalisation of the name law. It is a good report, and the government is following the proposals in it on almost every point. Our joint alliance reservation is about the point where we choose not to follow the proposal in the report, which my fellow Alliance Members have rightly put forward. We also believe that a new team of names for the future will be handled with the tools of the future, which is why we stress the importance of digitalisation. I ask you to accept reservation 1. Finally, the right to double names is restored, and it becomes an administrative structure for all names. Everything goes to the IRS. It simply becomes easier for everyone. Precisely by not being allowed to have a double name is the most common that people have had comments on when it comes to names. You want to keep your last name, but you also want to show a relationship with your family. Making it possible with a double name means that people can show name identity. It is also a blow to equality, because the most common thing is that a woman still changes her last name to the man's when she is married. The possibility of forming a common double name means that no party has to give up its name. To give the opportunity to simplify name changes simply has a lot of advantages, too 中 s in a name? That which we call a rose/By any other name would smile as sweet. ..................................................... O Romeo Romeo why are you Romeo? Deny your family, opt out of your name. Or just swear you love me, and I'm no more a Capulet. It is your name that is my enemy. You're you, not a Montague. For what is Montague? Not hand, not foot, arm, face or any other part of man. O was some other name! What's a name? What we call rose Would smell just as wonderful Whatever it was called. And if Romeo carried another name, he would still be all that he is. Romeo, give up your name, it's not even part of you. Replace it for all of me! Romeo and Julia meet and fall in love with Shakespeare's story, and here Julia wants Romeo simply to put his name away. She loves a person called Montague, not the name Montague and not the Montague family. Romeo also rejects his last name. There are several reasons to think that Romeo and Julia have their points, except that it is actually a fantastic text in itself. However, both Romeo and Julia are out here cycling, I think – Julia, who thinks Romeo should give up his name for her, and he, who happily and willingly also agrees to it. At the same time, we see the explosive power in this particular name. What's in a name? - Yeah, a lot, actually. Names are not neutral. A name means something to the giver, to the wearer, and to the hearer or seer. This is what Charlotte Hagström says, who has written the book You are what you are called – N amn and identity. Names create belonging, belonging and community. To be taken away from your name is to lose your identity, and it is an immense weapon of power to use against another human being. We have seen this throughout history. In America, Africans were deprived of their names and given slave names. During World War II, prisoners in the concentration camps were stripped of their names and given numbers. We are now seeing it in Turkey, where Kurdish names are still more or less banned. Since 2003, it is permitted for ethnic minorities to bear names other than Turkish – if they are written with the Turkish alphabet and do not offend or undermine social morality. They must also not contain q, w or x, as these letters do not appear in the Turkish Latin alphabet. However, they are common in the Kurdish name. We do not even have to go to other countries; we can look at what it has looked like here in Sweden. When the church came to Sami areas in the 1700s the Sami names were considered pagan. Children were to be baptized in the Christian faith, with Bible names. Kurds often have a name in their papers and a name they are called at home. The same thing was done among the Sami. When you came home from church, you simply had another ritual and gave the child a Sami name. To deprive someone of his or her name, to impose a new identity on someone, is to dehumanise and oppress. The same is true when you control what people are called. It should be said that that's hardly what Julia was after. Tell me your name, and I'll tell you who you are. There are many studies on the importance of names and people's attitudes to names. But there is a study that looks at people who have changed their names. In the past they have had a name that comes from Africa or the Middle East in particular. In the 1990s they changed to names that were more Swedish-sounding. These people received an increase in annual income of between $1,000 and $15,000. Our names give associations. We associate names with people we've met before. We put a lot of emotion into them. For everyone, there is some name that gives a negative association and others that arouse only positive associations. My name is Ingrid after my grandmother. It was a name I hated when I was a kid. It was old-fashioned and embarrassing, and I'd rather not say it out loud. The only good thing about the name Ingrid was that it gave me the initials CIA because my name was Andersson too. Nowadays I am very proud to bear my grandmother's name, and my daughter bears another of her name, simply because I wanted to pass it on. To bear someone else's name, to be named after someone, is usually a great honor. Mr President, I would like to I had hoped that today I would stand here and debate in the knowledge that the new President of the United States would be called Hillary Clinton. Unfortunately, that was not the case. It is another name that is on everyone's lips and not least on all Twitter accounts. On the other hand, it makes me particularly proud that I am actually standing here today and that this afternoon we are going to decide on a more liberal and freer law of names. There is a need for more liberalism and freedom in the world, not less. The report we are debating today is a liberalisation of the name law and allows more people to be called what they want and what they feel is right for them. It may also create greater transparency and tolerance for differences. Since surnames worn by more than 2 000 people can finally be carried by anyone, anyone can also finally become an ordinary Svensson. The beauty of the crow song is that it does not matter either if it is Svensson, or for that matter the more common Johansson, but it also applies to noble names and others. It's the number of people who bear the name that matters. Just let go of the last name! It's not ours, but it's gonna be ours. It is time for more liberalism and freedom in the law of names.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-65	Mr President, I would like to Previous speakers have addressed some of the changes in the new name law. I would like to sum it up by removing the automatic transfer of names. In principle, this is based on an application and free choice of name. When it comes to children, this becomes important, for example, that they can get siblings' surnames. It may be a problem if a couple have had the first child as a cohabiting couple and the second as a married couple. Then it may be that the children do not have the same last name. It is therefore an important change. Another change is that you should not only be able to take your parent's last name but also your parent's first name with the addition- daughter or-son, a little that applies with Icelandic name with dottir. I find it exciting that if your mother's name is Ylva, for example, you should be called Ylvasdotter, Ylvasson, Karlsson or something else. This shows further affinity. It is not just that it is an old name that may have existed for many generations, but that it actually has a direct connection to your parent. As has been mentioned here, there will be many different surnames to choose from, and the most common surnames will be free. It is also a major step forward to be able to acquire a double name and that it no longer becomes so sensitive as to the order in which these surnames should come. One can be called Karlsson Nilsson and the other Nilsson Karlsson, even though they want to be called the same in the family. You can also choose whether to have a hyphen or not. You can also change your last name. All of this is based on the work of the parliamentary committee that reviewed the name law and started its work in 2009 and delivered its report in 2013. The report has been referred to, and virtually all the referral bodies are positive. Even the Law Council has said yes. We have been working on this issue for a very long time, even before 2009. It therefore feels like a breakthrough that something is finally happening. It has been a very long time since the 1982 Name Act came, and there are many things that have happened in society and that we need to affirm and change. As has been said, it is very good that you do not automatically get a name when you marry without applying for it. You choose whether you want to keep your name or if you want a name community and the same name as your husband. If you have acquired a surname by being married, you have already been able to keep the last name from the previous marriage. A novelty is that you can transfer this name not only to your child, as you have previously been able to, but also to a new husband. The reason for this change is to achieve community of names in the new family so that everyone, if you want, can have the same surname. When you take a new surname you can choose from all the names that exist, and it has become a larger selection, but you can also form a whole new surname. If you choose to take a new surname, it is interesting that your parents, siblings and nephews can also take this surname, even against the will of the person who has the name. It really will be a greater freedom. In most cases, I think it will be something everyone agrees to. This shows that there are quite far-reaching changes taking place here for the benefit of the individual's own ability to choose names. Previous speakers have mentioned that there will still be some exceptions. Nevertheless, the individual's right to choose names must be weighed against the individual interests of others. Thus, if it harms another individual, it may be a reason not to choose freely. Of course, this also applies if it harms the bearer of the name, such as a child who cannot choose for himself when it is small. Another question concerns previous family names, which now state in law that one should be able to change to a family name that has existed for previous generations, and it can be as far back as four generations from those who want to change to that name. Some have seen this as a deterioration. But that is not the case, as practice has already been that we cannot go back any further than four generations. But now it's laid down in law. To make exceptions to this and, for example, go even further back in time required exceptional reasons in the past to do so. Now there is a need for specific reasons. You could say it's a little easier. Above all, it is now clear what applies in these cases. When it comes to how to change your name in concrete terms, this is done through an application to the Swedish Tax Agency. It becomes simple and clear, and you know where to turn. We say that doing this electronically is not an obstacle. But it has been understood by some that there should be an exception. But of course, in the same way that you freely choose your name, you choose freely how to apply for a change of name. It can be done either by letter, by e-mail or by other means. The important thing is that it should be done in writing. When it comes to applications for a change of name, there is really no difference to today. Already today, fees for this can be charged, especially if you have already changed your name and will change again. But the difference is that you can now change your name as many times as you like. However, it is also made clear that fees can be charged corresponding to the Tax Agency's administrative and staff costs. It also has a dampening effect if someone were to put in a system to change their name absurdly. The possibility exists, but it costs in the form of an administrative fee. Former speakers have mentioned a number of criticisms. I mentioned this by, of course, being able to do this electronically. There has also been some criticism of the presumption of the mother's surname. If, for example, a newborn does not come in with an application for the name of the child, it will be given the same name as the one who gave birth after three months, i.e. the mother. So it will not be nameless children, but there is no presumption that it will automatically be so. Instead, for three months you have the chance to come in with a different name — or the mother's name. The same applies to adoption; b arnet will be given a name.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-79	Mr President, I would like to I really only have one question, and that is the question I asked in the speaker's chair as well. It is very surprising that we first have the view that the consultation bodies were positive, and yet we choose to remove one of the parts of the name inquiry's proposal, i.e. the possibility of taking the name of the spouse in connection with the divorce – if it says yes. Why?
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-80	Mr President, I would like to As the proposal is drafted, it will be possible to change the surname of the spouse during the reconsideration period in connection with divorce, and then to the surname of the spouse. This will be possible against the will of the spouse, which means that even in divorce proceedings you can change your name even if the spouse says no. According to the reservation made by the bourgeois parties, divorce should be able to be changed to the spouse's name, and that is actually the same thing. For the period of thought is in connection with the divorce. It is especially in cases where children are involved that I think this may be the case, because otherwise there is no reason to have a community of names with someone you are different from. Against this background, it will still be possible. It concerns a few cases, but it is clear that the possibility should exist. It is then done during the reflection period.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-82	Mr President, I would like to I still cannot understand why you did not go all the way with the opinion of the Names Committee. It may be in a later situation, where one still fully agrees, that one wants to be able to take the name of one's former husband or wife j ust to get the name community with his children. When there is not the slightest conflict in this, it seems to me to be an incomprehensible limitation of the possibility. I just think it's a shame. Otherwise, it is a good piece of legislation, which we have been waiting for quite a long time; I just think it is a pity that you could not take the step fully and fully follow the proposals of the Names Committee.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-83	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say that we are following the vast majority of the proposals in the investigation. I think it's rare to follow so many suggestions in an investigation; it often lands a little differently in a bill. Most of it is therefore involved, and I also see a very small difference between the proposal of the Name Act Committee and the proposal we have landed in. With the reflection period, there is every possibility of changing the name during that time. It is also a more far-reaching possibility because it is possible to do against the will of the spouse. Your proposal is that it should be done with the will of the husband or wife, Ewa Thalén Finné. Nor do I think that this is very different from the proposal in the reservation from the bourgeois parties. It says that this applies to divorce, so it is not about years after the divorce has passed. In view of this, the request is met. The change is made during the reflection period. There is really no valid reason why you should have a name relationship with someone you have already divorced. This is the case in a few cases, but there is still the possibility of a change of name during the reflection period and then get a community of names with their children – which is the main purpose.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-86	Mr President, I would like to I can only reflect a little on the fact that today we woke up to a somewhat different world from the one we had yesterday. It affects me quite a lot, and probably several of you in the debate as well. This is an important piece of legislation that we have long wanted to have in place, but the outcome of the US elections has obviously affected all of us. Emma Ulla Elisabet Hult – those are my names. All the names have been given to me because someone else in my family has had them in the past, some as address names or middle names and others as first names. My last name has been given to me by my mother. If more people want to be called Hult, I welcome it, because I think it's a very nice last name. This means a clearing or opening in the forest. My mother has always said that she would have a girl named Johanna, and if I had become a boy I would have been Axel. I'm glad I became a Emma. I'm saying that's because a name is so much more than just something we use when speaking up. For me, my name is part of me and my identity. I'm happy and comfortable with the name my parents have chosen for me, but not everyone is. The new name law was issued in 1982. Then I wasn't born, and that says a lot about how much time has passed. Much has also happened since then. Now the Names Committee has come up with a proposal, and the government has based it on a proposal. As we have heard before, the aim is to give citizens greater freedom to choose the names they want, and to make the legislation easier to understand. So anyone who is not satisfied with his name will now have much more opportunity to switch to another. I am not going to stand here and repeat everything that has been said, but it is about the fact that one will now be able to acquire a double last name and that children will be able to have names with both the ending-son and the ending-daughter. It will also be possible to make repeated name changes, if you wish, and it will also be free to change to a surname that more than 2 000 are called – for example Hult, which is a very nice surname. All this is done to make it easier for the individual to decide what they want to be called. Nevertheless, I was going to take an example, because this is complicated – and I very much hope that we will not have to hear about cases like this in the future. I have a friend who had her first child before she got married. They decided that the child would have both parents'names because they had not married. Then the parents married, and to give the mother the same name as the child, she took the father's name and got her own middle name. When they got married, they had their second child, and then that child got the father's last name, that is, the name of both parents, while the mother's name disappeared. They'd like to be called the same thing in the family. Now they are given the opportunity to do so, and we will not have to have this pretzel road to actually call it the same thing in the family. You'll be able to have a double last name. There are also many more examples that we will now remedy. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the report.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We are now debating a new law on personal names. It is high time that Sweden got a new, modern name team with greater freedom of choice. The proposal makes it easier for people to choose both first names and surnames themselves – with certain exceptions, for example in the case of names that may appear offensive or names that need to be protected for various reasons. The name is important to our identity. It is also important for society to be able to identify different people, but primarily the name is important for the individual – for me as a person. The name shows who you are and who you have kinship and fellowship with. Since the right to a fair surname is closely linked to personality, it is also covered by the right to privacy under the ECHR. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, children have the right to their identity, which according to law is shown, inter alia, in the form of names and family relationships. Among other things, the new proposal abolishes the automatic acquisition of surnames by birth and adoption. All surnames shall be acquired through the application, and there shall be many possible surnames to acquire. For example, the child may receive the mother's or father's last name, or both. You can also choose to take your mother's or father's first name and add your son or daughter. This is great. A change that I know many are waiting for is the possibility of taking a double last name. This is not possible today, as I myself have seen. My husband and I would have liked to keep the respective surnames that we had before we got married, while at the same time we wanted to add the other's last name. This new law makes this possible, and I know that I am not alone in welcoming this new opportunity. The surnames can be combined as you wish. The limitation is that no more than two surnames are allowed. By taking a double name, you strengthen the family community of names. It is also good for equality. I think it is reasonable for the most common names to be free for everyone. This applies to surnames carried by 2 000 or more. I don't think all Andersson or Svensson are upset that there will be some more Andersson or Svensson in society. Most consultation bodies have also endorsed this proposal to remove the protection of the most common surnames. On the other hand, it is reasonable that minor surnames, worn by only one or a few families, are administratively protected. However, the more carriers a surname has, the weaker the protection interest. Far from everyone wants a distinctive name. Many times, instead, a change of name is about freeing oneself from a name with which, for various reasons, one can no longer identify with or want to be associated. For example, it may be harassed people who want to change to a more common name, and then that opportunity must be there. The proposal can also make it easier for cohabiting people who want to have a community of names. It is also reasonable and good that the Swedish Tax Agency will become the sole name authority with the new law, which – if passed – will enter into force on 1 July 2017. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-104	Mr President, I would like to Strong consumer protection is important in many areas. In Sweden we have long had many laws that protect consumers, and even within the EU there are a lot of directives for this. Since February 2014, there has been a bank loan directive that will now be implemented in Swedish law. The then alliance government set up an investigation to investigate how this implementation would be done, with the addition to also considering measures to promote a healthy amortisation culture. I would like to start by saying a few words about this. Then I would like to say something about information and, finally, I will refer to the reservations of the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party. Buying a home is for many people the most important purchase in life. At the same time, the consumer is at a great disadvantage in terms of information. The large and growing housing shortage also aggravates the situation of many home buyers by pushing up prices and limiting choice. At the same time, we know that the increase in household indebtedness poses a risk to both the individual and financial stability. Over the past few years, we have carried out several changes regarding cash payments and amortisation requirements. I believe that housing policy is the fundamental problem with regard to housing loans. Sweden needs effective reforms for more housing. But it is now a question of mortgages, and it is important that we have clear and clear rules that provide a high level of consumer protection. I would like to point out that the task of consumer protection is not to relieve the consumer of any kind of financial risk. It is up to the consumer to obtain information himself and to understand the information he or she receives. It is important to keep this in the balance. The Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Center Party welcome the bill for the most part. As far as the amortisation culture is concerned, it is clear from the legal text that the consumer should have a discussion before taking out a loan on an individual amortisation plan. I think this is a good thing, and it is also good that it is clear that the amortisation plan may change during the credit period. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about information. Sometimes you can ask yourself why it should be so difficult to understand agreements. Do they have to be so long and with such small text? What do the various disclaimers mean? How do you know if a contract is unfair or not? In general, there is, as I have said, a knowledge advantage among creditors vis-à-vis consumers. At the same time, the development in the credit society is moving towards an increase in household indebtedness – and to a large extent also over-indebtedness. Many changes have therefore taken place in consumer protection in recent years to reduce the problems of over-indebtedness, such as changes in the Consumer Credit Act. In its instructions, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has tightened the requirements for creditors. It has also been given more scope for sanctions and has sharper tools to use. Clearer information requirements for consumers are now being introduced. Much information is basically good, but there is also a risk that the information will be so extensive that it becomes unreasonable to expect the consumer to be able to take in everything. There is a danger that we will instead sign something that we are not aware of. It is therefore important that the agreements are understandable, but, as everyone in this House knows, it is not simply to legislate on this. These proposed amendments to the Consumer Credit Act provide that the creditor shall provide the consumer with appropriate information on the housing credit before the conclusion of a contract by means of a standardised EU Information Sheet. Furthermore, the creditor must provide information on the reference interest rates and a lot of other elements on which the credit is based. I believe, as I said, that this is a good thing, but the importance of balance must be pointed out. There must be a balance both in terms of information to the consumer and in terms of the creditor's obligation to provide information. Bureaucratisation should not be unduly burdensome, and another objective of the Mortgage Directive – in addition to consumer protection – was to promote a well-functioning mortgage market. It is important that the information becomes a support and not a burden. This brings me to the rejection request of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Center Party regarding the amendment proposed in the Consumer Credit Act concerning the information to be provided to the consumer regarding interest and – above all – certain fees. Already today, banks report their average mortgage interest rates and the factors taken into account when offering the consumer a mortgage rate, as provided for in Finansinspektionen's instructions. Now it is also proposed that the bank's financing costs be reported. This is going one step further than what the Mortgage Directive provides for. As the Competition Authority, among others, has written in its referral, there is a risk that, instead of protecting the consumer, this will lead to a deterioration in competition on the market, which in turn affects the consumer. That is why we have proposed that that part of the paragraph should not be implemented. The information already provided for and provided for in the Directive is entirely sufficient. Now, Mr President, I would like to say a brief word about advice. Many good things in terms of advice are proposed to be implemented in this legislative proposal. For example, it says that the giver should have experience of this, which may seem obvious. It is also clear that there is currently no provision for a ban on commissions, which I also think is a good thing. As I said, the creditor has a knowledge advantage. Therefore, advice is a good and necessary thing. There are concerns about restricting the possibility for advisors to receive compensation from someone other than the consumer. This could make it possible for fewer people to take part in counselling. That is why we have proposed that the government should follow up on this legislation to ensure that it does not prevent consumers. Finally, I would like to mention something about supervision. I have mentioned this in other debates in the past. It is proposed that the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority should exercise supervision. I have nothing against any of the two authorities, but I think it is unwise to have several different authorities supervising the same creditor. Therefore, I think that we should return to Parliament with a proposal that gives an authority a collective responsibility. With that, Mr President, I would like to say that we in the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party support our reservations, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-122	Mr President, I would like to The proposals in the bill Strengthening consumer protection in the mortgage market, which we are now debating, are based on the report of the Mortgage Investigation. The study was tasked with considering how the EU Directive on mortgages should be implemented in Sweden. In addition to this, the investigation was tasked with proposing ways to increase consumers' transparency and understanding of the mortgage rate and how it is determined. Like most consumer policy issues, this proposal also deals with the balance between consumers and businesses. There we often find consumers in a lack of knowledge, which makes it difficult to assess the risks and costs of different borrowing arrangements. The proposals aim to strengthen the consumer's position vis-à-vis creditors in the mortgage market. As I said, mortgages are often complex, and it is difficult for us to understand how the terms are determined. That's why it's hard to compare to find the right one. This proposal proposes a number of regulatory measures in the mortgage market to strengthen your and my ability to obtain better information and make well-considered decisions when we take loans to buy a home. For many, buying a home and taking a mortgage are the biggest economic decisions made in life. Then it is also reasonable to have access to information that creates the conditions for choosing the creditor and the loan that provides the best conditions. The majority of legislative changes are incorporated into the Consumer Credit Act. Under the new law, offers of mortgages must be written and given with at least a week's reflection period. The Bank shall also ensure that the consumer understands what has affected the interest rate offered, by providing information on the bank's cost of financing, the average interest rate for similar loans signed or offered and individual factors for the consumer. It shall not be permitted to make a mortgage conditional on other products and services, but if package solutions are offered, information on the cost of the different parts shall be clearly stated. The information provided today is not sufficient. The so-called list rates often say very little about what the actual interest rate for the consumer will ultimately be. As I said, the mortgage is our biggest economic decision and has a major impact on our economy as the majority of households' indebtedness is the mortgage. It is therefore important that we be able to obtain comprehensive information. Many times, of course, that information can be difficult to absorb. Therefore, a right to be explained before a decision is taken is also introduced. The transparency of interest rate setting is also important in order to ensure that the cost of the strengthened rules introduced to create a more secure financial system is not entirely passed on to consumers. We have a mortgage market characterised by a lack of competition and high profit margins for banks. We must then give consumers the tools to become more active and negotiate interest rates. Given the high profits on mortgages, there is clearly room for manoeuvre. An amortisation plan shall also be drawn up for the loan in question to stimulate a healthy amortisation culture. This is extremely important because it is common for homes to be borrowed up to 85 percent of the value. The high level of leverage is risky not only for the consumer but also for economic stability as a whole. The legislation also introduces stricter marketing rules as well as the obligation for the lender to provide the consumer with adapted information through a standardised EU information sheet prior to the conclusion of the contract. The proposal proposes a new Commercial Law on Housing Credit Activities. It regulates the authorisation and supervision of companies that grant or broker mortgages. Rules on those who want to call themselves independent advisors or credit intermediaries are tightened up. Compensation must not be received from anyone other than the consumer and must be based on a sufficient number of credit agreements to be able to call themselves independent. This simply gives us consumers a clearer table of contents for the advice or credit intermediation that we are considering using. If you're not independent, don't call yourself that either. Important requirements for sufficient knowledge and competence of the staff are also laid down in the new law. Mr President, I would like to The implementation of the Mortgage Directive is an important step towards a well-functioning mortgage market with a high level of consumer protection and sustainable lending. I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-136	Mr President, I would like to Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs on the strengthening of consumer protection in the mortgage market. The proposal will further strengthen consumer influence over the mortgage market. This is a welcome measure for the large number of consumers who own their home. Today we have a distorted housing market, where many people are forced to buy their homes because there are often no other alternatives. In order to buy their home, the overwhelming majority must take large mortgages and go into debt for a very long time, perhaps for the rest of their lives. For many people, therefore, buying a home is the most important economic transaction they make in life. The decision on how large a person's loan should be and under what conditions is therefore of great importance for people's future lives and private finances. Today, it is difficult for a consumer to gain a good insight into the functioning of the mortgage market, such as the pricing of mortgages. The mortgage market is complex and difficult to understand, and banks and other creditors undoubtedly have a great knowledge advantage vis-à-vis the consumer. This imbalance in favour of banks is important to do something about, which is why consumer protection in the mortgage market needs to be strengthened. A well-functioning mortgage market is of great importance not only for the individual's economy but also for the economy as a whole. About two thirds of Sweden's population live in their own house or in a right-of-occupancy building. In June 2015, lending to households in Sweden with housing as collateral amounted to approximately SEK 3,300 billion, which is a huge sum. In a market of this size, shortcomings in regulation or market behaviour may have negative effects that extend beyond the specific market. We all remember what happened when the housing bubble burst in the United States and what enormous consequences it had for both individuals and society at large. This demonstrates the importance of having a regulatory framework that contributes to stability and counters financial imbalances. The proposed legislative changes include providing the consumer with clearer information, better transparency on how the interest rate is set and at least seven days' reflection to consider an offer of a housing credit. The consumer shall also receive a proposal for an amortisation plan. There will be stricter rules for home credit advice. For example, a ban is imposed on those claiming to provide independent advice to receive compensation from someone other than the consumer. All these proposals are good and strengthen the consumer's power and transparency in the housing market. I also welcome the suggestion that the bank or credit institution should not be able to demand that, in order to obtain a home credit, the consumer also has to purchase other financial products or services. The large banks continue to make billions of profits on mortgages in particular. Against this background, it is reasonable to give consumers greater transparency as to how interest rates are determined. It is therefore surprising that the bourgeois parties do not believe that it is important for consumers to be given the full opportunity to understand how the interest rate is determined in residential credit agreements, which have a very significant impact on the private economy. A clearer set of interest rates gives consumers more opportunities to compare different credits and choose the option that suits them best. I also think it is good that the Swedish Consumer Authority and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have a joint supervisory responsibility. There are two authorities that have long experience in cooperating. The Swedish Consumer Agency needs to be included in this context in order to secure and strengthen the consumer perspective. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-146	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in its opinion. I welcome the continued engagement of the European Commission and the High Representative in the Arctic, as expressed in the communication. The communication is well balanced between land and sea and between environment and sustainable economic development. It is essential that the EU continues its efforts to develop a balanced and coherent Arctic policy. In January 2016, the Government presented a new orientation for Arctic environmental policy with reinforced efforts within the Arctic Council for Climate and Renewable Energy, increased legal protection for sensitive nature in the Arctic and robust regulations that ensure the highest level of protection in oil drilling in the Arctic. It will also work towards the establishment of institutions that ensure sustainable fisheries in the Arctic, which further clarifies Sweden's commitment to the area. Mr President, I would like to In its decision-making process, the EU must pay particular attention to the unique conditions prevailing in the Arctic. There are several reasons why the Arctic must be protected. These include slowing down global warming, preventing harmful emissions, protecting endangered species and protecting indigenous peoples' traditional lifestyles. There is, also in the Arctic, a need for enhanced protection of sea areas outside national jurisdiction. An implementing agreement to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea with the aim of protecting and preserving marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction would be welcome. In this respect, it is positive that the Communication highlights the need to improve the balance between the conservation and use of biodiversity. In addition to focusing on, among other things, international cooperation to respond to the impact of climate change on the Arctic and the focus on promoting and contributing to sustainable development, the Communication presents three key strategic objectives and priority policy areas for an integrated Arctic EU policy: The effects of climate change in the Arctic region have become increasingly tangible and prominent. The warming in the Arctic takes place twice as fast compared to the average of global warming. Ice melting on land and at sea, emissions and pollution create a negative synergistic effect, resulting in major pressures on the region's fragile and invaluable ecosystems. Despite a number of research projects and implemented Arctic observation and surveillance programmes, knowledge of Arctic systems is still lacking. Therefore, it is to be welcomed that over the next ten-year period, the EU will devote the equivalent of EUR 200 million to research into the Arctic under the Horizon 2020 programme. Mr President, I would like to With regard to sustainable economic development, the Arctic region faces specific challenges. The Arctic is sparsely populated and has major challenges regarding transport connections. The Communication points out that space infrastructure has an increasingly important role to play in connecting people and businesses and in meeting needs such as education, health, language and culture. Horizon 2020 could accelerate the transformation of research results into technologies and services with commercial cold climate potential. It is important that the proposals put forward take account of the population of the region, their traditional livelihoods and the impact of economic development on the Arctic environment. Increased competition for resources and increased economic activity can lead to a polarisation of different national interests. Therefore, the region must remain a low-voltage area of security policy. The fact that the communication makes such a clear reference to this is a good thing. Growth and prosperity depend on future international cooperation in the region remaining constructive. I also welcome the emphasis on the importance of effective and sustainable management of the Arctic Sea, good environmental protection, respect for international law and sustainable exploitation of marine resources. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that it is in the interests of both the European Union and Sweden to preserve the Arctic as an area characterised by cooperation based on international law, solid scientific research and the traditional and local knowledge of the indigenous peoples and local communities of the region. Commonly, a balanced and coherent Arctic policy must be designed to meet the challenges facing the Arctic.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-155	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Foreign Affairs Committee's statement on the EU's continued involvement in the Arctic is being debated. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is in favour of the EU's efforts to develop a balanced and coherent Arctic policy. Friend of order may well ask why this is not already in place, but to a large extent it does. The Communication also deals with sustainable development, promoting international cooperation at all and ensuring that the Arctic continues to be a low-voltage area of security policy. However, cooperation is needed in particular to address climate change and environmental problems. Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of consensus on this matter. It is good to strengthen the protection of marine areas, it is good to have an ecosystem-based management of the marine environment and it is great to have research and science. The only thing you can possibly be concerned about is that the good intentions are not being fulfilled. But a constructive opposition has the role of examining that the government is pushing in the EU for that to happen.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-157	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we had a meeting in the Export Control Council, and then we will have to give up all the electronic means. You sit in a kind of medieval darkness, which is embarrassing sometimes. It has been a long night, and perhaps a long night's journey toward darkness. I'll get back to you a little bit. This case is a little linked to the presidential elections in the United States. It is about the European Commission's communication on a common framework for combating hybrid threats. The Committee on Defence broadly supports the proposals contained in the communication. The committee proposes that the Parliament add the statement to the file. That's how far we're in. However, we have another justification, which I would like to support. The Left side sees a number of horizontal problems with the document. In working towards a safer world, one must see that the threat of the future is greater than it has been historically. Of course we have Russia's attempts to destabilise itself, the arms race in our neighbourhood, the war in Syria and Turkish restrictions on human rights. All of this gives a rather traditional threat picture. At the same time, acts of terrorism and increasing fascist currents create uncertainty and insecurity in Europe. Yesterday, as I said, it was the presidential elections in the United States. Since I am a positive person, I will try to find some joy in this. It is possible that the tide of the transatlantic link is waning and that NATO proponents are perhaps getting a little carried away. I think it's pretty lucky we're not in that military alliance. The Commander-in-Chief is now called Donald Trump in practice. Well, also climate change, pandemics, natural disasters, hunger and poverty are security policy threats to be taken seriously. There are problems. At the same time, I think the message has an overemphasis on the fact that the security situation is dramatically poor. It's no coincidence that you paint that picture. I believe, Mr President, that this document is clearly moving towards an increased militarisation of the European Union. Such a development is unfortunate, not least from a security policy perspective. For the Left Party, the military freedom of alliance is central. Then we can have an independent foreign policy and an international credibility where we have the opportunity to build security together with others in the sense of common security. The document points to increased cooperation between the EU and NATO as an important factor in enhancing security against hybrid threats. I think it's the other way around. Closer cooperation between the EU and NATO – possibly with Trump as Commander-in-Chief in practice – risks increasing tensions in our world. It would also bring the individual Member States closer to NATO, which is seriously in danger of safeguarding our military alliance freedom. Something that is at least as serious is that the document does not at all clearly define what a hybrid threat is. This makes it difficult to take a position on much of the text. For example, it is proposed to extend the so-called solidarity clause contained in the Lisbon Treaty in order to be able to use it in the event of major and serious hybrid threats. Extending military obligations to other Member States without first identifying which areas could be covered is extremely problematic. You can't work that way. It must be concentrated, defined and prioritised. The message does not help to clarify it. It is even said here that diplomacy can pose a hybrid threat. The world would need more diplomacy and not less. We also take seriously the wording that exists about greater opportunities to increase support for border surveillance. It lumps together wordings on organised crime, terrorism and arms smuggling with so-called irregular migration. It is not clear what is meant by, for example, additional support for border management in the event of an emergency. Is it Frontex that should have increased powers, or who? It is every person's right to seek asylum from war, terror, persecution or oppression. Safeguarding the EU's internal security should be about putting an end to potential threats, not about hindering people's right to escape. The document also highlights issues relating to the exchange of information within the Union and between the EU and NATO. It is clear that we must work together on international crime. But it is also important to protect personal integrity. There is a risk that the sweeping wording contained in the document will lead to increased monitoring. It can be a disproportionate violation of the privacy of the individual. It is also necessary to specify that private companies should rapidly remove terrorist propaganda in order to be able to take a position on it. What happens, for example, to the liberation movements that are rather arbitrarily classified by some states as terrorist organisations, the PKK and the PYK that are actively fighting Daish in Syria? The difference between a terrorist organisation and a liberation movement lies in the eye of the viewer. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that it was only in connection with his 90th birthday in 2008, that Nelson Mandela was finally removed from the US terror list where he has been in existence since the 1980s. For these reasons, Mr President, the Western Party cannot agree with the Committee on Defence's proposal to support the main proposals contained in the communication.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-169	Mr President, I would like to There is no generally accepted definition of hybrid threats. Nevertheless, I think we can all agree that the threats exist, that they are real. It is actors acting in a legal border country who, through a combination of conventional and unconventional methods, try to influence an opponent to achieve specific objectives. The Russian annexation of Crimea is usually highlighted as an example in this context. But the hybrid threat can also be seen as a method to over time, and sometimes for a long time, influence an opponent in a certain direction. The fact that the hybrid threat is somewhat diffuse and a bit difficult to nail can be said to be problematic in any sense. At the same time, it actually makes it even more important to discuss and try to deal with it. It is the idea that we should be handcuffed and caught off guard by a hybrid operation that makes it a possible and perhaps even attractive alternative for an opponent. Mr President, I would like to These are essentially issues that have a national character, which is important to emphasise and which are also highlighted in the committee's opinion. It is particularly important in these times when several EU Member States are now quite actively pressing for much closer integration in the field of defence as well. The European Commission also notes that to the extent that countering hybrid threats concerns national security and defence, the primary responsibility lies with the Member States. However, many EU Member States face similar security challenges that may also focus on cross-border networks or infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to The government welcomes the European Commission's communication on a common framework to combat hybrid threats. The government has previously signalled that it is willing to cooperate in order to better understand the threats as the threats can be difficult to identify and often have a cross-border character but that this must be done on the basis of national ownership. There is a general need within the EU to raise awareness of hybrid threats, which is also the focus of the Communication. Specific areas highlighted are the need for strengthened resilience in cyber security, critical infrastructure, protection against illegal use of the financial system and action to counter violent extremism and radicalisation. We recognise several of these points. They are usually mentioned as important areas when we talk about the need to strengthen our own civil defence. The current defence decision mentions hybrid threats as a reality. It also provides for the resumption of total defence planning. At different levels of society, work is now under way to analyse how this decision should be taken further and materialised. Although it is early in this process, it should be clear that we as a society have a great and important job ahead of us. In so far as it is possible to gain knowledge from others through collaboration and exchange of experience, this is something that should be welcomed. With this, Mr President, I call for the statement to be added to the file.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-177	Mr President, I would like to It is always nice to come after Mr Olsson. Since you belong to a slightly larger party, you give a background with what you say. I do not need to repeat it and can therefore be a little more personal. I agree with pretty much everything, not to say everything, you said. There are many who believe that it is about the surface when we defend Sweden – that it is about pushing away people who come across the border in the air, on the water or under the water. That's right, and we can understand that. But this is about something that is both new and old: The tools are new, but the method is old. In a situation long before there is a warm war, you can engage in a half-war or hybrid war. This could be done in the past with fifth columnists, conspiracies and the famous horse. In addition, the horse has given its name to something that is now being used, namely Trojans that are being sent into the major systems. I agree with commenting on the cyber-attacks that have taken place, which will happen and against which we must defend ourselves. The purpose of these attacks is always to confuse, weaken and destabilise. They do not intend to kill, occupy or commit other types of war, but to make the person under attack weak. A changed and deteriorating security situation means that we need to raise awareness and resilience so that we understand what this type of attack could mean. It is an educational work that must be done in our own country and that must be done in the Union. The letter is a sign that this work has begun. The external and internal threats are interrelated and can be combined. It's about a mix of disinformation and rumor spread. We've had rumors in the past, some malignant, long before the computer's time. But it may now be new rumours that we do not really know where they come from combined with a cyberattack against some central newsroom, a payment system or a satellite monitoring system. This is something that causes concern to the citizens, and it means that we must be able to fight back against reputation campaigns and fifth columnists. If you want to speak imagery, resilience, as this is all about, is an attempt to have systems so stable that they can withstand stress. They should be able to take a punch, and then they should be able to stand up again. I usually try to look like this to the GB man – that ice cream man, you know – who stands outside the kiosks. If you hit a GB man or an important IT system, they should lie down and then stand up again as if nothing has happened. Another imagery that I use is that you should be like the Vietnamese bamboo: You should lie down flat when the hurricane comes, but then you rise again as if nothing has happened. It's the kind of IT systems we're going to have in the future. To achieve this, the Member States within the EU, and the EU itself, must work together for a common framework, and that is exactly what the letter contains. The threats are cross-border; it is enough just to think about trains, flights and satellites, water supply, energy and everything else that the letter says about. Since it must be combined with military defence, cooperation between the EU and NATO on these issues must be deepened. If this does not work, then much is in vain. There are two details that I find worrying. One is that we do not have a properly functioning internal market for cybersecurity companies and perhaps not for some other IT companies. It is a problem and we must work to remove the national barriers that exist in almost all Member States. The second is that – although I do not really know what to do about it – we need to face up to the fact that Europe is not capable of keeping an entire IT industry. We are dependent on large American companies. In other areas, as far as aircraft, fleet, army and other equipment are concerned, we have our own industry. But when it comes to defending cyberattacks and basic IT production, we are not entirely self-sufficient. The industry is also terribly fragmented. There is a need for an exchange of experience. Finally, Mr President, it is important that the national contact points function so that we report incidents in one place in each country and then have an exchange of information to see what conclusions can be drawn and what war might be involved in. I suggest, like many others, that the statement be added to the file.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-187	Mr President, I would like to Sweden and Europe are today facing bigger challenges than in a long time, with a security situation that has changed dramatically. We see Russia's actions in Ukraine and its illegal annexation of Crimea, and in the Baltic Sea region, attempts to destabilise strategies such as misinformation and cyber-attacks, the growing repression and abuse of human rights in Turkey, increasing authoritarian and fascist currents across Europe, peace and stability threatened at the EU's eastern and southern borders, violent extremism and terrorist acts. All of this takes place in our time, and it has given a new feeling of insecurity and political uncertainty. All of this has ended up in a radically different situation with the outcome of the American presidential election tonight. We have awakened to a new world. We do not yet know exactly what will happen and how the world will develop. But what we can at least say is that foreign and security policy uncertainty has rarely been so great. If the newly elected President of the United States succeeds in making a reality of the promises he has made, we are facing a global security order in rocking. Will the United States conclude in foreign and security policy terms, as Trump has indicated? Will NATO be weakened? How will European security be guaranteed? The American elections will have massive global repercussions. There is a clear risk that a significant security policy vacuum will arise. These vacuums will be filled. Mr President, I would like to Putin, Erdo中an, Assad, Le Pen – they all now feel wind in the sails. There can be no doubt about that. It's a new world we're waking up to. Let us hope now, and above all: let us together do everything we can to ensure that it is not a world that is so much more dangerous than the one we have seen in recent generations! We need to be sensitive now. We must stand up for a clear democratic and solidarity-based foundation of values. We must work for a stable progressivity. Moreover, what happens in the forthcoming French and German elections will define Europe's future. After Brexit, we can no longer take anything for granted. The European order, as we know it, may be on the verge of cracking. With Marine Le Pen in the French presidency, the collapse would most likely be given additional power. We in Sweden cannot naively believe that this development is something that only happens over there. There is a real and growing authoritarian threat here at home too. As we have become increasingly aware, what is called hybrid threats has everything to do with what I have listed. We saw what happened in connection with the U.S. presidential election when high-ranking democrats' email servers were hacked. Today, the threats to democracy, peace and stability are not primarily military, where an armed enemy crosses the borders of a country to attack, a regular war. The more complex reality, with these hybrid threats now emerging, must be taken seriously. This is a real challenge for our security and stability. And that places new demands on our defence and security policy. Mr President, I would like to Managing hybrid threats is primarily a matter for each country. However, because threats can often be cross-border in nature, cooperation between countries is important. We'll be able to address them together. International crime often moves across national borders, preparations for acts of terrorism as well. The EU has an important role to play, not least as regards the exchange of information. But we also need better interaction between a wide range of actors, especially public authorities, and at different levels of society. The Green Party therefore welcomes the European Commission's communication on a common framework to combat hybrid threats. However, we would like to emphasise that increased cooperation must not mean more militarisation. We do not share the view expressed on several occasions by the President of the Commission, Mr Jean-Claude. We should not have a common European army. We have made that clear, both here at home and in the European Union. A number of measures are needed to counter hybrid threats. We must allow expertise, as well as public awareness, to increase in Sweden. Emergency preparedness needs to be increased, not least the capability of civil defence. IT security needs to be strengthened. And the resilience of society in terms of energy, water and food safety needs to be strengthened.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-197	Mr President, Members of Parliament and audience! Hybrid threats and hybrid warfare are concepts that more and more people understand and try to analyse the meanings and consequences of. We face it in different ways. We have met it largely in connection with security policy developments, in our part of the world but also globally. More and more people are engaging in this type of interference or motivated efforts to get others to adapt. The definition will probably change continuously, depending on how hybrid threats develop and what methods are used. It is important to think about what our citizens, institutions and companies face on a day like this, snowy day – when the lights go out, when the computer screen turns black or the signalling system malfunctions when you are on a train somewhere in Central Sweden. You may not be able to pay your bills through the IT system. When you read the newspaper, on paper or online, you may begin to think about what it actually says under the heading. What message is there in communication with us readers? This may involve television broadcasting or a number of requests via social media. People want to have new contacts or develop dialogue on certain issues, to shape a new experience of what our world looks like today, but also to shape a message that can lead to a change in development. We need to understand these events in a deeper way. We need to work much more to understand what this is about in practice. We are now faced with a total defence plan. The whole of Swedish society, civil and military, shall be included in it. It is about important actors that we have in Sweden, but also in the country at municipal and regional level. There, many different impact activities could be carried out. Our municipal decision-makers need to get an insight into this. They need to understand what activities this can be about and how it can affect the local everyday life of Swedish citizens. A common framework between Member States is needed to tackle the growing threats. It is also important to have constructive and critical thinking about the different methods that we will choose together, to strengthen ourselves and to face the future. As a Tvetabo and former Säffle politician, I think we have a huge opportunity here. It can contribute to more exchanges between municipalities, in Sweden but also in different EU countries, so that we can learn from each other how to think about practical solutions to meet hybrid threats. We simply need more European projects. And we need to synchronise this with the overall plans of the nations and the local level. With current developments in security policy, it would be a great pity to say no to such developed cooperation. Sweden will definitely do what we can to strengthen our way of working at home. It's part of total defense planning. It is part of the defence decision and its implementation. But we also need to work with our friends in Europe. We know that the security situation is changing and that there are open conflicts in our neighbourhood. But we cannot always assess how hybrid threats are realised. What agendas really lie behind the authority of our society today? What hidden purposes are there? What strategy affects the way we think about, relate to and understand our neighbours, not least in the east where the work has been going on for a long time? The misinformation is a reality. Propaganda warfare is a concept that is both workable and dangerous in practice. We also see an increasing number of populist forces gaining more and more influence in Europe and the rest of the world. The issues put on the agenda can be changed quickly. The Center Party supports the fact that collateral is best built together with others. This work, within the framework of EU cooperation, is part of best building security together with others. And we need political leadership that takes this seriously, from the highest European level out into every village team. Our society needs resilience. If you compare what Sweden looks like today with what it looked like at the end of the Cold War, there is a difference in how we will manage to protect the worthy objects we have. At that time 8,000 of them were mentioned throughout the country. If it takes a couple of people out of our home guard or others to protect those objects, we can easily figure out that today there are people missing who do that task. There are many different types of protective objects we are talking about, and they are in the eye of hybrid warfare. We need to lay a foundation now and prepare ourselves for how best to prepare together, to manage, individually and together with other countries, impact campaigns and direct attacks on individual systems, facilities and also decision-making processes. This work is extremely important. So far, we have only seen the beginning of the consequences for our country. Collaboration is the basis. This reality needs to be met by many different methods. It also requires priorities and the allocation of funds in future budgetary decisions to ensure that the methods and tools are in place in the country. We know that knowledge varies. One of the 22 points highlighted in the framework is to build a knowledge bank and that more people will understand the reality of hybrid threats. Mr President, I would like to Hybrid warfare is usually described in eight different stages. The first four are non-military and the next four steps are more military in character. There is talk of a grey area, not least in the Ukraine conflict and the beginning of it. The public opinion, propaganda, and information that was spread affected people's experience of the situation and their beliefs and values. Then it turns to both civilian and military pressure, creating many different forms of dependence. In the next step, propaganda is increased and resistance is eliminated. It is crucial that we can handle these types of processes to different extents, large and small. Therefore, all proposed measures need to be problematized, implemented and implemented in our collective social apparatus. Although NATO now has a leadership with Stoltenberg at the forefront that changes with the presidential election, NATO is an important player in Swedish security policy and Swedish defence cooperation. The fact that it is included as a point in the framework programme shows the importance of the EU and NATO building security in our region. The desire to approach hybrid threats is extremely positive. Two parties now choose to vote against and not support this in this House. On the basis of the positions expressed in the reservations, one might wonder what the alternative is. The Swedish Democrats describe it as the EU and NATO to deepen their cooperation in delivering joint propaganda. It would be very interesting to hear how the Swedish Democrats explain what they mean by their wording. How do the EU and NATO conduct joint propaganda? The Swedish Democrats also say that they are safeguarding our right to decide and our right to build partnerships with other sovereign states outside the EU framework. I would like to ask: can the Swedish Democrats give an example of this with other sovereign states outside the EU framework? Which countries do the Swedish Democrats want to build cooperation with? We know that there are very strong links with Russia, among others. Is it a country that is included in this formulation? Mr President, I would like to There are many different perspectives related to hybrid threats and how to deal with them. I want us to move on to this proposal and to prioritise it in the forthcoming overall defence planning.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-217	Mr President, I would like to We agree, Daniel, that this should be added to the file. We're not that far apart. You, the majority of committees, are behind most of this. It can be said that we also support it, but much more so because it contains so much doubt. I have an honest question for you. You criticise the propaganda from the East, that is, from Russia, for being misleading and disinformative. That's absolutely true. I am so fascinated by this naivety in the face of Western propaganda. But what is the reality? The whole Iraq war was based on misinformation about weapons of mass destruction. Two weeks ago, the British Parliament produced a report on the Libyan war, which showed how many different lies were presented to bring England into the war. This is repeated time and again. But we're even going to join NATO Stratcom. Sure, you can learn from the best – if you want to put it cleverly – but that can't be the intention. Now we are in the hybrid war, and now we have Donald Trump as President and in the splendor of the commander-in-chief of NATO. He's made the hybrid war a major part of his election campaign. He has used so many revealing lies, but was still elected. My thinking is therefore: do you see any problem at all with us becoming increasingly involved in a structure that also uses misinformation as a tool for its political and military purposes?
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-222	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson points out a perspective here that in practice it would be a very active propaganda warfare from the West. It would be desirable for Mr Stig to be able to give a more concrete account of the way in which our partner countries are engaged in this. Clearly, you should be equally critical of thinking whether it is east or west, or Sweden for that matter. Our society must be based on transparency and clarity. We must also have a clear ability to review the messages that are sent to but also formulated in Sweden. There is no doubt that there are strategies to formulate messages from the East that we are going to take on board. It is extremely important that we take the overall picture seriously. There are about twenty other states actively engaged in intelligence against our country. Nor do we know whether they are state or non-constitutional groups. The image that we would not join NATO and deepen our cooperation is also a way of halting development. We are in favour of Sweden working closer to the EU countries and also joining NATO. We need it in order to stabilise our neighbourhood and clarify today's reality where we increasingly need a defence capability in our region that stands up to the threat from the East.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-226	Mr President, I would like to I just gave you two concrete examples. The whole Iraq war was based on misinformation. It can't be unknown today. The whole Libyan war, according to the British parliamentary report, was based on misinformation to get the resolution through the Security Council. Is there something going on in Turkey that is not a coup d'état, but from the government? It imprisons parliamentarians, closes newspaper offices and restricts freedom of the press. And we will cooperate with Turkey in NATO! We share our Euro-Atlantic values, it is said. What Euro-Atlantic values are common to Sweden, to you, to Erdo an and to Donald Trump? According to the document that you are essentially behind, there should be increased cooperation between the EU and NATO, and that is an important factor in enhancing security against hybrid threats. It's almost fun, if it wasn't so sad. Furthermore, I can agree with you on one point that you raised – to be a little positive – and that is our poor preparedness for cyber-attacks. It has been made sad little. It is now nine years ago that the Swedish National Audit Office conducted a study that showed that the civil authorities were terribly poorly equipped. A follow-up seven years later states that nothing had happened, at least not in the field of defence. However, a great deal has happened with exposure and our dependence on these systems. However, I do not see the point in us starting to cooperate more with NATO in this context. If you could explain that point to me, I'd be grateful.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-230	Mr President, I would like to Just go back and listen to what Tony Blair, former leader of the United Kingdom, recently said linked to the efforts that had been made in the framework of NATO cooperation. If there are activities that involve untruth, there is nothing that I support, no matter who is acting in that direction. Each country must examine itself and the collaborations it forms part of. Tony Blair's statement testified that he was thoughtful and evaluated his actions as leaders on the basis of the measures taken. It is also necessary to look at the overall assessment and what is needed to address the challenges that are now being addressed and which are also a fact. Our overall assessment shows that the benefits are imminent, but we will also think critically about all the different methods that will be proposed or used to implement the 22 proposals for action in cooperation between the EU and the EU countries. These are important issues that are highlighted. It is a question of raising awareness, of setting up, within the framework of the European Union Intelligence Analysis Centre, a hybrid threat unit capable of analysing classified information, of developing more strategic communication, of setting up a centre of excellence capable of learning more about what hybrid threats mean in practice, of organising ourselves together, of looking at energy cooperation beyond the borders of the nations, of creating transport security and of working on defence capabilities, where we are already part of many cooperations. Not least, it is about the cybersecurity that Stig Henriksson mentions. It is also about the private side. Industry is an extremely important partner on many issues in these areas. Together, we need to build resilience and strategies in order to have a more sustainable and resilient society facing the threats.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-234	Madam President, I would like We are debating the joint framework for combating hybrid threats. But before I get into the statement, I want to talk about something that I think is connected with today's topic. Stockholm has today been affected by snowstorms. Outside the windows in the Riksdag we see how it literally pours down snow, and we see that the preparedness is unfortunately not as good as one would hope. Bus traffic is basically stationary in Stockholm, and much is not working. These are really the issues that the opinion touches upon – a common framework to combat hybrid threats. The opinion is about the threats we see to society that are not snowstorms, nor pure wars, but other kinds of threats. It's about cyber threats, cyber attacks, psychological warfare and misinformation. This is as tangible as the snow storm and affects our authorities daily. We can hear reports of cyber attacks. In the worst case, if they succeed fully, they can cause an infinite amount of damage. The committee has examined the proposal from the European Commission for a common framework to combat hybrid threats. We in the committee are in the main in favour of the proposal and we propose that the opinion be added to the file. Let me go into some important things when it comes to social security for Swedish citizens. The Swedish Armed Forces are part of society. There are so many resources and competences that could be much more helpful in different types of stress. Why this does not happen in full is due, among other things, to a lack of collaboration in Sweden today. It's a lot of drain pipes. Various government agencies and agencies want their own resources and find it difficult to work together, including collaboration with the Swedish Armed Forces. There is much to be done here to increase civil resilience to different types of disasters. Then there was the question of cybersecurity. There is a real threat to society. In some cases there may be very serious consequences, perhaps as serious as a military attack. If the ability to meet different types of cyber attacks is lacking, only the threat of such an attack can lead to the government or NGOs having to bow to the will of outsiders. Here we have a challenge. The responsibility for cyber security is today divided into a number of different authorities. It should be an authority that would be given the main responsibility. Then there is the question of psychological defence. Several other speakers have taken a clear example. During Russia's annexation of Crimea, we saw clear examples of this type of hybrid warfare being used more than before. The fact that Russia had such doubts as to who did what, when it was done and how it was done, could effectively mislead the outside world and make decision-making more difficult. This was a conscious and thorough approach to disseminating disinformation and creating uncertainty among both decision-makers and public opinion. It is only to be noted that Sweden is vulnerable to this kind of information warfare. It's like a form of continuous whispering where you don't know what was said from the beginning or who said what. There are also clear examples of how Russia, through intimidation, has tried to persuade countries to make or not make decisions, thus directing countries' political debate. There is something we can do here, namely to restore the authority that existed before and which is currently within MSB. It's about the former Board of Psychological Defense. The committee needs to look at this issue to see if it can be a way of strengthening resilience – resilience. That is the resilience of the proposals, and they are the ones that are added to the documents. We, the Christian Democrats, have chosen to raise these issues.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-244	Madam President, I would like I was so fascinated. I was critical in my speech that the concept of hybrid threats is so nebulöst – more than the sky out there. When you even include diplomacy as an example, you can wonder if it is like the Bofink, that it can look like a harrow. I was a moment of anxiety when Mikael Oscarsson began by including snowfall in the threats of hybrid threats. I thought that it now bears hands, but then I realized that it was an example of another kind of threat. Disinformation is not war. One should not use the word war about misinformation, among other things because it is wrong. In war, people die, but they don't die of lies. In that case, the U.S. electorate would by now be heavily decimated. You're supposed to be gentle with words. I would like to ask Mikael Oscarsson a simple question. I don't want an example of hybrid war without a definition. What defines hybrid threats?
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-248	Madam President, I would like Stig Henriksson asks a question about misinformation. Quite rightly, it is not war. But disinformation is the hybrid threat. What we saw in Crimea was not the traditional type of war. Little green men with no names came ashore. Disinformation was part of the warfare. The power supply was shut down. We need to address these new threats around the world. What we're discussing is part of it. The proposal developed at European level on resilience, resilience, is excellent. But I am convinced that we must also do our homework ourselves. There are so many flaws. Civil defence in particular, but also military defence, is under the ice and needs to be strengthened. There we now see that there are major shortcomings. If we are to be able to defend Sweden against both hybrid threats and military threats, we need to make a substantial effort at the Swedish Armed Forces. In the defence agreement that has been reached, there are substantial and real additions, but we must take more steps. We cannot be content with what we have done. There is reason to see that, just as a military threat is dangerous, hybrid warfare is a real threat to Sweden. That is something for which we must be prepared and for which we have a responsibility to secure our people.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-251	Madam President, I would like I really agree with Mikael Oscarsson on one thing, and that is that we should do the homework ourselves. We have an enormous amount of work to do there. There are areas of cooperation we can have, although I think this communication is so unclear and unclear that it is difficult to know whether it is something that will ultimately be good or not. On the other hand, increasing cooperation with NATO to combat hybrid threats is – if I may borrow an image language that Mikael Oscarsson may be familiar with – to make the goat a herb garden master. Sure, we can find many examples of disinformation campaigns. Basically, every war starts with that. But I am surprised that the truly great disasters for humanity, the refugee situation and such things are never mentioned in this context. The weapons of mass destruction claimed to justify the invasion of Iraq that led to 600 000 deaths and millions on the run were found. The British parliamentary report on the Libyan war was based on the findings. Why not include it and analyse whether we should cooperate with countries and organisations that spread such lies? Kennan Institute, named after George F. Kennan, who basically invented the Cold War, should not be suspected of being too biased on behalf of Russia. The Institute believes that this is an unusable concept. Again, Mikael Oscarsson : What is the definition of hybrid threats?
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-256	Madam President, I would like It is clear that Stig Henriksson does not like NATO. He and his party also do not like the cooperation that Sweden now has with NATO in Riga, which is about precisely disinformation. But I believe that the Swedish people are of a completely different opinion. I believe that the Swedish people appreciate the cooperation we have and that we are close partners with NATO. One must also be realistic, Stig Henriksson. Sweden is not going to make it on its own. We have a military defence, but it has turned out that it is a matter of days how long we manage ourselves. There has been a terrible double standard in this country and in this House. We have all hoped in some way that NATO will be there in the event of a crisis. The cooperation we have with NATO is therefore good, but that is not enough. It needs to evolve. That's why the cooperation we have in Riga is great. But we're going to create security. That's what was so important about the investigation that Krister Bringéus did. It came to what? Yes, that a Swedish NATO membership would be conflict retention. This would strengthen the security of both Sweden and our neighbouring countries. Stig Henriksson! When you visit the Baltic next time, ask people what they think! Ask them about the fear they feel about what is happening in Russia and Ukraine. Ask! You'll see that you get the answer that this is real. They also wonder why Sweden has such a double standard. It is time for Sweden to seek membership of NATO as soon as possible.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-261	Madam President, I would like The theme of today's debate on hybrid threats, just as Dag Klackenberg was at work, can be linked all the way back to the Trojan horse. But it is clear that the urgency of the issue has been reinforced by the deteriorating security policy developments in the EU's southern and eastern neighbourhood. It has given the issue renewed topicality. Europe is now surrounded by wildfire of tensions, conflicts and crises from the Mediterranean in the south to the Caucasus in the east and the Arctic Ocean in the north. Not since the end of the Cold War have the security policy challenges for Europe been as difficult and as serious as they are today. On the basis of the deteriorating security situation, to which we must relate, I believe that there are at least two horizontal issues to consider when dealing with the communication of the European Commission on hybrid threats and which the Commission should take with it in the further work. Firstly, the definition of what constitutes a hybrid threat is very broad in communication. The aim is, of course, to be able to adapt to new threats and changing threats. However, if there are no clear boundaries and concentrations of resources, there is a risk of power fragmentation. Every effort must be made on the basis of having the greatest benefit and resource focus. I believe that the Commission communication would benefit from prioritising among the 22 different proposals for action against hybrid threats. Secondly, hybrid threats are very different in the south and the east, and different measures are needed to respond to them. In the east, the issue is mainly linked to Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and its continued aggression against Ukraine. Russia managed to act in the grey zone between total peace and total war. It was possible to use rapid decision-making and surprise elements and carry out an illegal annexation of Crimea. We also know that both the EU and NATO were largely caught up in the rapid events, and there was confusion about what happened on the ground. One lesson to learn from this, as the Commission's communication also takes note of, is that we need to train and train rapid decision-making mechanisms in major intergovernmental organisations such as the EU and NATO. Another dimension linked to the threat from the east is a clearer military dimension. It underlines the role of NATO in the European security regime, which Russia is now challenging by failing to respect other countries' security policy choices or territorial integrity. It is therefore excellent that NATO is now strengthening its presence in north-eastern Europe. It is also good to work with broader security issues, which we have been into before: cybersecurity, rapid response capabilities and strategic communication. In the south, hybrid threats look different. There, the threats and risks come mainly from civil war, international terrorism and radicalisation. The consequences have been seen in the form of terrorist attacks in Germany, Belgium and Denmark, which have been inspired or governed by the Islamic State. Here countermeasures are not military, but rather linked to police and judicial cooperation and cooperation between security services, and it is the EU rather than NATO that is the main player. In the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to the Committee on Defence, we have taken note of the need to strengthen measures against the financing of hybrid threats by creating a better capacity to combat money laundering, by means of action plans against terrorism and by means of European cooperation against radicalisation. Finally, Madam President, I believe that there are two things that we should take with us and that should permeate the further work on hybrid threats. The first is the strong link that actually exists between internal and external security through both the common security and defence policy within the EU and justice and home affairs, but also through the fact that what is happening outside our borders is increasingly affecting us. As long as we have a neighbourhood characterised by extremism, radicalisation and weak state formations, we cannot achieve long-term stability and security here at home. Secondly, although action against hybrid threats is primarily a national matter, as previous speakers have highlighted, we need more international cooperation. It is about bilateral cooperation, but also about the role of the EU and NATO in these contexts. We know that both the EU and NATO play irreplaceable roles in strengthening European security policy. They also have the ability to complement each other. Close coordination between the EU and NATO can also ensure that there is no unnecessary duplication of the work that needs to be done to strengthen our countries against hybrid threats. Madam President, I therefore support the committee's proposal to add the communication to the document.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-275	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. I got some questions from the Center Party, for example about what the alternative looks like. Then I turn to the question: we were quite in agreement in the opinion on adding this to the file – that we do not believe that the EU should be militarised. But if you're going to talk about the alternative, it should be national. It should be part of civil defence, to which we are budgeting money. The Center Party doesn't. In the defence decision, we agreed that the military defence does not work at all without the civil defence. Then we should budget for civil defence so that we can start creating it. It will take time, as will the re-armament of military defence. We are therefore budgeting for civil defence, and I would welcome the fact that the Center Party has woken up on this point. The EU material shows that it mixes civil and military components in intelligence. We find that frightening. We do not want to be involved in this. There was also a question from the Center Party about our strong links and links with Russia. For me, this is a puzzling question. What kind of strong bond would that be? Is it that we believe that the Swedish Government should have good diplomatic contacts with Russia, that we should work for relaxation in the Baltic Sea region and that we should strengthen our defence? Is there something wrong with that? Is that what the Center Party thinks? They talk often and in many contexts about hybrid threats and cyber threats; I have heard that for years. But you don't land in wanting to strengthen the defense. We have a situation now where the government increases the defence budget in fixed amounts by 1 billion a year. So it will take 50 years before we reach 2% of GDP. That's not enough. If we then link it to the fact that we are not developing civil defence at all, we are not taking this seriously. Then I have answered the Center Party's two questions. The proposals for action in the current proposal are clear intermediate steps in order to transfer power from Member States to the EU. We Swedish democrats are very serious about the hybrid threats. At the same time, the proposed measures appear to be an attempt by the EU to extend its powers and infringe national affairs, with reference to these threats. Managing and responding to hybrid threats is ultimately a national responsibility, and the EU should not be militarised, nor should it be supported to lay the foundations of any European military or police intelligence service. Speaking time does not allow me to go into detail in each area, but let me highlight one of the problematic proposals in the text. Action proposal 18 includes proposals for the use of Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) instruments and missions. It therefore wants to place even more responsibility under the CSDP.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-284	Madam President, I would like Mikael Jansson and I can agree that there is too little money allocated to national defence, but that is also the only point on which we agree. We, on behalf of the Moderates, have entered into an agreement. Now we are holding it, and then there will be a new defence agreement – we will see what happens there. But what I absolutely do not understand is the arguments of the Swedish Democrats that there should be no cooperation within the Union on these issues. There are few things that are as cross-border as shipping, flights, payments, transport, the search for criminals and comparative statistics – everything speaks well for cooperation in the Union. This cannot be solved on its own. There is an abyss gap between the views of the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats on Europe, and I very much hope that you will catch up. You can't have this Gustav Vasa community anymore.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-286	Madam President, I would like Comparing statistics in this way can be done intergovernmentally. We don't mind. But that has nothing to do with the establishment of a mixed military and civilian intelligence service within the EU and militarisation of the EU. Those of you who think NATO is good, listen to what the NATO countries are saying about the possibility of militarising the EU! Is the EU good enough for that? Are the EU institutions fit for militarisation? The NATO countries are laughing at it. That is not a way forward at all.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-287	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mikael Jansson for the answers to his speech. However, I would like to repeat the question: Which states are Mikael Jansson and the Swedish Democrats prepared to contribute to Sweden's active cooperation in preventing and counteracting hybrid threats? The wording of your reservation on today's dossier is that we safeguard our own decision-making rights and our own ability to build cooperation with other sovereign states outside the EU framework. The Swedish Democrats often mention Finland. Finland and Sweden are part of the EU, and I understand that Finland also agrees that this is an important area in which cooperation and cooperation can be developed. Of course, each nation should have its own ability. For the Center Party, which is one of five parties that have been involved in deciding on the defence orientation from 2016 to 2020, it is important that the now resumed total defence planning also includes a strong civil defence, a psychological defence and an ability throughout the country to understand at all levels and in all organisations what hybrid threats really mean. But cooperation between the military and the civilian must also be developed, and the question of resources will come back to us. There are various steps in the investigation work going on after the defense decision and also a dialogue between these five parties, including the government parties, on the increase in ambition and budgeting in the future. However, the question remains: which countries do you want to work with?
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-291	Madam President, I would like It is no secret that we want to see a defence alliance between Sweden and Finland, and we want it to be realized soon. Setting a timetable for this would really be good for increasing the Swedish threshold effect and defence capabilities. Which countries can Sweden cooperate with intergovernmentally to exchange information that has a security policy significance? Yes, it is all countries and Interpol, for example. There are no obstacles to exchanging information if we benefit from it for our safety. I'm tired of talking about hybrid threats but not spending any money on defense. Talking about hybrid threats doesn't help. We must invest money in civil defence and build it up, and it will take time. It will take years to recreate a civil defense. If you don't put a crown on it, it'll never happen. And what are hybrid threats? It is absolutely not something new; it has always existed. World wars, for example, were hybrid wars from start to finish, trying to deceive each other in different ways. We had in our old civil defense techniques to solve this. The effective level available is the national level – plus cooperation with other countries. We are not against it; it would be very foolish to be against it. But you also have to look at the EU's paper. When the EU plans to take over more power to create meaningless and inefficient organisations – monstrous organisations that cannot produce an effect – we must look at it in the papers and say no. I think the Secretary of Defense actually does that from time to time.
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-296	Madam President, I would like On the basis of what the Swedish Democrats are presenting, it is clear that they choose to stay out of a cooperation that could provide a much more effective way of dealing with the threats, which today is a reality and which is increasing in scope. You can read on in the reservation. The Swedish Democrats write: We believe that we are moving here in a grey area, where we feel that the Swedish people are being misled. That is an extremely interesting description of this dossier. This, in turn, can be interpreted as part of a hybrid formulation. In what way do the Swedish Democrats feel that the people of Sweden are being misled? It is important to speak clearly and not to hymn with what you want to achieve and with whom, writes the Swedish Democrats. That's good. For our part, we support the need for robustness and cooperation that is developing and that can deal with the internal tensions that may exist in relations between different countries. But in what way do the Swedish democrats problematize the hybrid threat as a reality today? We often end up in the military, but can the Swedish Democrats and Mikael Jansson give examples of concrete incidents or scenarios that are currently being developed with hybrid warfare or hybrid threats?
i-5f6928d7bc19b7e1-300	Madam President, I would like Yes, of course there are hybrid threats and that it includes the dissemination of false information. It surrounds all the wars we now see around the world. Almost all the information around them is false. Even we Swedes have learned that you cannot trust the information that comes from Russia or the USA or any other country when they are at war. They will then have to make their warfare more effective, and apparently these techniques will come out. How do we take this seriously? Yeah, we're budgeting money to build civil defense. It will take a number of years to build civil defence. But you don't put a penny on it, so you'll never see any civil defense. Then you have to choose. This is puzzling for the Swedish people, because we are in fact in agreement. We have said that this should be a national matter. Well, I guess that's in the statement, so we're in agreement. But you are saying that it should not be so, but that Europe should have this. We are going to invest this money in the EU basket instead. Isn't that right? Okay. It's your choice. What we think is most effective is to develop this nationally, but then, of course, to have interfaces and contacts with other countries to exchange information on our interests. Civil defence should be built up. That is paragraph 1(a). You can't walk around it.
i-9MRcqoy3fvQwtH2VrWzNas	Madam President, I would like We have submitted a follow-up motion in connection with the letter Accounting for the distribution of funds from the General Succession Fund in the financial year 2015. In this follow-up motion, we stress that it is important that the funds distributed by the General Heritage Fund be used in accordance with the guidelines that exist for the succession fund. Since there are many organisations that receive funds from the Fund that have links to different expressions of faith as well as to other countries, it is very important to work actively to ensure that the funds that are distributed are in no way at risk of favouring any form of terrorism or other extreme activity that could harm Sweden. Since there are relatively large sums of money distributed annually from the Fund, these funds could potentially do great harm if they are at risk of being used to contribute to or promote terrorism in any way. That is why we are in favour of our reservation.
i-61SoNQZ5DEY9McPaGk4Jy1	Madam President, I would like This report deals with the distribution of funds from the General Heritage Fund last year. In Sweden there are many good ideas, but there is often a lack of money. The General Heritage Fund supports the involvement of associations and organisations that have good ideas for the priority groups: children, young people and people with disabilities. Over 9 000 projects have been supported by the General Heritage Fund since 1970. The projects are of all sizes, and they are spread throughout the country. The general inheritance fund is managed by Kammarkollegiet as a special fund. They distribute about SEK 650 million a year. Sixty-five per cent of the funds granted in 2015 were allocated to sparsely populated and regional projects. A report on the projects that have been granted funding is presented to the Riksdag each year. The projects are also reviewed annually by an authorised auditor. Madam President, I would like A delegation of six members – there are people from various interest organisations and people from the Government Office – meet seven times a year with Chairman Håkan Ceder. The tasks of the Fund delegation include a comprehensive strategy for the monitoring and evaluation of aid granted. To strengthen governance, there is now a controller function that controls how the money is used both internally and externally. The administrator also carries out checks on the use of the project funds by having a dialogue on the projects. The projects are followed on the website. Visits are also made to the places where the projects are carried out. The funds are mainly given to non-profit organisations. Organisations and associations supported by the General Heritage Fund shall report on the project after each completed project year. On the website you can follow all the projects that have received money during the duration of the projects. Right now there are 670 active projects on the website to follow. Administrators also travel around the country and inform about the possibility to apply for funds from the Swedish National Heritage Fund. A number of researchers are associated with this. They evaluate a number of projects and see what the results have been and what the money has given. Madam President, I would like Two motions have been filed. One comes from the Center Party. It may be added that a similar exercise was submitted two years ago, and it was rejected. The Center Party believes that the funds should not be managed centrally by Kammarkollegiet, but should be done at regional level. It believes that funds do not reach the regions at all, which is quite wrong. In the exercise, it is written that you want to review whether the handling is functional and achieves the expected results. Yes, but there are regulations and working methods that always handle this, before the project period, during the project period and after the project period. The Center Party continues that it is important that funds are given to organisations that survive after the project period. Yes, if you read on, as you should do, you can see that 55% of the projects live on. That's a high number. The motion continues with the need to review who should be the beneficiaries of support in the future. This, too, seems to me to be an extremely poor knowledge, because the government is constantly reviewing this and is setting new targets every year. There are currently 12 priority areas for 2016. It feels very important to have a national approach so that the assessment of how to distribute this big money is similar across the country. The Swedish Democrats were not interested in anything but their own debate but walked away. In his motion, it is written this way:.It is important that the funds distributed by the Swedish National Heritage Fund are used in accordance with the guidelines that exist for the inheritance fund. ..................................................... It's a tricky writing, I think. It goes without saying that regulations should be followed, and what I have listed before shows that there are both suspenders and life belt in this regard. The Swedish Democrats continue to say that it is very important to work actively to ensure that the funds that are being distributed are not in danger of benefiting in any way any form of terrorism or other extreme activity. This too is an obvious statement. Is there anyone here in the Swedish Parliament who is of a different opinion, faith? In our country, with today's government, there is no reason to believe that mandates would exist to provide terrorist groups with funds from the Public Heritage Fund. I would have liked to have asked the representative of the Swedish Democrats if there were examples of this. There are twelve target areas for activities this year that we consider important, and they are particularly relevant in these times. One of the objectives is to increase participation and democracy, something that is incredibly important. It is also about preventing violence, bullying and harassment, which is always the case. It is also to increase equality and equality, which is unfortunately still equally topical, and to strengthen the conditions for the reception and establishment of new arrivals. These are objectives that I expect the Swedish Democrats to support as well. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
