i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-3	Mr President, I would like to In 1988 Sweden received current animal welfare legislation. It was delivered by the then Prime Minister on Astrid Lindgren's birthday as a gift. What was most noted at the time was that the cages of chickens should be banned. That was also the case, but it took 16 years after various exemptions. The cages are still there, even if they're something nicer. But they're no larger than 0.06 square meters per animal anyway. This says something about how complex it can be to change regulations. It is now 2016 and ours. It is therefore high time for cat owners to start catproofing their balconies. It should also be high time for new animal welfare legislation. Since 2011, a government investigation with the appropriate name New Animal Welfare Act has been on the table of various governments. Exactly what the bourgeois and red-green governments have done is somewhat unclear, but no legislative proposal has yet been delivered. Because of this, this report and this debate may not be quite as exciting as one might wish for. We are still waiting for the proposal for new animal welfare legislation to come. It is clear that this new socialist government does not give higher priority to animal welfare than the bourgeois government did. On the part of the Swedish Democrats, we believe that there is a great need for a new animal welfare legislation to be put in place as quickly as possible. We share the investigator's ambition that animal welfare work should be more goal-driven than regulation-driven, without compromising the high ambitions they have for Swedish animal welfare. We think that is a very good starting point. It is my hope that we can now expect the bill to come in the autumn and that there will be no further delays. Mr President, I would like to A question that can be linked to this concerns the debate that has revolved around control programmes, which have been criticised by several animal welfare organisations. Concerns are understandable. At the same time, it is important to emphasise a few things. Individual rules are not the basis for stronger animal protection, but the basis must be animal welfare. Working to modernise the regulatory framework and to include the industry in the development of methods to improve animal welfare is positive. Thus, the Swedish democrats see no problem with control programmes, but consider them an asset. They can help to increase control, in addition to the control that the county administrative boards are carrying out today. It is very important to emphasise that control programmes must never contribute to reducing animal welfare. In addition, there are many important proposals in the study for new animal welfare legislation. When it comes to pet animals, various measures are proposed to increase the status of cats and other pet animals. It is a very important piece of work in which the investigation, just as we in our reservation, advocate a ban on abandoning animals. In addition, proposals include labelling requirements, age limits, skills, bans on harmful breeding, etc. It will be a delicate task, hopefully this autumn, to decide how far to go when the possibilities for control are somewhat limited while new legislation can help change standards and raise the status of animals and thus also improve animal welfare in Sweden. We will have every reason to come back to these issues in the autumn. Mr President, I would like to We have animal welfare to be proud of. At the same time, we must recognise that there is great potential for improvement and that some other countries have actually caught up with Sweden in this area. There are also many threats to which one must not turn a blind eye and which one must understand. We have farmers struggling with a problematic situation on the world market, and it is not surprising that some focus from the industry today is also being placed on problematizing Swedish animal welfare. It is not possible to get away from the fact that strong Swedish animal welfare is good for the animals here in Sweden, but it also leads to our farmers getting it tough to compete in an open and free market. As a strong supporter of free trade and a market economy, one must look somewhat differently at this particular competitive situation. Countries that protect animal welfare lose out, and countries that do not care so much are winners. Unfortunately, because of our EU membership, we also have limited opportunities to fully compensate our producers for the competitive disadvantage they have today. Nor is it always easy to argue that low-paid families with children should pay more for Swedish meat products when we have municipalities and county councils that buy chicken from Thailand where both animals and working people have a, at least by Swedish standards, terrible existence. Despite all this, we can see today that the consumption of Swedish meat has increased and that the prices of several meat products have risen. It is a positive and trend-breaking development. I would like to emphasise that we must continue to work towards strengthening Swedish animal welfare while working to increase the competitiveness of producers. That's where the focus needs to be. Instead of focusing on a weakened Swedish animal welfare policy, my hope is that the focus will be placed on the too low welfare payments, on a poor entrepreneurial policy from the red-green government that makes it difficult to conduct business in this country and on taxes and other charges that hit very hard on the farmers. If we can get to grips with these things, there should not be as great a conflict between a living and prosperous Swedish animal production and an even stronger animal welfare. We must also be better at pointing out the difference that Swedish animal welfare actually makes for animals. The fact that we have strong Swedish animal welfare does not only mean higher costs. It also means direct competitive advantage over other countries' production, as informed people actually care about animals. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 to be approved in this report.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-15	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating a matter called animal welfare. I hope that in future politicians in this House, when they debate issues relating to the treatment of animals, will conduct the debate under the name of animal rights. Basically, this is what this debate should be about – that animals should also have certain fundamental rights that we humans should respect. In fact, I think there is a basis for this reasoning in our Swedish Animal Welfare Act, where § 4 states that all animals kept in agriculture should have the possibility of natural behaviour. If our animals in the food industry, minks and others should have the right to natural behaviour, I think we can look at these activities one by one and ask ourselves the question: How well can the 1 million minks kept in minimal metal wire cages perform their natural behavior? We know that a mink in the open moves over large areas to seek shade, cool in water on hot days, find food and explore the surroundings. How is a mink supposed to perform the important behavior of such a small cage? I claim that the breeding of these 1 million minks in Sweden is a direct violation of the minks' right to natural behaviour. That is why the fur industry must stop in Sweden. We can also ask what the possibility of natural behaviour exists for some 80 million chickens in the broiler chicken industry. Quantities of chickens are enclosed in minimal spaces. They grow fast, for they are fed for almost every hour of the day. That's what you do to make them grow as fast as possible, which makes them break their bones, and they break their bones and get very weak bones because they grow so fast and become so heavy. Is that an example of respecting natural behavior? I don't think so. This also applies to our 8 million hens in egg production, where in fact 1 million of these hens are still trapped in small cages. And how many of the nearly 3 million pigs have the opportunity to go outside and bend, seek food and move freely, as pigs should be able to do? That's an extremely minimal proportion of the pigs. What about all animals transported to different breeding establishments and on to the slaughter industry? What do those transports look like? Are they compatible with the animal's right to natural behaviour? No, I don't think so. So there is a great deal to be done here, Mr President. We in the Left Party have a number of reservations that raise some of these issues. We want, for example, outings for all animals in the food industry. We have also proposed in this House in the past a ban on the fur industry in Sweden as it stands today. However, it is not just about legislation. It is also about us politicians being able to make decisions that mean that fewer animals need to be tormented and hurt in Sweden. I am thinking mainly of the rapidly growing consumption of meat in Sweden – compared to 1990, we eat more than 40% more meat in Sweden today. This has led to an increasingly intensive and unnatural breeding of animals. With reduced meat consumption, we would have the opportunity to treat the animals that remain for them more naturally and better. That is why we in the Left Party have proposed to Parliament that we should adopt an action plan for precisely reduced meat consumption. Mr President, I would like to In this report, we in the Left Party propose that all EU Member States should have the right to take precedence in the field of animal welfare. Ideally, we want something we call an animal welfare guarantee. With an animal welfare guarantee, one Member State could say: No, we put an end to this activity – even if it is allowed in other EU countries, we say no, because this is contrary to the interests of animals. With an animal welfare guarantee, our authorities could also put an end to some of the animal transports that today start in Sweden and end in Poland, Germany or any other country, so that the animals exported there will be raised or slaughtered there because they make more money out of it. It will be a very long and completely unnecessary animal transport, probably contrary to the eight-hour limit we have in Sweden. With an animal welfare guarantee, our authorities could say: No, this is contrary to the interests of animals. We do not accept this form of animal transport. That is why we are highlighting the issue of being able to take precedence at European level – precisely with reference to animals. You can find this in reservation 1. Many of the issues I have raised would be dealt with in the proposal for a new Animal Welfare Act. It is a proposal that has been carefully examined; an investigation has already been carried out in November 2011. The former bourgeois government promised to take care of that investigation and present a new animal welfare law. It was promised several times, but we never saw any proposal for a new animal welfare law. I see Eskil Erlandsson from the Center Party sitting in the Chamber. He may be able to answer why this was not the case, for it was precisely Eskil Erlandsson and the Center Party who were responsible for that question within the bourgeois government. However, I must say that I am disappointed also with the current Social Democratic and Environmental Party government. You have promised that there would be a new law on animal welfare, and we would have had it this spring. We didn't get a new law on animal welfare. Now you're telling me it's coming in the fall, and you're gonna have to make sure that's really the case. Otherwise I get really angry, and then it won't be fun! We must have a new law on animal welfare on the table in this House as soon as possible, so that all these issues can be dealt with and improved and so that animals really get the right to natural behaviour they deserve. Mr President, I would like to I said at the outset that I hope that debates of this kind can be referred to as debates on animal rights rather than on animal welfare. I think how we treat animals in a society is a gauge of – overall – how civilized that society is. Here we in Sweden have gone and thought that we are the best in the world on animal issues, but we now see that country after country actually goes forward and bans the fur industry. You forbid circuses to keep wild animals, you invest in vegetarian food, you allow more animals to go outdoors and so on. So there is still a lot to be done here in Sweden to make us a country that truly respects the rights of animals. I am, of course, behind all our reservations, Mr President, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation No 4.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-30	Mr President, I would like to Pending the Government's proposal for animal welfare, we are debating the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment's report 16, Animal welfare. We have dedicated members of the Swedish Parliament. They have tabled 39 motions with some seventy motions, which we have to deal with in the report. It concerns antibiotics in animal husbandry in the EU, animal welfare work in the EU, cats, animal welfare controls, animal bans, animal care, free-range requirements, out-of-door visits for pigs and so on. The committee rejects all of them on the grounds that there is active work going on in the Government Office on the basis of the announced animal welfare bill. I call for all motions to be rejected and for the proposal contained in the report to be approved. The committee proposed two joint declarations last year. One was that the government needs to step up EU work, improve animal welfare and reduce the use of antibiotics throughout the EU. It is gratifying that the government is now clearly working on animal welfare issues on a broad front towards and within the EU, Mr President. Among other things, animal welfare cooperation has been established with Denmark, the Netherlands and Germany. This has so far resulted in a pig welfare declaration and an invitation to the European Commission to work further on these important issues, as well as a basis for an EU animal welfare platform. We strongly believe in cooperation and share the government's view that these initiatives will help to strengthen the whole of animal welfare work in the EU. It is important that Sweden continues to drive the Commission towards a new Animal Welfare Action Plan by 2020. There is every reason to take a concerted approach to animal welfare work. That is why we in the committee continue to call on the government to continue its commitment to this issue. It is important to push Member States' compliance with the common rules from both animal welfare and competition perspectives. It is not okay when we receive signals that compliance with the regulations for the transport of live animals is not working. It is extremely important that both the Swedish Government and the European Commission pay attention to this issue and that the government continues to prioritise this work. It is also important to reduce animal transport in every way. It is not reasonable to transport animals so that they actually die before they arrive. Here Sweden has a good tradition and an important role. Many people see Sweden as a role model country, so it is important that we share the knowledge and experience we have. When it comes to Swedish conditions, it is also very important to pay attention to local production and to create the conditions for more slaughterhouses to be created around the country. Much has been said over the years here about the use of antibiotics. It is a major public health issue. It is also a big and intransparent issue. Bacteria that develop resistance, resistant to antibiotics, are a major and growing public health problem worldwide. It causes disease, not only in animals but also in humans. It is also a matter of knowledge. It is not reasonable to routinely raise animals with antibiotics in feed. This means, and will entail, large and increased costs for health care, extended periods of care and more expensive medicines. In the long term, treatment methods may also have to be changed. We may need to treat cancers in a completely different way than we do today. It is gratifying now that the government has been active, both nationally and internationally within the EU, to reduce the use of antibiotics, which is absolutely necessary. We in Sweden have a long and broad experience in counteracting antibiotic resistance. Sweden is often seen as a role model in this area. It is gratifying to us that there is a newly awakened interest in the Swedish experience. It is also important that we can share our experience with the European Commission and other Member States. It is also important that we in the committee continue to support the government in the negotiations that are going on at European level and push for more stringent rules in order to have a more restrictive use of antibiotics throughout the Union. The government has announced that it is pushing for a ban on the sale of antibiotics by veterinarians for profit-making purposes. We believe that this is something that needs to be stopped throughout the European Union. This and much more is achieved by having a commitment, but also through cooperation between different sectors of animal husbandry and with other countries. We Social Democrats believe that animal welfare and the reduction of the use of antibiotics in animal production are some of the most important of the forthcoming negotiations in the agricultural and food sector. Mr President, I would like to Good animal welfare is also an important part of the Swedish model. It is therefore gratifying that the government is now extending 30 million in the spring change budget to animal welfare controls. The money is distributed between the Swedish Board of Agriculture, which receives 5 million, and the county boards, which receive 25 million. The county administrative boards are responsible for the operational control of animal welfare and keepers, and the Board of Agriculture is responsible for coordinating the control authority's activities and also providing advice and support to them. This is important in order to obtain accurate and effective animal welfare control. It is also necessary to gain credibility and demonstrate that we can actually maintain the very good animal welfare and reputation that we have. Just like last year, cows are soon being released around the country. It's being marketed. I looked at Arla's website this morning and found that the interest is very great. Several farms are already overbooked. This is a good opportunity to showcase Swedish animal husbandry at its best. It is also more than a folk festival and a market jippo; it is an important part of the Swedish model. That is the big difference between some other countries. I am concerned when Members from other parties think indirectly or directly that this is something that needs to be reviewed and that we should have the same conditions of competition as the rest of Europe. I believe that an important part of Swedish food production is precisely animal welfare legislation. Then we must also have credibility for it. The government announces that one should look at that it should be a form smaller, which does not mean a grazing cow less. While reducing bureaucracy, we can maintain good animal welfare and grazing cows. Cows grazing on our meadows and in our pastures help to keep the Swedish landscape open. It helps keep the landscape alive. The bait increases well-being, and it increases the possibilities for plants, insects and birds and preserves biodiversity. The summer work, which is mainly about, in fields where the farmer has sown grass and on meadows and pastures provides the conditions for a living countryside throughout the country. The fact that our farmers open the farms to all who are interested and have the opportunity to see this gives a good insight to especially urbanized children who do not know where the milk and food come from. It actually comes from our farms and from our animals. It also helps to maintain the agricultural landscape. We do not achieve the environmental objective of a rich agricultural landscape today, but more effort is needed here. Mr President, I would like to Animal protection and cows in the pastures provide milk with fair conditions and good meat on the grill in spring and summer, and this gives our consumers a good conscience.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-49	Mr President, I would like to Isak From said many good things from the speaker's seat. I particularly like his clear stand for cows and their right to graze outdoors. It is important now that there is pressure to reduce grazing. I also think it was good that Isak From mentioned the important addition of SEK 30 million per year for increased and better animal welfare controls. This money is really needed. However, with regard to the new Animal Welfare Act, which I mentioned earlier, I do not think it was quite clear, so a clear message from the Social Democrats would be helpful. When exactly is the new Animal Welfare Act coming, and why has it been so long? When we debated this issue last year, the Left Party raised a number of calls for improvements for minks. We received the answer in the report, which was, of course, supported by the Social Democrats, that several of the demands for improvements for minks can be taken into account in the proposal for a new animal welfare law.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-54	It was good that Isak From raised the issue of animal transport. There are animal transports that start in Sweden and end in other countries. Some of these shipments are likely to last longer than eight hours and thus run counter to our eight-hour limit. Should Sweden not be able to say no to these shipments, Isak From?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-56	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jens Holm for the questions. As Jens Holm surely knows, the question is being prepared in the Government Office, and it is announced. There are many hopes for this bill, and that may be part of why it has been delayed. We are all following this work, and we will certainly have to come back to the details and proposals of the proposal in a number of areas. Some will surely be more satisfied than others. I'm sure not everyone will be completely satisfied. That's always the case, isn't it? As far as natural behavior is concerned, we see that there may be reason to clarify the wording of what natural behaviour means. It is our authorities that should interpret, follow and write the rules for this, and we politicians should not be at such a level of detail. We must continue to work together for what form the question of natural behavior comes in the bill. As far as animal transport is concerned, I share Jens Holm's view that we should be able to do more, particularly in terms of compliance. There may be a need for clarification of the eight-hour rule. Nor is it reasonable that we have completely different regulations within the European Union. We're still working on this.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-61	Mr President, I would like to This sounds a bit like an echo from former bourgeois politicians when I asked them: When is the Animal Welfare Act coming? You promised it would come now, and it won't come. Now I hear the same thing from the Social Democrats: it is prepared but it is announced. Let's really hope it comes after the summer. I would like Isak From to clarify what he said about natural behavior. I think it is very important that the new law states about the same thing as it says in § 4 of the current Animal Welfare Act: Animals have the right to natural behaviour. Of course, this must always be interpreted, but I thought that the whole point of the proposal for a new law on animal welfare was that this should be clarified so that it becomes clearer to our authorities what natural behaviour means. Isak From does not mean that there will be any deterioration in the Animal Welfare Act in terms of natural behaviour. What Isak From says about animal transport is good, but I had a specific question. The transport operations that begin in Sweden and end in Poland, Germany and previously also the Netherlands for the intensive rearing of animals and the slaughter of animals sometimes last longer than eight hours. Should not Swedish authorities be able to say that Sweden has a limit of eight hours for animal transport and therefore say no to its animal transport? Finally, will the minks be included in the proposal?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-68	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm will probably be a little disappointed when it comes to pointing out the minks. I maintain that all animals kept should have the possibility of natural behaviour but that politics should not regulate this in detail. Politics is not best suited to point out in detail what is natural behavior for a pig, a chicken or, for that matter, a mink. In my speech, I said that, with regard to the follow-up to animal transport in particular, there is legislation to be complied with. We believe that there is a need for enforcement at European level, but above all it is a matter of follow-up. You can't ban everything just because someone might misbehave their mission.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-70	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the animal welfare report. It contains 74 exercise requests from general exercise time. However, a number of these issues have been debated earlier in this House, so they will therefore be dealt with in a simplified way. Unfortunately, the committee's report contains no news from the government. Instead, it contains several references to the forthcoming animal welfare bill. The proposal will come after the long-awaited food strategy, and since the strategy is delayed, the proposal will come in the autumn at the earliest. We will then have reason to debate the subject more deeply than we do today. Swedish animal welfare is known throughout the world, and we are very proud of it. We have managed to keep animal production with healthy and prosperous animals without unnecessary antibiotic use or pain for the animals. It is important to continue with good animal welfare and modern legislation in this area. The success of this requires a new animal welfare legislation based on scientific and proven experience and not on human values or the aim of making it more difficult to maintain domestic animals. Under the alliance government, a solid report was produced on a new law on animal welfare. Some parts have already become legislation and have been debated in this House by all of us. Other elements needed further investigation in order to land in more concrete legal texts. Current government parties were very critical of the fact that there was no sharper animal welfare legislation during the last parliamentary term when they were in opposition. In this House, the tailing has been high in terms of stricter rules and more detail in legislation, not least from the Green Party. Now the tone is a little different, and it is perhaps good that the Green Party can feel what it's like to take responsibility for real. However, the question remains as to what the new animal welfare legislation should contain and whether it will make domestic animal husbandry more difficult in the country and make it even tougher for our hardworking farmers. Part of the forthcoming food strategy concerns competitiveness and increased production in the country. We think that Moderates are both good and important. However, it is important to take animal welfare issues into account in the development of the strategy so that future animal welfare proposals do not hamper competitiveness and growth. In a competitive world where prices are dumped on the market, it is important that Swedish farmers can participate and compete. The new voluntary label From Sweden, which was launched only yesterday, will hopefully increase the demand for Swedish meat, which is both climate-smart and beneficial and is covered by better animal welfare than many other products imported into Sweden. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have previously proposed such things as a ban on mink farms, increased and stricter grazing requirements, ethical target management, an animal ombudsman and a return to municipal animal welfare controls. Since we do not know what the new animal welfare legislation will contain, we can only hope that the government is really thinking about what these proposals would do for competitiveness and growth around the country. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is part of a larger world, and we do not want to stop the import of food or, for that matter, the export of Swedish food. However, in order to increase Swedish production and competitiveness, better compliance with European legislation and tougher penalties are needed for those who have put in systems to seek exemptions or violate our common animal welfare laws. It is also important that European animal protection be improved. We are therefore pleased with the consensus found in the report on proposing and teaching our knowledge of good animal welfare without reducing the production of our European neighbours. But before they catch up with Sweden, it is important that we do not make unnecessary animal welfare increases that are more of an ethical pleasure for us than for animals. It is also important that the government continues with the Alliance's work on reducing antibiotic resistance in the world. The systematic use of antibiotics in animal feed is not an alternative to compromising good animal husbandry. It is also important that we continue to work with industry programmes and control programmes to develop animal husbandry. However, compliance with the rules must remain important. If you break rules and laws, there should be a proper penalty. It should be compatible with all other legislation, and there should be a better opportunity to appeal and review their rights than there is today. Animal husbandry must never become a lawless country, but it requires responsibility from both animal keepers, politicians and authorities.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-85	Mr President, I would like to We are debating the right of animals to their natural behaviour. What could be more in line with the right of animals to natural behaviour than, for example, that pigs may go outdoors and bend in the ground? That's how pigs spend much of their waking time; they bow, seek food, and build nests. If it is a sow, it has its cults with it, builds nests and gathers food for them and so on. I would therefore like to quote a passage from a motion. It says that a pig's need for outdoor stay... and an opportunity to behave naturally is at least as great as for cows, sheep and goats. Then it says:中 The Riksdag should make known to the government what the motion suggests that pigs should also be entitled to outdoor stay. ..................................................... I think it's a great exercise and a great suggestion. The motion comes from the Moderates and Sofia Arkelsten. That is why we in the Left Party said that we should support the motion, and we do so in the report. We will be voting in favour of the proposal that pigs should be entitled to a place out of town. What I have to ask Åsa Coenraads is: Why don't you vote for this motion from your own party, the Moderates?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-90	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, it is important that we have new animal welfare legislation based on knowledge, science and proven experience. That is why we think it is important to carry out investigations in this area in order to make it as good as possible. I don't think it's in the animal's best interest if Jens Holm, I or any of our colleagues in here start deciding what's best at detail for the animals, because we don't have that expertise. Now comes a new animal welfare bill, as the government has announced. I hope that these issues will be taken into account so that we have the best possible legislation.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-93	Mr President, I would like to The question remains. First, the Moderates raise a motion calling for a right to outing for pigs. I think that is an obvious requirement. You argue so well in the exercise too, Åsa Coenraads, when you mention the fact that cows, sheep and goats are entitled to outdoor stay but that pigs do not have it. Then you ask yourself in the exercise: What is the difference between a cow and a pig when it comes to the desire to go outdoors and graze in one case and bend in the other case? And then you land in the perfectly logical conclusion that if cows, sheep and goats are allowed to go outdoors, the pigs should also have that right. My question therefore remains: why do you not vote in favour of your own motions? Why is it the Left Party that brings out the Moderates' movements?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-97	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates cause a lot of exercise. They are dealt with in different ways, both in the Chamber and internally in the Party. The exercise that Jens Holm refers to is an individual exercise. We will take this into account for upcoming party movements that we will wake up later in the autumn, and we will have reason to deal with it then. As I said earlier, it is important that we get a whole for all animal species. Then I do not want to point out a single species of animal as Jens Holm does in the proposal, but we shall have a whole on animal welfare issues. It must be thoroughly investigated. As regards the specific requirements for the different species of animals, it is the Swedish Board of Agriculture that puts such directives in place. We are not going to do that in this House.
i-KdFXhTUmhfkLrsqjEXk913	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your speech, Åsa Coenraads. I took the opportunity to request a reply to perhaps get an answer to the question: What do the Moderates really want? You can get a little different information. Some people are grateful. In opposition, the Moderates have now turned and want a food strategy, which we welcome. Now the Moderates have a rural political spokesperson who is not on the Environment and Agriculture Committee but who is out promising and debating major changes in moderate rural policy – that the level of self-sufficiency must be raised, exports increased and so on. When I hear Åsa Coenraads in this House, I am not particularly concerned, but when I hear other moderate representatives argue that we must have the same competitive conditions as at European level and indirectly believe that we must reduce animal welfare. What is the attitude of the Moderates? What level are we going to have? Should we have the Swedish model where we have strong animal welfare and great confidence in the Swedish products, or should we end up at another, somewhat unclear, level? And who actually represents the Moderates on these important issues?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-102	Mr President, I would like to On the question of what the Moderates want and whether one can be afraid of me or the Moderates, I would like to answer: Yes, there is every reason for the government to be a little afraid of the Moderates, because we come up with concrete proposals and ideas, which are in our animal welfare movement. What do we want? Well, we want good animal welfare based on scientific basis and proven experience. We believe in freedom of trade and that we should have protection for the animals, not for our ethical opinions and thinking. We see that it is a good basis for the forthcoming food strategy. If we are now going to and want to increase the Swedish level of self-sufficiency and increase exports, we are not doing so through more rules, bureaucracy and taxes.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-105	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have previously announced the dismantling of the common agricultural policy. Suddenly, rural political spokesperson Sten Bergheden is out in favour of having a new North European agency for coordinating these important issues. Is it a changed attitude that Åsa Coenraad shares? As I said earlier, I agree with much of what Åsa Coenraads said in the speaker's chair, but since there are very sprawling statements with many different directions, many people are becoming thoughtful. What do the Moderates really want?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-107	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates want us to be able to produce as much as possible in this country, even on the animal side. It is a good thing that we have animal welfare that is good both for domestic juvenile husbandry and for our houses and pets, which are also included in the report. We want simpler rules, which we worked on a lot during the previous alliance government. We want to make it easier and easier to start, keep or even increase a production, if you like. We see that demand for Swedish products is increasing, and then politics must keep up and make this easier. We have also set up a competitiveness study that points to things where we can make it easier for animal husbandry. I hope that the Social Democrats will bring their Green Party co-operation party to produce a food strategy and that there is also a thinking in the food strategy on how animal welfare legislation should be accompanied. It is sad that we, the Alliance, cannot be part of the work. I think it would have been easier if we could get a broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament. But then you also have to be willing to give and take some. I'm sorry the government doesn't.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-111	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has a strategy that is not always successful in getting a high vote, namely maximizing votes among those who do not have the right to vote. The foundation of our party is solidarity with people here in Sweden and in the rest of the world. But we also have solidarity with future generations, and they have no right to vote. The third solidarity is with animals, nature and the ecological system, and neither do they have the right to vote. The animals live with us here and now. They have no chance of influencing the debate, and therefore, Mr President, today's debate is very important, because for once we can speak in favour of lifting the conditions for animals, that their situation is affected. It is up to us to decide, at least for the animals we have domesticated. It is our duty, now that we are discussing rules that farmers, pet owners and others must comply with, not only to listen to the needs and demands of farmers or pet owners in terms of what they think is simple and correct, but also to take into account the conditions of animals. Then we must also investigate how the laws that we govern affect animals. Hopefully this will lead us to agree to maintain a high level of animal protection in Sweden that is higher than the EU's minimum standards. That's what I expect to be the end product in the fall when we're done. It is also about how we view ourselves as civilization. A state's development can be measured by how it treats the most defenceless. I want us to be a highly developed civilization defending the most defenseless living creatures. In fact, it is quite rarely a real conflict between the best interests of man and the best interests of animals, because in reality it is mostly about who should pay the price for good animal husbandry and for poor animal husbandry. Often you are fool-free if you squeeze animals together, which requires a lot of antibiotics. The animals get sick and the veterinary bills rise, and eventually there are so many multi-resistant bacteria that the veterinary bills and treatments cost very much, and eventually we get multi-resistant bacteria that also affect the treatment of people. It costs billions of damages and losses to sell horse meat and pretend it's beef. Farming with the cheapest possible forage can result in the death of a Brazilian worker or the cutting down of a rain forest somewhere on earth. The Danes have recently felt the effect of ignoring the EU acquis and running their own race when raising pigs. Finally, poorly stimulated pigs bite each other in the tail. This is also what the industry will do if it does not comply with the regulations and has a good and strong regulatory framework. It may seem profitable to import fertilizers and finite resources such as phosphorus from Morocco. But that's 575 megatonnes of carbon dioxide emissions from fertilizer production every year. Who pays that cost? With bait, we can do it. We do not need to import fertilizers or phosphorus into pasture land, at least not normally. It is not the cow release that we should let go of, but it is the myth that reducing grazing requirements would increase profitability. The challenge is not to investigate what animal welfare requirements profitability can withstand. Instead, the challenge is to make it sustainable and the humane – what people actually want – the profitable. Then there are some suggestions. First of all, we need more competition. If there is a single company that buys all the milk, they set the price at an unreasonable level. Start small competitors! I know several farmers who say that they are now being paid a lot for their milk. I recently met a farmer in Skåne who has bought up new pasture. It was cheap to buy up the farm compared to importing and automating everything. He now makes a good profit on every litre of milk. He has reduced production costs and thus increased profitability by also getting better paid. I also believe in local food processing: Eldrimner and Særimner in Östersund. If you are to make money from agriculture, you can make money by selling many kilos with low profit on each kilo or increasing the margin by selling by a higher margin. You get paid more for a cheese than for a liter of milk. You get paid more for a fine sausage compared to meat, fat and connective tissue, which in some cases you put in. In fact, all of us politicians in here can do something about this. We agree that Sweden should have high animal welfare standards. But when we procure, it should be cheap-cheap. Actually, it's an absurdity. This is something that all parties can steer up, I think. If we agree that we should have high standards, we should also procure that. In fact, work is being done here. Ardalan Shekarabi has started this work. I think that is very good. Another possibility to get paid for what you do is to inform. When I was sitting in the European Parliament, I pushed the issue of origin marking very hard. Now it comes for more types of meat than beef. But we are still waiting when it comes to processed products. Here in Sweden, for example, we can do something about the restaurant industry, make higher demands on people to know what they are buying. Then they can make a choice. It is liberal and fine, that you make your own choice and have the opportunity to pay for what you want and demand. Something that is a little beyond next year's budget but which I would like to mention is the possibility of getting paid for ecosystem services. It's perfectly natural. If a farmer reduces nitrogen leakage, if a farmer increases biodiversity, then it is an ecosystem service, and it is no more unreasonable for society to pay for it than for us to pay our telephone bill. There is an illusion that low demands and profitability are interrelated. We will never have the optimal growing season in Sweden, except possibly for peas from Bjuv– I could argue that we have. The fuel is cheaper in Romania. The land costs less in Bulgaria. Wages are lower in Greece. Our chance to make money is through added value. That's what we're here to defend. Otherwise, we will take out Swedish agriculture. I have some sympathy for Jens Holm, who is waiting for the Animal Welfare Act. I really hope I don't become like the little boy in waiting for Godot. You remember that Vladimir and Estragon are waiting for Godot... when he comes, everything will be fine. So the little boy comes the first day and says: No, he's not coming today, he's coming tomorrow. The next day, little boy comes and says, "He's not coming, he's probably coming tomorrow." In the end, they know exactly what the boy should say every day. I really hope I'm not that boy when I promise Jens Holm : It will come this autumn. But it's not your anger that's the motivation, it's the welfare and woe of animals. There are a couple of other important points I would like to raise, although I have already exceeded my speaking time, Mr President. I hope you'll excuse me. I'd like to bring up 3R centers. We are now launching the assignment to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, and I hope that we can agree that we will finance it properly in the future, so that the work can get started, because we have an example of win-win. If we can reduce and refine the methods for the use of animal experiments and replace animal experiments, then industry, animals and people will benefit from it. Tests are better, safer and cheaper. Finally, antibiotics. Here I think there is a great deal of consensus in this House, so I should not say much about it. We agree that Sweden will push forward both in TTIP negotiations and in the EU. As far as animal transport is concerned, it is the same. Here we have our demands for eight hours. To Åsa Coenraads: It is not really a scientific requirement. It is not that animals feel good for seven hours and 59 minutes and then feel bad after eight hours and a minute. We have compromised on various balancing things, and I think that the eight-hour requirement is something that we can also ensure that the European Union compromises on. It has a scientific basis, but there is no exact time limit of just eight hours. Besides, it's different for different races. I hope to be able to come back to the matter of minks eventually, but I cannot promise anything there, Jens. I'm trying to work for minks to live a natural life, and we all know what's involved. New German studies show how important it is to have great opportunities for swimming.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-133	Mr President, I would like to As for the wait for Godot, when they waited, not all the peace and joy for Vladimir and Estragon was there. I hope that this animal welfare law really will be something completely different and something that highlights the position of animals. I would like to remind you that last year, when we had this debate on animal welfare in this House, you wrote within the majority on the minks that you expected a proposal to come in order to satisfy the motionary's, that is, my and the Left Party's, proposal for stricter requirements for the mink industry. So you'll have to make sure that's the way it is. Just push it in the department. I hope you do, because it is you who are in government. In this proposal that we are discussing now, the Left Party is proposing an animal welfare guarantee vis-à-vis the EU that individual Member States should be able to advance in the field of animal welfare. Sweden does that in several areas, and that's great. However, there are some areas in which the EU clashes with our Swedish ambitions, such as animal transport, as I mentioned earlier. If animals are sent to, for example, Poland, Germany or the Netherlands, it will be more than eight hours. Then our authorities should be able to go in and say: No, we do not accept these transports. We should also be able to stop the import of meat from animals that have been reared in a way that is contrary to Swedish animal welfare law. In the light of the negotiations on the so-called trade agreement with the EU and the US, I think it is even more important to be very clear and say that we should be able to have an animal welfare guarantee. Finally, I would also like to ask Carl Schlyter about what this report says about the Competitiveness Investigation. That makes me a little worried, because we are talking about equal application of animal welfare legislation at European level. I'm afraid it will get worse in Sweden then. Couldn't that be?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-138	Mr President, I would like to First of all, as far as minks are concerned, I agree. We will deliver what we promise. Otherwise, you'll have to yell at us in another year, because if we don't deliver what we promised, we deserve it. With regard to the issue of the Competitiveness Investigation and equal application at European level, it does not mean that we should lower our standard to European level, but it is a bit the same thing as what I mentioned about the Danes. If the EU has set rules, everyone should actually comply with those rules. The government has already made contact with the Commission, particularly in the case of pigs. The EU has a strategy to combat the use of antibiotics, and countries are not following it either. That's what we're talking about. If we can get the EU to apply what they have already promised, it will improve the competitive situation for Sweden and the conditions for animals and people and public health. That is what is meant. I agree with you that demands should be made. It's included, too. In the negotiations I have been through on trade agreements, we have always tried to push animal welfare requirements into the negotiations. You have also been a Member of the European Parliament and know how it is, Jens Holm, and demanding an import ban for animals that are bred according to the EU's own conditions to Sweden will be very difficult. What we might be able to work for is to do in the same way as when it comes to climate responsibility and how to handle those who escape it. If we do not agree on CO2 charges internationally, for those who do not meet certain requirements, we can actually have EU charges at the border that would have a significant impact on competitiveness. We can think of similar requirements when it comes to imports into the EU of animals that do not reach the levels at all. But within the European Union, I believe we have no chance of winning that battle even if we would like to take it.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-143	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Competitiveness Investigation is concerned, I very much hope that everyone in the investigation will think the way Carl Schlyter does. I am afraid that wordings such as the equal application of animal welfare legislation at European level are just as likely to mean, and they usually do, that those at a high level have to lower down to some kind of mediocre level, that is to say that there is total harmonisation. There is also quite a lot of pressure being put on it. Here it is important, not least for you in the parties that are in the government, to define this precisely as that we do not intend to lower our levels but that the others should raise theirs. You mentioned some such examples, but there are also quite a few examples where we in Sweden are ahead. It should be absolutely self-evident that we should not have to lower a single level. It is then difficult for things to become barriers to trade and to violate the free movement of goods and competition. But what do you say, Carl Schlyter, about my idea of an animal welfare guarantee at least for animal transport? If we can point out that, for example, transport down to southern Germany, Poland or the Netherlands is much longer than eight hours, our authorities must be able to go in and stop because we have an eight-hour limit. I think that all these transports are really completely unnecessary. Why don't we raise them and slaughter them here instead of transporting them to other countries? However, if transport is to be carried out, transporters must be able to demonstrate that the journey is no longer than eight hours. Wouldn't that be a good idea?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-147	Mr President, I would like to The key word here is application. If it hadn't been said, you'd be absolutely right. I cannot guarantee that no one else who has been involved in the investigation or who has read the final report of the investigation is thinking in a different way, but if you are going to follow what it says, it is precisely about its application. There should be no reduction in requirements, but better implementation throughout the EU. How people interpret it is one thing, but when it says the way you read it, that's how you read it. When it comes to animal transport, you know very well that I cannot stand here and promise something that the government has not even talked to me or to each other about. On the other hand, I think it is quite logical, legally, that if something is forbidden and I plan a transport that violates it is illegal, and it seems unreasonable that one should not be able to do anything about it. The basic principle that there is something that we should do something about, I fully agree with Jens Holm. Exactly what we're going to do about it, I can't promise anything, but I can promise I'll fight for it.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-150	Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions about Carl Schlyter's speech here. There is once again a high tail rate from Carl Schlyter in the speaker's chair. The question is whether Carl Schlyter's party The Green Party has the same level of tailfare in government cooperation. I wonder what the Green Party wants in the new animal welfare legislation and how communication with the Socialist Party is on this issue. We have heard representatives of the Green Party talk earlier about a ban on trade with, for example, mink farmers. I wonder whether something has been raised with Minister Damberg before and how it will work together with the Swedish legislation as it stands today. Or is it intended to make changes in areas other than animal welfare legislation in relation to the freedom to conduct a business? Why is the animal welfare bill delayed, Carl Schlyter? And what things does Carl Schlyter think should be included in the new animal welfare bill?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-153	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for raising the issue of business freedom, Åsa Coenraads. I have not personally talked to Mrs Damberg about exactly this, because it is my colleagues who are dealing with this issue. You'll have to ask them. In general, I think there is a great potential, especially in rural areas, for new forms of entrepreneurship. I've been involved in the opening of a district company. There they work together for the best interests of the district in a joint company. I have also seen how local food processing can increase income opportunities so that you can make money from more than one thing. You reduce vulnerability. As far as access to venture capital is concerned, I think the credit guarantee associations are fantastic. We have now ordered them. There are already several, both at EU level and in Sweden. That way you can have access to capital to invest and test new things in rural areas. There is therefore a lot of interest in this area. I also think we can agree on some things there. When it comes to high tailings, I wonder which debate in Parliament is better to have high tails in than an animal debate. I hope it won't have to be lowered. But I cannot promise that I will receive support in the government for everything that I and the Green Party think. There are also parties that quite often think the opposite in the questions, as do you Åsa Coenraads. We need to get this through in Parliament, too. But if you agree that we should raise animal welfare standards in Sweden, keep our animal welfare standards, that it should be higher than in the EU and that the challenge is to get paid for that, maybe we can agree. You called for cooperation. I am used, precisely from the European Parliament, to working together and trying to find solutions. I'd be happy to talk to you, your moderate party colleagues and others from the Alliance. It would be good for animals if we could agree on certain conditions. But we have different basic settings. You think the best way to make a profit is to lower the requirements to the EU level. Then I don't think it's possible to get along.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-160	Mr President, I would like to I have made a speech in this House quite recently. I said that we should have the same levels of animal protection in the European Union and that we should work more to bring the European level up to the current Swedish law. I do not think that the requirements of Swedish animal welfare legislation should be increased so that they are higher than those of our European neighbours. Rather, we should help them to raise the requirements of their legislation. It rhymes a little bit when the representative of the Green Party in the animal welfare debate talks about keeping our promises, for example on the mink issue. Has Carl Schlyter raised this particular issue with his cooperation party in the government? It's good that the Green Party wants to cooperate with the Moderates. We have done so on a number of different issues. But now the Green Party is in the government together with the Social Democrats. Then perhaps it is primarily those to talk to about the freedom of trade. I see a risk with the Green Party's policy on animal welfare. I do not believe that we will be able to keep to what has been promised in terms of competitiveness and growth in the country. I see problems with this in the forthcoming food strategy, and I see a major problem with this in the forthcoming animal welfare bill. It would therefore be interesting to hear what issues the Green Party intends to push the hardest in future animal welfare proposals.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-164	Mr President, I would like to Forgive me for not negotiating with the sossians here in plenary. It's much easier to get a good ear for good politics if I do it with them before I do it with you, Åsa Coenraads. I told you what I was thinking in my post. I think I misunderstood something. When you said freedom of trade, did you mean the mink farms? I think that freedom of business should be governed by the law. If the law states that animals should have the right to natural behaviour and if we note that minks, as they are held in many places, do not have reasonable conditions for natural behaviour, it is no longer the freedom of nutrition. If the mink farms are to continue to act in this way, the Wild West is. I just don't agree with you there. On the other hand, I am delighted that we can work together and fight for Europe to raise its minimum levels, its standards. I believe that all parties in the Chamber agree on this. We do not see any drawbacks there. So we can work together there. But if you think that freedom from nutrition means that mink farms should be able to violate rules regarding natural behavior, we do not agree at all. If, then, I, the government and the parliament decide that we should interpret this law in this way, no one will be more satisfied than I am. If I lose, you might be happy.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-168	Mr President, I would like to I'll bet, for my part, extremely brief. I just want to make two points. I do so because many of the motion requests in the report have been debated and dealt with on several occasions in the past. An animal welfare bill from the government to the House is also expected. That's one thing I'm going to say a few words about. My wish is for that bill to be targeted. Technicians change over time. A law should and cannot be changed too often. Science is making progress, which cannot always be taken into account in a long - term law. Research is coming. Best practice also develops and changes over time. Hence my wish that the forthcoming animal welfare bill should contain targeted paragraphs. The second thing I want to say about is that good animal husbandry actually provides better production, better yields, for those who keep animals. For those who do not hold animals for financial gain, such as pets, it is also essential that the animals bring joy and satisfaction. And that makes animals kept in good conditions and kept healthy. I believe that everyone in this House wants the use of antibiotics and other medicines, for example, to be reduced. It is essential that it is woven into the forthcoming animal welfare bill. It is in everyone's interest to reduce the use of antibiotics and other medicines in our animal husbandry. This applies to so-called farm animals as well as our pets. We can do a lot in our country. But that's not enough. Others, too, must do much and perhaps even more. The big job must therefore be continued on the European playing field, but also in other international contexts. We in this House must help to continue to influence, for example by ensuring that veterinarians cannot sell medicines, such as antibiotics, and make money from it in Europe. This is happening in many places. We will hopefully have a trade agreement with the American continent. Then we must help to ensure, for example, that they do not use antibiotics for preventive purposes, but like us, that is, for curative and healing purposes. One thing that would make it easier to reduce the use of antibiotics could be if we influenced in such a way that we have a European register for the use of antibiotics. Then everyone can see how much antibiotics are being used, which I say is too much, in other parts of Europe.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-176	Mr President, I would like to I also look forward to a new and modern animal welfare legislation in autumn 2016. I assume that is the autumn we are talking about. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. Nor do the Liberals have any reservations in the report. The two announcements mentioned at the beginning of the debate are still topical. It is about stepping up animal welfare work in the EU and about reducing the use of antibiotics. But it was only a year since the announcements were made. We have to assume that the government is actively working on the issues. What was mentioned about animal welfare cooperation with a number of countries is seen as a positive feature. The consequences of the use of antibiotics and antibiotic resistance are insurmountable, and we do not know what this can lead to. From a public health point of view, this is a very central issue. According to the WHO, this is the greatest threat to public health. Today, a number of ten thousand people are already dying in Europe because of the increase in antibiotic resistance. The issue of animal welfare, good animal health and public health is closely linked. We in Sweden have shown that we can combine low antibiotic use and good animal welfare with very healthy animals. This is not an impossible equation. There is interdependence between humans and animals, and this means working in both human and veterinary medicine to address the problem of antibiotic use and resistance. Eskil Erlandsson highlighted veterinary commissions and such. It's an important thing that you have to look at. There are many levels of work around this. The WHO has its action plan. There are EU rules and a national strategy is also being developed. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, animal welfare is based on a very strong base, and this, of course, makes us credible when we push the issue within the EU in order to influence other EU countries to tighten up their animal welfare. This is mainly about animal welfare, but it is also partly about the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture. Both animal welfare and low antibiotic use create Swedish added value that we shall take care of. I object a little to Carl Schlyter's reasoning. He said not only should we listen to the farmers, but we should listen to others. I do not have the experience at all that Swedish farmers have any interest in not maintaining strong animal welfare and a low use of antibiotics. I assume it was a little lapsus to say that way. But it's not a real-life description. It also shows a lack of respect for the industry that is working hard on the issue. Although Sweden's added value has not always been translated at the right price – i.e. that you should be able to charge for it – the solution is not to abandon strong Swedish animal welfare, but to step up work at EU level to strengthen animal welfare there as well. As has been mentioned here a few times, it is also a question of ensuring that the rules that still exist within the EU are complied with and that their application works. In addition, there must be severe sanctions. It should never pay to cheat in this area. As a liberal, I also think it is important to highlight the consumer perspective and the demands of individual people. Today it is a big trend to look at animal welfare as an added value when shopping. Of course, not everyone does, it's true. Yet, there are enough people who care about animal welfare for this to have a force. It then provides opportunities to continue working with the Swedish added value and work towards m arknaden in order to be able to take payment t in the right way by referring to animal welfare and the low antibiotic use. Here's some kind of circular reasoning. We often come back to the food strategy, and that is what we are going to do this afternoon when we are going to discuss food policy. Much of this must be in the forthcoming food strategy. We from the Liberals prioritise competitiveness and the consumer perspective in order to highlight the Swedish added value and create a market for these. The report mentions a requirement for different types of hens and laying hens. It is interesting to read in the report on consumer power. Demand for eggs from non-free-range hens and caged hens is decreasing. It shows that consumers say that the product is no longer interesting, and that can be a good enough solution to the problem. Mr President, I would like to As a liberal, I cannot help but highlight some of Marit Paulsen's work at European level. It shows that changes can really be made. Marit Paulsen was in the European Parliament for two periods. In the first period from 1999 to 2004, she was involved in developing the EU's common food law and was involved in setting up the EU Food Safety Authority. The most important thing there was questions about traceability. Once food fraud has started, traceability has proved to be important. Furthermore, Marit was responsible for the regulation on official food controls, which was subsequently extended on her initiative to include animal welfare. In recent years, work on European animal welfare legislation has been central. Some decisions have been taken on this in the European Parliament. It is the first European law to establish the link between animal welfare and public health. Principles of good husbandry and prudent, responsible use of antibiotics should be applied. In that case, poor animal husbandry cannot be masked with the use of medicines in the future. We may think that we have strong animal welfare in Sweden, and we should be proud of that, but changes are to be made at European level. The work done at European level shows that change is possible. With regard to the use of antibiotics, I would like to quote Marit Paulsen. In February 2015, she said, "The experts I met this week show what the world looks like and how incredibly threatened the survival of mankind is if we do not get to grips with antibiotic resistance." This was the dream of the future 30 years ago, and now we are there! .....................................................
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-194	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure Lars Tysklind that I have met a whole series of farmers, and I have seen how many of them really care about their animals. But sometimes you can be pressured for profitability reasons, by the bank, by international competition and by low prices and think that it can be a way forward that, just to survive, you save on costs, which can burden animals. I don't want people to end up in that situation. Since you belong to the Liberals, Lars Tysklind, and you have often praised yourself for your strong European commitment, my question is to you: if you are going to do more at European level, what do you say about the proposals to push for minimum rules for dairy cows and to have shorter transport times and better conditions for animals during animal transport? Can the Commission be called upon to clamp down on countries that systematically violate the law? Do you have any idea how the Liberals will work on that question? And what do you think?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-196	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to squeezing – to use Carl Schlyter's words – those who do not follow the rules, it is probably not only the Liberals who agree, but I think this whole House agrees. If you have rules, it requires that you have control and supervision so that it has consequences if the rules are not complied with. Liberals and myself are aware that there are shortcomings in this system. We must ensure that the national authorities meet the requirements. The same applies to transport. We from the Liberals have worked hard on animal transport. It is clear that demands should be made from outside, if not from the scientific point of view, at least reasonable demands. It is good that Carl Schlyter modified his statement on the Swedish farmers. We thank you for that.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-199	Mr President, I would like to Lars Tysklind was able to answer the question extremely well, and I am abstaining from further questions.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-200	Mr President, I would like to Swedish animal husbandry must be characterised by high animal welfare ambitions. Good management and good hygiene in animal husbandry provide not only better animal welfare but also high food quality. Sweden has a strong animal welfare law. This means that livestock farmers in Sweden have higher costs than their competitors in other countries. Farmers in these countries can sell their products at lower prices as a result of lower animal welfare requirements. In order for Swedish farmers not to be disadvantaged, it is important that animal welfare legislation is harmonised within the EU by strengthening EU requirements. The aim must be that Swedish animal welfare rules should serve as a guide for work within the EU. In particular, it is important that existing rules are complied with. As early as 2001, routine hives of pigs' tails were banned within the EU. Despite this, according to the EU Food Authority, Efsa, the vast majority of pigs in the EU have their tails cut off. The European Commission has also pointed out that the tail hive directive is not being complied with. Sweden is one of the few countries where pigs can still knock their tails. Mr President, I would like to Since 2006, it has been prohibited in the EU to mix antibiotics in animal feed for growth-promoting purposes. Unfortunately, this rule too is often circumvented in practice. The widespread use of antibiotics in livestock farming leads to an increase in antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Two thirds of all antibiotics are used in animal husbandry. The World Health Organization, WHO, warns that antibiotic-resistant bacteria are the biggest global threat to public health. It is appalling that diseases that we can usually cure with antibiotics will not be cured in the future. Breaking the development of resistance among the bacterial strains is a matter of destiny for mankind. Here Sweden is thankfully in the highest world class, and we will be happy about that. But more countries must follow our example. In March 2016, the European Parliament decided to impose a ban on preventive group treatment with antibiotics. On the other hand, there is still scope to be able to sprinkle medicine on feed or give it via water. It is important to close these loopholes. Mr President, I would like to No one could have missed that the toughest milk crisis in manna memory is going on. Five dairy farmers quit every week. The price of milk is down to 2.50 per kilo. It's at least a crown too little for a dairy farmer to go plus minus zero. The competitiveness inquiry concluded that our Swedish farmers are allowed to carry a much heavier backpack when they are to compete with the European farmers, a backpack that we politicians in this House have decided on. The backpack includes higher diesel prices and grazing requirements. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has recently presented proposals to review the rules on grazing requirements for cows. We see this as positive. This is an issue that we Christian Democrats have raised in the past. We'd like to review the grazing requirements for cows in drift halls. The focus is that cows that are well off also milk well. Therefore, all dairy farmers have incentives to improve animal welfare. It is worth pointing out that there is a big difference between how the cows are today and how they were when the grazing requirement was introduced 30 years ago.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-208	Mr President, I would like to The water conservation report is a recurring motion report. This year, some thirty requests for exercise and eleven reservations are being discussed. Of course, I support all five moderate reservations, but in order to save all our time, I only ask for the approval of reservation 1, which is the Alliance's reservation, and reservation 7 from the Moderates. Mr President, I would like to With its 2,400 kilometres of coastline, Sweden has one of Europe's longest coastlines, from Haparanda in the north to Strömstad in the west. Sweden is surrounded by the Baltic Sea in the east and south and by Kattegat and Skagerrak in the west. Counting lakes and rivers, we're approaching 38,000 miles of beaches. Along the coast and in the seas live, as we know, a large part of our biodiversity. But the oceans are also under great pressure. Believe me – as a Gotlander I know that extensive algal bloom is something that affects daily life. It's more than fine aerial pictures from NASA – it's an inhibitory factor for an island that is otherwise quite popular for swimming Swedes and international tourists. In short, we depend on the Baltic Sea being prosperous and viable. But that may not be the situation today. The Baltic Sea is one of the world's most polluted inland seas. A limited water exchange with the North Sea combined with eutrophication leads to oxygen-free bottoms. Fish, Norway lobsters and shrimps die or flee to healthier waters. Add to this the problem of invasive species on the west coast and the marine debris, which is bioaccumulated in the food chain and in some cases also affects our larger food fish. Mr President, I would like to The challenge of ensuring clean seas is great. But the marine and aquatic environment has long been a priority policy area for the Moderates and the Alliance Government. Let me therefore briefly explain what efforts were made between 2006 and 2014. As the EU Presidency, Sweden pushed for a common strategy for the Baltic Sea. Early on, we concluded that cooperation with the other eight countries around the Baltic Sea is crucial. Sweden's first marine national park was established in 2009 in Kosterhavet. It was an important milestone, accompanied by a milestone for the protection of marine areas. As the first country in the EU, Sweden banned phosphates in detergents in 2009. This ban has now also been introduced by other EU countries. We're a green forerunner. As chairman of the Helsinki Commission 2010 – 2012, Sweden pushed for the implementation of the Baltic Sea Action Plan. Together with Finland, we have also set up the Baltic Sea Action Plan Fund, which has funded over 30 projects around the Baltic Sea with the aim of reducing nutrient leakage and improving treatment. In 2011, the Maritime and Water Authority was established, which is now taking a comprehensive approach to maritime, water and fisheries issues. What was previously an unclear item in the budget became a marine environment billion. In 2013, the chemical bill was presented on the road to a non-toxic everyday life with new milestones and efforts to reach both the generational target and the environmental quality target Non-toxic environment. A comprehensive strategy for the work for a non-toxic environment was born here, and there are still several good proposals for the current government to pick up and make a reality. In short, the Alliance government has been working urgently on issues relating to the marine and aquatic environment. Some results have been found, including the reduction of nutrient leakage. But many results will take a long time. The fruits of the work that has been done so far will not yet be fully harvested for many years. It is clear to me that the work on improving the marine environment requires long-term planning and efforts, but above all patience. Regardless of today's level of ambition, we are decades from a clean sea. Mr President, I would like to In particular, I would like to highlight three subjects that are covered in this motion report. Firstly, the environmental situation in our seas is critical and requires quite far-reaching efforts and great commitment to reducing emissions and environmental impacts. Sweden should continue to be a driving force in marine environmental work, against eutrophication, against toxic emissions and against litter – both regionally and internationally. Measurement and monitoring of the state of the environment in Swedish seas and waters is necessary in order to obtain sufficient knowledge of the levels of harmful substances in fish and drinking water. A good environment in our seas is also important for many industries, such as tourism and fishing. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to call for the approval of reservation 1, in which the alliance parties are further developing this reasoning. As a small addition, I can also mention that I look forward to the Alliance's drinking water investigation soon leaving its final report. According to the Swedish Food Safety Agency's review, 3.4 million Swedes receive their water from supplies that are affected by PFAS. We need strong action here, and that is clear. Secondly, between 4 000 and 8 000 cubic metres of litter float annually on the west coast. This causes large costs for the municipalities concerned and is a major problem for both the housing and the local business community. Taking care of the marine debris is today a municipal responsibility. We believe that the municipalities concerned should be better supported, as well as the many voluntary initiatives taken in the work against marine litter. In August 2009, the Alliance Government set up the so-called LOVA support to support local measures to improve the aquatic environment. Over 700 projects were carried out within the framework of LOVA for the first four years, and the Environment and Agriculture Committee's review in 2014 says that LOVA is well-functioning. On the other hand, one shortcoming today is that LOVA does not cover all the measures that would be needed for better water management in all respects. The Moderates therefore propose that the LOVA support be broadened so that it will also be possible to receive support for measures aimed at reducing the problems of marine litter and microplastics. I therefore support the Moderates' reservation No 7. The sea is our common concern. It falls a little on its own absurdity that a few West Coast municipalities alone should bear the cost of international debris. Here I have to say that I am excited about the mapping that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is currently making of the marine debris and its sources. It shall be completed by 15 June 2017. I'm glad the government has listened to the Alliance's announcement about marine debris and set up the investigation. My colleagues in the committee also continue to intervene on this subject. Mr President, I would like to Thirdly, and lastly, if we are to deal seriously with the health of the Baltic Sea, international efforts are also required. The chemical bill, LOVA support and marine national parks are Sweden's contribution. But others must also do their part. For example, look east. It is not self-evident that the same considerations are taken into account as in Sweden. Emissions from Russian Kaliningrad, with only 1 million inhabitants, account for a phosphorus emission of 300 tonnes annually. It is, in order to put it in context, as much as the whole of Sweden's phosphorus emissions with ten times more inhabitants. The water in Kaliningrad shows residues of oil products that are 1,000 times above the Russian limit, according to Transparency International. Phosphorus content is more than 50 times that allowed. Solutions are needed to promote new technologies, international cooperation and joint responsibility for the Baltic Sea. In the specific case, we can also mention follow-up and accountability. The money allocated should be used in a cost-effective way and is characterised by additionality. One can easily wonder where the 140 Sida million who have been pumped into Kaliningrad have gone. Here's the answer Romson and Lövin owe. Mr President, I would like to On these three issues, I think we can struggle, and we can come back to them later. On the other hand, I hope that we can continue to agree if the report deals with the Water Directive. I think it is a strength that the committee shows a great deal of unity here. Cost-effectiveness should be high on the agenda when implementing the measures. The measures should be combined with a holistic approach that also looks at jobs throughout the country and competitive agriculture. It is a balanced text of the report. I'm glad we agree. Now it is also important that those on the other side of the water from the Parliament building are united. Mr President, I would like to There's a lot to say about water management. It is perhaps because the solutions to the problem are a whole toolbox. In conclusion, I would like to say that much has been done, but we are not yet in goal. For the government that wants to see the living seas and streams there is still a big job to do.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-232	Mr President, I would like to First of all, on behalf of the Swedish Democrats, I would like to support our reservation No 6, Oxygenisation of the Baltic Sea. We also support the other claims we have from the Swedish Democrats. First of all, I would like to say that it is very gratifying that in committee, apart from the Left Party, we have agreed on a common position on the Water Protection Directive. I will come back to that question a little later in my speech. Mr President, I would like to Eutrophication, in particular the supply of nitrogen and phosphorus, causes oxygen deficiency, bottom death and algal bloom to an extent that can often be described as alarming. The sources of eutrophication may be different. It can be air discharges, unclean drains, nutrient leakage or the internal impact of the already existing dead seabeds located mainly in the southern Baltic Sea. The problem is not new. Regional initiatives to reduce nutrient leakage have been under way in the past. In this context, mention is made of the Helsinki Committee, or Helcom, which was established in 1974. It is a forum for coordinating environmental issues related to the Baltic Sea, covering all nine EU countries with the Baltic Sea coast. Science provides several explanatory models for why the Baltic Sea is overfed, which in the next step leads to different theories about which measures are most effective to counteract eutrophication. From a political point of view, we think it questionable that we as politicians should dictate which measures should be prioritised over others. Certainly, we are in favour of a continued restrictive approach to nitrogen and phosphorus emissions from sources to countries. For example, we are in favour of further attempts with structural calcification that can reduce nutrient leakage from certain types of soils. We believe that the work of voluntarily minimising nutrient emissions from agriculture and other sources is the best way to work for it, and that should in principle continue. KTH Royal Institute of Technology has conducted and is conducting several experiments in energy technology and the environment. In several parts of the Baltic Sea, including the Gulf of Finland, there have been several experiments with oxygenation pumps powered by a generator that takes its energy from the waves, i.e. a self-propelled system. It's a very interesting attempt. As also mentioned in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's report, there are other attempts involving aluminium with bottom sediments to prevent phosphorus emissions. Here, for example, residues from lime quarrying can be used. That's an interesting part. In some lakes, for example, low - flow dredging has been tested, and organic matter from sea or sea bottoms is tested. Biomass withdrawals by, for example, extracting fish, algae and seaweed are also interesting. So the Swedish Democrats do not take a position in principle in a scientific discussion. On the other hand, we want to set aside funds, and do so in our budget, for more major pilot projects aimed at reducing eutrophication. Exactly how these funds are to be allocated should be determined by a Council with strong scientific support. Mr President, I would like to On 20 February 2015, I had a debate in the Chamber with Åsa Romson on the Water Directive. It was, I know, the first time it was highlighted in this way in the House. Since then, there has been an extensive formation of opinion, and several municipalities, water authorities and the Swedish Board of Agriculture and others have joined forces and asked the government to make a decision on the matter. Full implementation of the proposed action programme to comply with the WFD would have far-reaching consequences for Swedish food production. The effect would be, among other things, that more than 150 000 hectares of productive arable land would be converted into wetland and an additional 50 000 hectares of field would risk extensive and limiting cropping rules. In addition, there were demands for the re-evaluation of perhaps 2 000 small-scale hydroelectric power plants – that is, by the way, something that operates today – and also almost 365 000 individual sewers. In both cases, it is a question of billions in costs for the rural population and the activities linked to rural areas. Sweden chose in 2004, unlike other EU countries, to make environmental objectives legally binding by raising environmental quality standards to Swedish law. The regulation is unclear, and there is a great risk that these requirements will have far-reaching legal consequences for individual property owners and lead to a loss of competitiveness for Swedish farmers. At the same time, measures under the Environmental Code must not cause non-proportional costs, which means that a cost must not exceed the environmental benefit. There's a built-in conflict here. Mr President, I would like to We believe that the Swedish regulatory framework should be amended so that the objectives of the framework directive for ecological status are formulated as an environmental objective, while the EQS should be reserved for limit values for minimum acceptable environmental quality. This is how we work in the rest of the Nordic countries, and we need to reach a consensus with the other Nordic countries. There are more questions that are unanswered, such as how the measures are to be financed. The proposal for a management plan for the Western Sea Water District for 2015 2021 states that: The main principle must be that when the polluter/user can be identified, it should also bear the bulk of the costs of the necessary measures. This in turn requires significantly increased resources for supervision and review of authorities and municipalities. ..................................................... So here we are talking about ineffective measures to be implemented using methods that do not belong to the rule of law. It places the full responsibility for the implementation of the WFD on the knees of agriculture or rural areas and turns a blind eye to all the other environmental problems that we have in our waters today. Swedish agriculture is at the forefront when it comes to protecting the environment. It is not additional charges or additional snares that need to be made for the production of social benefits, but must work on a voluntary basis. Successful environmental work and action programmes must be based precisely on this trust between actors, local participation and compensation from the state for the additional costs that the individual trader or property owner can incur. We must also give priority to environmental benefits linked to costs. Here I can highlight adapted protection zones as a cost-effective and good example of how to work. Mr President, I would like to The water authorities have now developed a draft programme of measures and management plan for 2016 – 2021. The action programmes will now be examined by the government. According to a statement from the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the goal is for the government to make its decision before the summer of 2016. Personally, I doubt whether the present government can do this, but more miracles have happened in the past. As I have mentioned in my speech, we in the Swedish Democrats believe that the Water Directive and its proposed measures must be characterised by cost-effective measures. There should be a balance between a good aquatic environment and sustainable and competitive agriculture and forestry. Furthermore, we believe that water authorities should always carry out impact assessments on agricultural and water activities. The Swedish implementation of the WFD needs to be reviewed so that important societal interests can be weighed politically against each other. It must be possible to combine good water quality with Swedish food production. Mr President, I would like to The viability of agriculture and forestry is a prerequisite for living rural areas. Rural conditions and green industries are therefore at the heart of our pro-Sweden policy.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-254	I'd like to welcome the Prime Minister.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-256	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, you should have the right to be exactly who you are. It should be safe for everyone, regardless of gender, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation and age. ..................................................... It's important. These are Swedish values, and this is how they are expressed in the latest government declaration. But in the last week, we have first seen that the Prime Minister has refused to distance himself from the government's dealings with extremism and then, just today, that the government has not understood how women can feel offended by not being taken in hand for the simple reason that they are women. My question is: Why has the Prime Minister not dissociated himself from the government's dealings with extremism, why does he not distance himself more clearly from violations and why does he not defend Swedish values better?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-259	Madam President, I would like If we skip the moderate rhetoric, we can go on what is important: the government has no connection with extremists. Mehmet Kaplan has resigned as Minister of Housing. He asked to be dismissed. I shared his opinion that it was unwise to sit at dinner with extremists. He didn't do that as a representative of the government. The contacts that have been with Millî Görüş are not good. Nor is it the statement about Nazi Germany and Jews. But to draw it to say that the government is associated with extremists is poor moderate rhetoric. However, I welcome a discussion that we need to conduct very broadly in Sweden about what values, what values, should characterize Sweden. What I have built up throughout my political life and not least what I as a Social Democrat stand for is that we should shape a society based on democracy and on people's equal value and right. I want to see a society in which free and equal people live in solidarity. That's the foundation. That's where I pick up all my political nutrition, and that's my political year of control. That is also the basis of the government's work. There is no doubt whatsoever about what the government stands for or what we want Sweden to be characterized by. What has happened has been unwitting. I've expressed it. That's also why I gave my resignation.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-265	Madam President, I would like How complicated can it be to answer a question directly? How difficult can it be for the country's Prime Minister to distance himself clearly from extremism and violations against women and to defend Swedish values? I think this House deserves a clear answer to this question. It's actually the Prime Minister's Question Time. Then it is we who ask the questions, but it should be the Prime Minister who answers – straight and clear.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-267	Madam President, I would like I think that line was done. I gave very clear expression to what applies, what values apply. Of course, women and men also have the same rights in Sweden. I've said that I stand for people's equal value. For me, it's the same for Anna Kinberg Batra, but for me, it's the same as for women and men to have the same opportunities. This also means that in Sweden you greet each other; you take both women and men in hand. Women must have the same right to work and the same right to development in the labour market. That is why I am proud to lead Sweden's first feminist government – the world's first feminist government. In fact, it should also be able to express its opinion on your alliance.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-271	Madam President, I would like A week ago, the Prime Minister commented on the former Minister of Housing's now famous dinner with these words: a minister has a responsibility to act in such a way that there is no doubt as to what organisations or values they represent. It is therefore deeply regrettable that Mehmet Kaplan ended up in that company and he has understood that he must be much more careful. ..................................................... Just now, the Prime Minister in the line shift with Anna Kinberg Batra said that the government has no links or links with extremists. I wish that were true, but unfortunately that is not the case. For a long time the Social Democracy has had intimate collaboration with the militant left in Sweden. As late as March 6, 2016, Expressen was able to reveal that the Social Democrats in Gothenburg have formed a collaboration with the Communist Party and Revolutionary Communist Youth. For a long time the Social Democrats have been a member of the Socialist International along with several of the world's most blood-defiled dictatorships. It is also a member of the Progressive Alliance organisation. Both organisations include the Palestinian Fatah Movement and the MPLA in Angola. The MPLA has for decades been guilty of human rights violations in the form of torture and executions. According to Human Rights Watch, the MPLA still carries out systematic repression with the imprisonment and supervision of and violence against opposition politicians and journalists. According to the German newspaper Der Spiegel, the Palestinian Fatah movement, which the Prime Minister himself invited to the S-Congress in 2013 and embraced in terms of dear sister party, has kept to a party-funded torture chamber in Gaza. The Palestinians have been denied democratic elections. You celebrate and pay terrorists. The armed arm of the organisation has been responsible for a series of bloody terrorist attacks against civilians, including children. In view of this, I would like to ask the Prime Minister how well he and his party feel that he and his party are living up to their own Council to be careful about what company they are in and to act in such a way that there is no doubt as to what values they represent.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-278	Madam President, I would like I assume that I will answer as Prime Minister, but I am also happy to answer questions about the Social Democratic Party. We have been pursuing an offensive in the Socialist International for a long time, for example, in order for it to be characterized solely by what we stand for and nothing else. F atah is included; that is quite right. But Hamas isn't part of it. Hamas, on the other hand, is labelled as a terrorist movement, and rightly so, and with it we have no connection. We stand up, as I said just now, for what will apply to Sweden. There is no doubt about this. I think it is a bit unfortunate when demagogy becomes so important to the opposition that attempts are being made to black out the Swedish government. It will not strengthen Sweden. It is good to have a review of the media, but to stand here and get almost a cross-examination of the Swedish Democrats feels a little strange. Here we have a party whose representatives have run around Stockholm's streets with iron pipes and called young women whores. Here we have a party whose representatives are standing next to the old Waffen-SS officers. Here we have a party whose representatives say that the media in Sweden is a threat to the nation. That representative is here to lecture me on democracy. That is totally unacceptable! You have such a bad record, such a bad story, that you, Mattias Karlsson, after this duel is over, should sit down and think about how to move on.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-284	Madam President, I would like I am the first to admit that we Swedish democrats have made mistakes in our history. I have also been the first to argue within the party that we should learn from these mistakes. The problem with the Social Democrats, Stefan Löfven, is that you do not admit that you are making mistakes– not even here, when you are confronted with the facts that you are cooperating with terrorists and murderers. A party that Stefan Löfven calls dear sister party holds its own torture chambers and has an armed organisation, the brigades of al-Aqsamartyrs, which go in and mow down children and young people at a bar mitzvah party in Israel. They're you and embrace and call dear sister party! We have made mistakes, but we have never cooperated with terrorists, murderers and torturers. You still do, even today. If you're going to learn from your mistakes, you have to admit them first. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: when you embraced Fatah and called them a dear sister party, did you know that they were engaged in violence and terrorism, or do you just think it is not important to investigate whether the parties with which you cooperate engage in violence and murder?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-288	Madam President, I would like I'll take it one more time. We stand up for democracy. We reject terrorism. I reject terrorist attacks – of course also those taking place in Israel. There is no doubt whatsoever about this. If there are any who have stood up throughout modern history for democracy and the equal value of people, it is the labour movement. There's no denying it. We are the ones who stand up for this. To then accuse us of having dealings with terrorists and murderers is something that I think Mattias Karlsson will have to eat later. I would like to remind you of the history of the Swedish Democrats. You've never learned. Event after event makes it clear where you have your roots. You have your roots in Nazism and fascism. You're not coming from that, unfortunately.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-291	Madam President, the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. It has been said many times, but it is true that the climate issue is the great challenge of our time. If we don't change our way of life, we will destroy the conditions for life on this planet. Very much indicates that we have less time than we thought. It is urgent to reduce emissions. At one level, the climate issue is horribly complex and requires comprehensive action. On another level it is quite simple. Basically, the oil and coal contained in the soil cannot be absorbed and incinerated. If we take up the reserves we know about, we know that we are destroying the earth's climate and that it will not last. At the moment, such a matter is on the government's table. These are coal deposits corresponding to 24 years of Swedish greenhouse gas emissions. It is by far the biggest decision on any climate issue that this government will take. It's about Vattenfall's possession of German lignite and what's going to happen with it. Vattenfall proposes a sale to the Czech company EPH. EPH has no positive environmental reputation at all, on the contrary. Their business idea is to dig up as much coal as possible, burn up as much coal as possible and stretch against the closure of the coal mines. They believe in a renaissance of coal power. They speculate on destroying the earth's climate. This would be a devastating mistake. It would also characterize the whole picture of the government Stefan Löfven on the climate issue. You have said that Vattenfall would not be allowed to open new mines, which one has the right to do. But EPH says that you should not only dig out the mines that exist but also use the option to open new mines, to which Vattenfall is entitled, with new emissions in Germany. Is that really true, Stefan Löfven? Can you agree to such a deal?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-295	Madam President, I would like Yes, climate change is a fundamental issue for the future, not least for our children and grandchildren. That is why we are taking hold of the climate work. It must be dealt with in a structured, systematic manner and with objectives of what we are going to achieve. We will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. That is a very tough objective for this government, and I take on that task with pride and determination. As far as Vattenfall is concerned, I would like to point out that that company has a mandate from this House. It is to operate under market conditions. Vattenfall has a board of directors and management with the task of managing the company. When the government took office, we were clear about Vattenfall: We want to raise the climate ambition for Vattenfall to increase the share of fossil-free energy production. But it is the board and the management that must take on that task. When we took office, we received a Vattenfall that owned these lignite estates. Now Vattenfall's board and management have received a bid from a company. We will make a very careful examination of that commandment. We do not intend to do as the bourgeois government and just make a few calls and then it is clear – so did Nuon, and so Sweden probably lost SEK 90 billion. We intend to make a very thorough review of the bid, because we are obliged to do so according to ownership coordination. That's how we handle it. Once we have done so, we will come back with information about how the government views the deal.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. That was an answer, but still not, because the big question hangs in the air: Will you at all think about the climate when you go through the bid, or is it a cold calculation of how many billions you send here and there? That is an absolutely crucial question. If you think about the climate, it is not possible to sell to a company that lacks environmental ambitions, has links to tax havens and fiffles of various kinds and explicitly states that you want to open new mines. The question remains: can we sell to a company that uses the option to open new mines? Is it not to say with open eyes that we burn off several years of Sweden's emissions? You can repair how many refrigerators or bicycles you want with different subsidies – it weighs quite easily in this context. You make a mistake in the big, but right in the small. My question remains: what about the possibility of opening new mines, and what about when you look at the deal—will you allow the climate to play a role? It is only when the climate is allowed to be more important than the profit that we have really come somewhere.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-303	Madam President, I would like As I say, we're going through the bid now. It should be analysed carefully. The Minister for Industry has said that it may take two months, because we intend to do this very carefully. Even the Left Party does not come from the fact that Vattenfall has been commissioned by the House. It says that Vattenfall will act on commercial terms. This means that the board of directors and management have the task of ensuring that they also make the best financial possible for Vattenfall. It's part of the task. It should be the best possible from both an economic and climate point of view. Nor can the West get away from the fact that lignite deposits are located in Germany. It has its own special conditions. I think Jonas Sjöstedt also understands that. Let's do the assessment and the search. Then we will return with a message.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-306	Madam President, I would like We are probably some who have noticed that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance and the rest of the government have recently been very happy and said that the jobs are coming and that it is going great for Sweden. In fact, the Prime Minister should send thank-you letters to the Alliance, because it is because of nine years of alliance politics that the jobs come. Now the Prime Minister smiles. You can look ahead and see what the Financial Control Agency says. What happens now that the policy of the Social Democrats and the Green Party becomes a reality? The forecasts say that labour supply will decrease, i.e. fewer will be looking for jobs in the next few years. The employment rate will decrease, i.e. fewer will work in the next few years. And unemployment will increase, that is, fewer will have a job to go to. In the election campaign and for quite some time the Prime Minister spoke carefully about his unemployment target: Sweden would have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. I note: nobody from the government is talking about it anymore. I understand that when I see the projections ahead. The really big challenge is about all those who have gone to Sweden right now, who have a lower education and who want to get the first job and contribute to Swedish society. This is where the government has very little to offer. From the Liberals' side, we have highlighted the issue of starting jobs. It is about ensuring that young people and those who come here can start with a slightly lower salary in order to get the first job and not end up in a dependency. The answer to that from the Prime Minister when it was debated in this House was not his own proposals, but to bark at our proposals. The Prime Minister then explained to the House that there is very clear research that lower entry wages lead to lower wages for the last quarter of the labour market. Is that right? The Chairman of the Financial Policy Council, John Hassler, commented on that statement. He has a pretty good view of research. He said whoever says it's bullshit. My specific question to the Prime Minister is: how is John Hassler wrong?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-314	Madam President, I would like There is American research that is very clear on this point. That's who I'm leaning on. Now Erik Ullenhag says that the government is so happy that unemployment is falling and employment is rising. Isn't Erik Ullenhag too? Aren't the Liberals happy when Sweden is doing well? Actually, you should be. Then they say: nobody in the government is talking about the EU's lowest unemployment. But the economic-political spokesperson for the Liberals must reasonably have read through the budget motion and the spring change budget. It makes it very clear that we stand by that very objective, because we have given ourselves 17 years to break unemployment. The only thing I hear in this House from the opposition is that it is so problematic to have a goal. You have to have a goal. You have to be focused. Then it is said that the forecasts show that this is not possible. Then I understand why it went so badly for the bourgeois government. Can Erik Ullenhag at least admit that when you resigned from government power in autumn 2014, we had a higher unemployment rate than when you took office? It was your great failure alongside the school results and the other that you failed to do. Now unemployment is falling. Employment is now increasing. And, yes, we see what the projections say. But a Social Democratic government is not content to arouse a motion, a budgetary motion, and to think that it has been resolved for the whole term of office. If that is how you acted during the government period, I understand why you failed. We write very clearly in the budget motion that we will continue to make proposals, because we are going to break unemployment. There is no law of nature that says that it is Germany that should have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. We will ensure that Sweden has it. I hope you think it is good that we have high ambitions.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-322	Madam President, I would like How interesting that the Prime Minister mentioned Germany! Today, a number of leading labour market researchers are writing on Dagens Nyheter's debate page. Learn from Germany, and ensure that we bring down unemployment and bring those who flee to our country into work! What's the headline? It is: Increased wage dispersion reduced German unemployment. Then there's a long curtain that's about it being right with the kind of startup job that the Liberals are proposing. Now learn from Germany, Stefan Löfven! Are they wrong here? Just now you said you'd look at Germany. Yes, Stefan Löfven, I'm happy. I am happy when Sweden is doing well. But it would be nice if the Prime Minister could point out that it was nine years of alliance budgets. Then there were a few weeks of social democratic politics. And since then, the Prime Minister and others have tried to explain to the Swedish people that everything is now moving in the right direction thanks to a few weeks of Social Democratic policy. I repeat my question, Stefan Löfven: on what points is John Hassler wrong?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-325	Madam President, I would like I repeat my previous reply. There is American research that is clear on this point. And that is not so hard to understand, because it is not possible to isolate part of the labour market and say: Right here and now we are going to lower wages, and that will not affect anyone else. Does anyone think so? Does Erik Ullenhag believe in a market economy? You should do it as a liberal. Then it is understood that if a company sees that others can employ at significantly lower wages, that company also wants to do so. Because if you do, you'll reduce the costs. Now the Liberals have decided that they should go in and lower wages. I'm just saying, keep Sweden from this! When it comes to going in from a political point of view and lowering wages, as the Liberals want, I say: Erik Ullenhag! Don't do that! Do not expose Sweden to that! Finally, with regard to what the Germans have done, it has also been shown that they have fewer hours worked in the country. This is not a good development if you want to ensure welfare.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-329	Madam President, I would like Values have been involved in this debate in previous interventions. Radicalisation and recruitment to violent extremism and Islamism are today a major challenge, a challenge in which our values are put to the test. There are schools and residential areas in Sweden where IS propaganda can be spread freely and schoolyards where a 14-year-old can be confronted with the question: Is it true that you do not support IS? There's talk of the concept of jihadi cool. It's support for IS. You talk about it in the circle of friends. That's the cool part. It's in. It is also part of a very well done, to use that word, propaganda from IS. It is well thought out and aimed at young people. In these environments, terrorists can recruit young guys and girls, which is extremely serious. The Swedish school cannot be quiet. We can't be quiet when we see IS propaganda spreading. We must ensure that we give knowledge that becomes counter-arguments that push back extremism. I believe, Madam President, that there are many who may find it difficult to relate to concepts such as Salafism, Caliphate, Islamism, Sharia and Jihadism. We must increase our knowledge of this totalitarian ideology if we are to succeed in combating it. Therefore, the Christian Democrats propose that the Living History Forum be given an expanded mandate to inform about the crimes of Nazism, Holocaust and Communism against humanity, as well as the violent Islamism. How does the Prime Minister view that proposal? It is about informing about Islamism and giving the Living History Forum this mission in order to increase knowledge and repress violent Islamism.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-335	Madam President, I would like I very much appreciate the fact that the issue raised by Andreas Carlson comes up. I appreciate that the previous government appointed the national coordinator Mona Sahlin, that we have continued that work and that we agree on it. Because it's about basic cleaning work in our Swedish society. I very much welcome that discussion. Mona Sahlin has been working on a structured approach for some time now, for example, that all municipalities should have plans, prepare and prevent as far as ever possible, so that we raise knowledge in schools but also in social services and among the police. It is about seeing the warning signs and that there is help and support for the parents, or someone familiar, who sees: Here it may be going in the wrong direction. That work will continue so that we have a coordinated work at national level, and we will have it at local level in the municipalities. I must admit that I am a little unsure whether we have made a proposal in the direction that Andreas Carlson refers to. I cannot take a position on the detailed proposal here – I think Andreas Carlson understands that. But there is no doubt that we need to step up our efforts also at national level to ensure that we increase our knowledge of extremism and terrorism and prevent it as best we can and preferably eradicate it, because that is not something we want to see in Swedish society. I will have to come back to the detailed proposal. But the ambition, the direction, I think is quite correct.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-340	Madam President, I would like I welcome the Prime Minister's answer. We also see the work done and done by the national coordinator against violent extremism. But we believe that we need to put more gears into this work in order to repress violent extremism and violent Islamism. There is a need for drop-outs, family support and cooperation with Muslim parishes. The work they can contribute is, of course, extremely important. We shall avoid a situation in which believing Muslims are suspected and where we have an increasingly polarised and politicised debate. However, concrete action plans are also needed to counter radicalisation in each municipality. Mona Sahlin presented information this week that this is available in only 7 per cent of municipalities. Work is too slow. There must be a greater demand for municipalities to assume their responsibilities, and I wonder how the Prime Minister wants to ensure that this work continues.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-343	Madam President, I would like We need to put in more gears. We are in complete agreement on that. There is a national strategy against terrorism. It also includes prevention. As I said, I share Andreas Carlson's view: it is about knowledge. It is about support, contacts and, not least, action plans. It is quite clear from what Mrs Sahlin says that we have not come far enough. Mona Sahlin two-year appointment as national coordinator will be completed soon, and the discussion on how to proceed is in full swing. One is the national and not least the local, that is to say to ensure that all municipalities have plans for this. But there is another perspective on that too, and that is the international perspective. What more can we do, for example within the framework of the European Union, to help ensure that we really strangle all forms of extremism and terrorism?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-348	Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship build Sweden strong, and more and more companies act globally from the second they are born. Leadwords are companies with scalability that are knowledge-intensive and with innovation power, and there are companies in these areas that are today flagships in Sweden. Spotify is an example. This innovative growth company says that political reforms are needed, that they are needed now and that they will otherwise be forced to leave Sweden, which is alarming. An important piece of the puzzle, in addition to powerful reforms for more housing and to achieve a better taxation of employee options, is about digital skills in school. The school will equip students for the future labour market. Digital skills are becoming increasingly important. Students must bring programming, entrepreneurship and innovation with them. If we do not focus there, tomorrow's young people will not be able to work in the companies that belong to the future, and I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: What concrete reforms does the government want to implement in order to increase digital skills in school?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-352	Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurship is crucial, and programming will be crucial. Here we have a major task ahead of us to ensure that programming is in place at school and benefits everyone, because this will be an extremely important future competence. In its national IT strategy for the school, the National Agency for Education is developing precisely how programming should get into the education in the best possible way. I look forward to that development; it will be absolutely crucial. What was a bit sad, however, was the previous government's period when the former Minister of Education Jan Björklund opposed this type of development in school. We became stationary for a number of years. That's too bad. But now we're going to deal with this, and I'd be happy to do it with the Center Party. This is what Spotify points to as one of the problems. The second thing they point to is housing. Spotify says that we need to have more housing, and that is why it is so important for us to meet this commitment as well.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-356	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. The government's goal is that Sweden will have the lowest unemployment in Europe by 2020. There are many who believe that this will be difficult to reach, and then we can see that the government has to sharpen its policies in a number of different areas, not least in terms of education policy. It is not good enough that companies that create jobs in Sweden are forced to leave the country because politics is not able to cope with the changes that are needed. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to increase the time for IT in school, when, as I understand that the Prime Minister also says, programming is to be introduced as a creative subject in the Swedish school.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-358	Madam President, I would like I can't stand here and tell you how many hours of IT or programming you're supposed to have in school. It is managed by the responsible Minister of State. What I'm saying is that we should have programming in a natural way in school, because it will be an important future competence. The fact that education policy would have deteriorated is not true. It was during your reign that school results fell so dramatically. We're working it out now. We have to turn it around. Sweden should raise its level of knowledge, not lower it.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-360	Madam President, I would like Everyone paying their taxes is an important part of the Swedish model. The global tax evasion that has been revealed in Panama documents and other publications has upset a great many people, not only in our country but around the world. The fact that those with the highest income and wealth so often and clearly go around laws and morals for their own gain is a threat to social solidarity. In the latest proper estimate of the tax error in Sweden, it was estimated at 133 billion. At European level, we are talking about 1 000 billion.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-364	Madam President, I would like It is correct that the Swedish model is based on the fact that if you have an income you pay tax, a little different depending on what you earn. You're supposed to do the right thing. There are few things that undermine tax morality so greatly that some do not do their part, and that is why I am surprised that the Moderates show such complete disregard for the fact that high-ranking Moderates in recent weeks have been involved in stories about tax planning and tax evasion. It would be reasonable to hear from that side a very clear mark. We, the government, are making very concrete efforts. We have gone after the transport industry to make it work better, and that also applies to the construction industry. What we are doing now is to introduce human resources workers also in car workshops, wholesale food trade and in beauty care, all of course to curb undeclared work. We are also engaged in a very active international effort to bring about more agreements for the exchange of information.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-369	Madam President, I would like The government has set itself the ambition that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. A shift in the transport sector in order to break fossil dependence and reduce emissions is both necessary and possible. As emissions of climate gases decrease in other sectors, developments in the transport sector are becoming increasingly crucial to our ability to address the climate challenge. One third of national greenhouse gas emissions today come from transport. 80% of the fuel is still fossil. There is now rapid technological development, and the market for fossil-free alternatives is growing. Here Sweden has both environmental and economic benefits of being at the forefront.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-373	Madam President, I would like I share the view that this is a very important issue for the government. We have said that we will become one of the world's very first fossil-free welfare countries. We know then that it is extremely important for us to succeed precisely in the transport sector, because it turns out that about one third of climate emissions come from there. We know that about 80% of vehicle fuels are fossil fuels, so we have a very clear chord there. That is why we want to bring about this change through some strategic orientations. One is to have much more energy efficient travel and transport. The second is to work with renewable energy sources. The third is to go directly to electrification, which is by far the purest. Some of the efforts we have made are to increase the allocation for railway maintenance to ensure that we have more transport by rail rather than by road. We have new funds for the car premium. This year we are introducing an electric bus premium which is another step on the way. There are some concrete reforms to achieve this.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-377	Madam President, I would like Paula, 14 years old, from Västerås, is in the gallery today. In November, when she turns 15, she intends to take the hunter's taxamen and with her father and perhaps also her older brother, if he is lucky, to go hunting. She can't buy her own guns for hunting until she's 18 years old, and that's probably in all parts right and right. However, she has drawn attention to the debate that is currently taking place, particularly within the European Union, on changing arms laws. She wonders if the Prime Minister will work for and believes it is possible that it will be possible to buy semi-automatic shotguns for hunting purposes even in Sweden when she turns 18.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-379	Madam President, I would like Work is under way to see how that directive is to be implemented in our own arms legislation. The creation of the right rules in the EU is essential. It sounded like semi-automatic weapons would be banned for a while. However, with the work of the Swedish Government and the work of others, I believe that this is not the case without the full automatic weapons. Then there may be other weapons that may be in the grey area or weapons that can be redistributed that we have to watch out for. There are weapons that we absolutely do not want. They have also been used in very serious terrorist crimes. But there is no doubt that Swedish hunters should be able to continue their activities. I see good conditions for us to come up with a result also at European level that will allow hunters to continue hunting. I think Paula should look to the future with confidence.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-382	Madam President, I would like It has been an eventful week, and my question is based on the press conference held on the resignation of the former Minister of Housing. In connection with this press conference, a number of questions were raised regarding the examination prior to the appointment of the Minister of State. The Prime Minister replied that a thorough examination was carried out in the form of a battery of questions to which the proposed ministers themselves have been asked. The Prime Minister also admits that it may not always be the case that everything comes out. Does the Prime Minister think that it is still an appropriate expression to call something a thorough examination when the facts that can easily be found with a googling do not come to light? Or does he acknowledge his previous incompetence? If so, what changes will be made to future review procedures for the appointment of new ministers?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-385	Madam President, I would like When forming a government, the conditions for those who may be considered as ministers must be carefully examined. That review is based on two things. One is questions about the facts that must be asked, but the other is also based on the fact that the person answering the questions expresses everything that is possible to express. We've done a thorough review. I'll take care of it. It took time, and it was time well spent. Unfortunately, I do not think anyone will come into a situation where exactly all situations and all eventualities have been covered. Unfortunately, I think that will be the case. Nevertheless, one must be as careful as one can be in order for this not to occur. We've done that job. Now we have a situation where a minister has been dismissed.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-389	Madam President, I would like Spotify recently wrote an open letter pointing out that it is very difficult to build a really large company from Sweden. It is therefore considered to move and expand in other countries instead. One thing Spotify points out is employee options, that is to say the possibility of making employees a partner. The proposal that has been made in an investigation limits the number of industries and also the size of the company. I think it's a mistake. Digitalisation creates startups in all industries, and it is needed in all companies of any size. I think there is a chance to build our time Ericsson and Volvo, but they may be named Spotify, Izettle or Klarna. We only have that chance if we listen to the warning signals. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do that? Is Prime Minister going to back up Spotify?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-393	Madam President, I would like Mr Spotify raised a number of issues, in addition to the one already discussed on IT strategy and programming, and raised, among other things, the important issue of housing. That is why we are responding to this demand. We are increasing housing construction considerably. We need to increase it even more. Here we have a great commitment, because people must be able to move to where the jobs are. It is therefore tragic that during the last term of office, for example, the construction of rental apartments in this city where Spotify works was reduced. The decrease was 20,000. Thankfully, the new management of the city has decided to build another 20,000 rental apartments. Then it'll be easier for Spotify. The investigation into employee stock options was set up by the previous government with instructions from the previous government. Now the investigation has delivered proposals under those directives. Now we have to choose either to deliver those proposals, take them on and start the job, or to start over with a whole new investigation. We are preparing the issue now, but we need to be aware of what the alternatives are.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-398	Madam President, I would like The sale of Vattenfall's lignite is the biggest climate issue the government has to deal with. In the previous reply to Jonas Sjöstedt, the Prime Minister said that it will be a good business economically, but it will also be the best business from the climate point of view. Are the two dimensions at the basis of the government's decision on possible sales economy and climate responsibility? If it were to turn out, Stefan Löfven, that these Czech billionaires who want to buy Vattenfall's assets are totally ruthless tax fifflers, based in tax havens, figure in Panama Papers and have zero environmental liability, would that affect the government's assessment in the deal?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-401	Madam President, I would like I think I said that Vattenfall is governed by the clear mission of the House to act in business and to act as a company as environmentally friendly as possible. It is now reported that you should proceed with. If the deal is going to happen, it's in the process of being evaluated. There is a prospectus for this, and it must be evaluated. Then I shall not stand here in the speaker's chair and say one or the other before that evaluation has been made. We'll take our time. We are not going to repeat the mistakes of the previous government once again and careless ourselves through a deal and then stand there with an expensive bill, but we are going to do this as carefully as it ever goes. That's why it's gonna take a couple of months. That'll be my answer.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-404	Madam President, I would like The government has stated that it wants to improve opportunities for people to live and work in rural areas. We know that a well-developed broadband infrastructure is important to enable businesses to operate and thus enable people to live and work in rural areas. In the Rural Development Programme, the government is investing 3.25 billion in broadband by 2020 and 1.4 billion in regional funds. What we now see is that the applications that have been submitted far exceed a total of just over SEK 4 billion. It is the same in Kronoberg County as in the rest of the country.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-407	Madam President, I would like It's true that Monica Haider says the government has committed 3.25 billion. It's a doubling since before. It is a substantial increase, and it is extremely important. As Monica Haider points out, many applications have been received, which is fun. That's a good thing. We must now ensure that the Swedish Board of Agriculture is able to process those applications clearly. Then we will see if more needs to be done. I cannot promise this, but we will of course follow this as closely as we will to see if everything is going well. After that, we will have to consider what needs to be done. Broadband is extremely important. We have also done other things to facilitate broadband roll-out, including that that which is contiguous. We are talking about a number of major investments, not least in the north. We have also put forward a proposal for cheaper and more efficient construction and digging.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-412	Madam President, I would like This government calls itself feminist. The words are many and beautiful. Concepts such as gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting are used. But it is one thing to claim that one has certain values and another to live up to them. In reality, there are Swedish authorities that have laid the ground for behaviour that is very far removed from the principle of the equal value of all people. We have a government that believes that the boards of stock exchange companies are our biggest equality problem, while there are ministers who do not even see the problem of people refusing to take women in hand. Does the Prime Minister dare to tackle the real problems of gender equality? Does the government dare to act against authorities that accept values based on the fact that not all people are equal just because these values are culturally or religiously motivated?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-416	Madam President, I would like I lead the world's first feminist government, and I'm very proud of it. This means, among other things, that we will not present a budget until we have actually gone through it from the point of view of equality. We state to the authorities that they must also meet gender equality requirements and show how they do it. We have broadened this. I believe that it is 40 – 50 authorities that are now subject to this requirement. We'll take this further. I think it is important that stock exchange companies also tighten up on this point, because stock exchange companies are part of our society. Then you can ask why the Moderates were so keen on keeping a custody allowance that everyone knew was there for women to be at home and away from the labour market, why the Moderates do not think that salary mapping on more companies is important and why the Moderates want to cut welfare that is so incredibly important from the point of view of gender equality.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-420	Madam President, I would like Regarding what the Prime Minister said earlier to Mattias Karlsson, I would like to remind you that the only high-ranking politician whom I know has been convicted of assaulting immigrants in intoxicated condition and screaming racist havoc is former SSU President Anna Sjödin. After Paula Bieler's question to the Prime Minister, I can state that the government does not even google the intended minister and does not even think about doing so in the future, which is frightening to me. But that is not what my question was about. Madam President, I would like In view of the circus environmental party and the obvious lack of judgment of the Environmental Party's leadership, my question is: Does the Prime Minister have full confidence in all the ministers, including the environmental party ministers Gustav Fridolin and Åsa Romson? It is a very simple question, and it must be able to respond to by a prime minister.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-423	Madam President, I would like The answer is yes.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-424	Madam President, I would like Death to the Armenian dogs, and let the blood flow! These were the words spoken in Sergel's square a few weeks ago by the representatives of the Turkish Federation. It is an alliance with which Mehmet Kaplan, who also refuses to recognise the Armenian genocide, has had a great deal of association. Madam President, I would like Two years ago, Stefan Löfven and I stood at the New Year's celebrations of the Association of Assyria. Then Stefan Löfven said: If you Swedish-Assyrians vote for me and I become Prime Minister, I promise you that I will acknowledge the Armenian genocide, also known as seyfo. Now that you have come to power, you have buried the issue in reports. Instead, you choose to be the lapdog of the Turkish state. You would rather enter the Security Council than stand up for humanity. My question is: will you acknowledge this and take a decision on the matter before the Security Council elections will take place?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-428	Madam President, I would like As far as the last question is concerned, I cannot tell you here when different decisions are to be taken. All decisions shall be prepared and all decisions prepared in the order in which they are to be prepared. We want to enter the Security Council to stand up for human rights. The Security Council is a very important body in the work of the UN, and it is the only body where binding decisions are taken. Then it is reasonable that Sweden is there, we think. Sweden is the sixth or seventh largest contributor to the UN system. That is why this campaign is extremely important. It is by no means the case that the Swedish Government is slowing down its foreign policy in order to enter the Security Council. We are strengthening foreign policy because we want to join the Security Council. Sweden has a position out there in the world that we should be very proud of and take on.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-432	Madam President, I would like Youth unemployment has, I am pleased to say, decreased, but there are still far too many young people who are idle. An interesting concept is NEET. These are young people who do not work or study. I think the most important thing is to ensure that these young people get into activity. In many cases it is positive that young people study, even if they do not work, because it increases their chances of getting a job later. Above all, it is very important to get the youngest group, the 16 - 18 - year - olds who are going to high school. But even in the case of those up to 25 years of age who are included in the concept of NEET, it is important to ensure that as many people as possible get into education or work.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-435	Madam President, I would like We have set a very tough target for breaking unemployment. We shall have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. We have made it difficult because we have also done what the previous government did not do. We care about young people who do not work or study. Now we have started a work that Ylva Johansson leads. It is a collaboration where Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities are involved. A survey is now being carried out around Sweden in all municipalities. I have looked at a number of these surveys. We are doing these surveys to find out who these young people are and how many they are, so that we get a snapshot and a picture of how big the commitment is. In addition, we are moving forward with action plans. What do these youths need? Some may be ready to sit back on the school bench for a secondary school education. Some may need to have upper secondary education combined with internships. And maybe some people need a third trip. Everyone should have opportunities. That is the great advantage when a Social Democratic-led government leads the work.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-439	Madam President, I would like At the previous Question Time with the Prime Minister, Liberals' group leader Erik Ullenhag was concerned about the children who are on the run and the fact that the government wants to divide families with children. The Prime Minister's answer was that social services are under so much pressure because of all the unaccompanied people that it no longer goes and exemplified that the entire social services, all social security secretaries, resign. The municipality that was then on the wallpaper is one in my own county Örebro län, Ljusnarsbergs kommun. I know that the reason for the redundancies was not the refugee crisis, but an employer who for a long time has not provided the right conditions in terms of either pay or further training. Those who work with unaccompanied minors are in fact the only ones left. My question is whether the Prime Minister's overall assessment is that it is okay to use social secretaries as a weapon in the refugee debate in a way that does not correspond to reality.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-443	Madam President, I would like Exactly what it was like in Ljusnarsberg I have never spoken about. On the other hand, we have been given testimony that social services are under a lot of strain. I myself have been talking to some representatives of social services, and they describe just that. And that's no wonder. It is a huge commitment when children come to our country that we will take care of. 30 000 – 35 000 children arrived last year. Of course it's a huge commitment. So it is from a reality that I describe this. What we are doing, unlike the previous government, is giving the welfare workers opportunities. It is about SEK 10 billion for municipalities and county councils this year. Now we have said that we will ensure that they get it forward as well. Then they have long-term prospects of being a good employer. Then tax cuts are not good enough. Now it is more resources for welfare that apply. We will then have better opportunities to provide better conditions for the workers, employees and employees of social services.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-446	Madam President, I would like Sweden has taken greater responsibility than any other country in the Western world in the most difficult refugee situation since the Second World War. We have taken a great deal of responsibility, and I, as a Social Democrat, am very proud of that. But no country alone can meet that challenge. That is why the government, and not least the Prime Minister personally, has been committed to driving and changing the common refugee policy in the EU and working to ensure that all EU countries take a shared responsibility for receiving asylum seekers. The Prime Minister has contributed important progress in redeployment and priority to save lives and combat trafficking in human beings. But my question to the Prime Minister is what Sweden can do in the future to ensure that we have greater joint responsibility in the EU, so that more countries take their share of the responsibility.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-448	Madam President, I would like It is now important that this work not only continues but is completed. I am concerned – I will be honest and say – for Europe and the future of Europe. If we fail to fulfil this task, Europe will be greatly weakened. That is why we have been pursuing this policy where all 28 have to shoulder their responsibilities. Now the European Commission has put forward two proposals – two tracks, so to speak. One would be a more permanent solution, a permanent redistribution system, and the other would deal more with a crisis in the event of a serious situation or a serious upturn in refugee flows. We prefer the first track. Then you see how far it can be reached, because, as you know, some are very reluctant. What we in the government are doing now, of course, is forming alliances with as many like-minds as we can – it is with the Germans, the French and others – and getting more and more people to say that we need a solution. We are working very actively for this.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-450	Madam President and the Prime Minister. We have been dealing with the issue of extremism and violent environments. It is not Sweden's only problem, but we have a major concern with returning terrorists who have cooperated with the Islamic State. The Liberals raised the issue last May, and most recently in October. We made demands on preparedness for how to handle those who return to Sweden. Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman then announced in an interpellation debate that we do not need to take any new action. Nor did it accept the Liberals' request to double the prosecution's resources so that we can investigate and prosecute more terrorists coming back. A week ago, however, the Swedish government decided to instruct the Swedish Security Service to step up work on the returnees. Why did the government say no to our proposal in October, and how can we prosecute them without the capacity of the prosecutor?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-453	Madam President, I would like After all, the government is constantly having a discussion with the authorities, including Säpo, about how the work is to be carried out, about the resources for the work and how the government can provide the best possible conditions in this case. It is, of course, on the basis of what is happening. So we're shooting at resources to Säpo. Then, as you know, we have legislation for the criminalisation of travel, as well as for the financing and preparation of travel. We tighten the passport law and provide more opportunities for authorities to exchange electronic information. We will also look at greater possibilities for data reading. So it is a broad grasp. It must be serious and structured. We will not give up in the fight against terrorism - never.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-455	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and fellow Members.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-456	Mr President, I would like to With this report, I would like to make two points I think are essential. The first point to note is that good water quality and the aquatic environment are an absolute necessity for life. It is therefore important that all actors work to minimise the impact on water. Part of this work is the implementation of the EU Water Directive. To this end, Member States have to define both good status and target and environmental quality standards. In addition, they shall establish management plans and action programmes to achieve good water status. In our country, the Water Authority has developed proposals for action programmes to achieve the objectives of the water directives under which we live. It is only to be noted that the proposed action programmes for the WFD are ambitious, and they must be so in order for us to achieve the objectives set. But, Mr President, the action programmes require political balances, and the question of balances is currently with our government. I am therefore very pleased that seven out of eight parliamentary parties have now supported, among other things, a central party motion that the Government should analyse how the socio-economic costs are linked to the Water Framework Directive action programme. It is also intended to promote the most cost-effective measures to achieve the objectives of the WFD and to ensure that the measures are compatible with jobs throughout the country, as well as a competitive agriculture and other environmental objectives we have set ourselves. Here I assume that the government, which has the decision in its hand, will indeed respond to what the Riksdag is now asking of it in almost total agreement. The second point I would like to make in this debate, Mr President, is the protection of our water resources. The Alliance government set up an investigation into this issue, because we all want safe and safe drinking water supply. Sometimes it requires the creation of so-called water protection areas. When areas are protected in different ways, this affects other activities and, above all, the landowner – the property owner – to a very large extent. This, in turn, is an influence and restriction on the property rights that are now constitutionally established in our country. That is why I think it is important that when it is necessary to establish this kind of protection – because it is sometimes – of this case water there are functioning dialogue models that also include the property owner and the land owner, who thus have a constitutionally protected ownership of their property. Here I think that the government must take on its responsibility to ensure that in the future work there is an improved dialogue in the work that sometimes needs to be done. It is also important, I think, that the financial costs that may arise from the fact that this type of protection will be allocated in a reasonable and fair way so that the property owner is also included in those who may be compensated for a loss of use of, for example, their property. We have expressed this in a reservation, and I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation No 11, Mr President.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-464	Mr President, I would like to This report is about how we can save our lakes, rivers and seas – how we can save these waters from eutrophication, depletion, large discharges of chemicals and other things. The situation is urgent. We know from the past that the Baltic Sea is one of the world's most polluted seas. About a third of the bottoms are acutely affected by oxygen deficiency and about a fifth are already dead. We know that many fish species are more or less depleted. And we know that the causes are large-scale industrial fishing, emissions from transport and industries, emissions from other countries which, of course, migrate here and not least our own agriculture. Another major challenge facing us, which is addressed in the report, is our rivers, which are mostly dammed with approximately 2 000 hydroelectric power stations and dams. It involves huge interventions in biodiversity and makes it difficult or impossible for the fish to hike and reproduce. It should be borne in mind that of the approximately 2 000 dams that exist, almost all have old permits, and most of the approximately 2 000 dams and hydroelectric plants are small-scale and produce a not very significant amount of energy. Now is the time for political action. Some have already been done, but of course more needs to be done. I welcome the fact that we in the Left Party have been able to back up quite a great deal of increased funding, both for the marine environment and for biodiversity in a broad sense. But we must continue to work, and it is not least a question of reducing agricultural emissions. There is a lot to do here. For example, we in the Left Party believe that there is a need for a tax on fertilizers. We must also ensure that emissions from transport are reduced and international cooperation intensified. It will also become increasingly important how we plan in the future, especially in the vicinity of watercourses. In light of this, I would like to draw attention to a judgment of the European Court of Justice last year that is commonly referred to as the Weser judgment or the Bremen judgment. Weser comes from the river Weser, which flows in Germany near the town of Bremen. In this case, a man wants to dredge and deepen the gutter in the river. The judgment weighed those interests against the EU Water Directive and stated that it should not do things that lead to deterioration in water quality. The judgment is now valid throughout the EU and will guide future planning and some court cases in Sweden as well. This case deals with the EU Water Framework Directive – what is commonly referred to as the EU Water Directive and which dates from the year 2000. It is not least about what demands we should make on hydroelectric power. We in the Left Party think it is a good idea that the existing dams and hydroelectric plants must have proper permits and that they must be fully in line with good water quality and our environmental objectives. This case also concerns the implementation of the EU Water Directive in a broader sense. After all, we know that we have not achieved the objectives of good water quality by 2015. When you read various evaluations, such as the assessments of the water authorities, you are quite horrified when you see that we are very far from achieving, for example, good ecological status in our watercourses. Then I have to ask one question to the other parties, because only the Left Party does not agree with the wording contained in this report. In the report, the bourgeois parties, the Swedish Democrats, the Social Democrats and also the Green Party say that the implementation of the EU water directive should ensure that it is the most cost-effective measures that should apply. They say that it should be taken into account that jobs should be created throughout the country. Account should also be taken of the fact that we shall have competitive agriculture and forestry. Now it is perhaps not someone who is opposed to cost-effectiveness, jobs, agriculture and forestry – all of that is important. But I still have to ask you parties: why should we make these specific demands on the implementation of the WFD? The Water Directive is, of course, simply a matter of having clean water. It is an environmental directive. Now you want to add various reservations and say that we cannot implement the directive directly, but first we have to balance it and see if it is really cost-effective and if it really creates jobs throughout the country. How the hell will the implementation of something in southern Sweden be able to create jobs in northern Sweden? I don't have a clue, but you're welcome to answer that. And in exactly what way should agriculture and forestry be taken into account? I have to say that the wording that you have agreed on is a mixture of self-evidentness and breaking open doors, but it is also pure nonsense and totally counterproductive from an environmental point of view. I would therefore like to put a question to the bourgeois parties, the Swedish Democrats, the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Those of you who have already spoken would be happy to ask for a line on me so that we can discuss this more. In implementing the WFD – I would like to emphasise that it is work in progress in the government and that the government intends to make a concrete proposal – it establishes environmental quality standards to have indicators and be able to make concrete assessments of the progress of the work. Is environmental quality standards good or bad? The polluter pays is a guiding principle in all environmental work in Sweden. Shouldn't they apply in the WFD? Shall we make up something new? I hope that good ecological status in all watercourses applies, but I do get quite uncertain. I would also like to ask you: what other environmental legislation should be provided with these reservations? The answer is due to the bourgeois parties, the Swedish Democrats, the Green Party and the Social Democrats, and I hope that I will get it.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-478	Mr President, I would like to It's hard to hold on when Jens Holm so clearly wants a line on this subject, and it's clear that if he's looking for it, he'll get it too. I would like to dwell on precisely what Jens Holm is talking about, namely the Water Directive and the need to strike some balance in the implementation of EU legislation. However, when a quite radical measure of this kind is taken, I think it is reasonable to look at other factors as well. It is well known, for example, that when building a house some land is used, and then biodiversity may decrease. But there are different goals that society pursues. We can take another subject that Jens Holm often and gladly talks about, and that I am quite involved in, namely the lime mining on Gotland. If you only go on scientific measurements and watch that some trees disappear so that it becomes a hole, it is clear that you should not be able to break lime. But then it is realised that the lime industry and the cement industry are important for us to be able to build houses in Sweden and have a living industry. I think that will be problematic if environmental responsibility is to be supreme in everything. If you are not going to look at any other factors, Jens Holm has to answer the question: what are we going to do about hydropower if large-scale hydropower is also affected, and what are we going to do about the cement industry, if it is going to move abroad? Is it not reasonable to look at other factors when making radical changes? Or is the environment the only thing we should look at in everything?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-482	Mr President, I would like to I listened carefully to your speech earlier, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. You sometimes made a beautiful description of the water and marine environment work in Sweden. But there were some flaws when you came to the conclusion that this work had to continue. Then it wasn't as concrete anymore. I did not hear any concrete proposals, such as the fact that the Moderates are backing up the government's and the Left Party's substantial increase in funding for marine environmental work and biodiversity in general. And when you talked about the LOVA grant, I didn't hear anything about the fact that for a year there was no money for this from the bourgeois government. But let's leave it at that. I think it goes without saying that we should make a reasonable assessment. It is inscribed in the environmental code, and it is guiding in all implementations of laws. I do not think there are any strange things, and that is why I said that your announcement is a mixture of obvious things, to wrap open doors and things that are purely counterproductive to the environment. I would like to hear from the Moderates: do you want to continue working on, for example, environmental quality standards in the water directive work? Is it the polluter who pays? Should good ecological status of all watercourses apply? What other environmental legislation are you prepared to give the reservations you have entered here?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-487	Mr President, I would like to When I read the Government's economic spring bill, I noted that many of the investments previously promised are now being postponed. There have been great promises, but now it is realised that it will not go at the pace that the government has promised. When it comes to large expenses, I think you should be careful not to beat your chest over how much money you spend. We now note that, with the red-green budget, deficits will be reduced in the coming years, in a situation where we should actually save. The surplus target is far away. In addition, the Financial Control Agency says that we will not be close to the balance-sheet target that the Finance Minister has spoken so warmly about. We have deficits throughout the economic cycle, which of course is serious. Let me return to my original question of what to prioritise. Jens Holm says it's self-evident writing. What, then, is the left-wing party reservation which is so distinct from the government which it actually supports and from the centre motion which forms the basis of the wording behind which the parties in the committee have supported it?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-490	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive answers to my questions about environmental quality standards, the polluter pays, good ecological status in all watercourses and other environmental legislation to put such reservations in. But perhaps there are other bourgeois politicians who want to respond to it later in the debate. If we make a law on climate adaptation, we do not require that law to create jobs throughout Sweden. It would be unreasonable to make such demands. When we implement the REACH regulation, which deals with chemicals, we do not say that the REACH regulation must lead to increased food production and increased productivity in forestry. It's a chemical law. The second is about the climate, and then we do it that way. Law enforcement always makes a reasonable assessment, and it will continue to do so. I note that the announcement continues to create more question marks than it corrects. Ultimately, I am afraid that marine environmental work will lose out on it.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-494	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating water conservation. It can be said that this is about long-term sustainable management of the seas, lakes and watercourses. I am in favour of Amendment No 2, in which the Liberals highlight the importance of maritime planning, but I am also, of course, behind the other two reservations in which the Liberals are present. Otherwise, I support the proposal in the report and, in particular, the announcement to the Government of the Water Framework Directive contained in paragraph 9. It is a clear and broad announcement. The starting point is, of course, that Sweden needs an ambitious programme of measures to achieve the objectives of the WFD. The water authorities' proposal for an action programme will now be examined by the Government, and this action programme extends from 2016 to 2021. Liberals' starting point is that there need not be a fundamental contradiction between a good aquatic environment and competitive, sustainable agriculture and forestry. First of all, we want to make that clear. The notice provides for the inclusion of the concept of ‘economic costs' and that these should be taken into account in the implementation of specific measures. As Jens Holm says, it is perhaps not so strange that one should prioritise the most cost-effective measures where one gets the most environmental benefit for the money. Basically, it is a matter of prioritising the right measures in the right order. Then we don't have to use the word. We can probably agree on that, Jens Holm. It also highlights the need for impact assessments on agriculture and water activities. It is important that we are clear on this point. We need to know what that means. When the action programmes are presented, we are talking about fundamentals such as the polluter paying and correcting them. Nevertheless, it is important to see what the consequences are. We now have action programmes, but we have not discussed the financial bases, that is, who should pay and so on. That's the next step. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to draw the House's attention to the fact that Parliament already decided two weeks ago to issue an announcement to the Government on the design of permit processes under the Environmental Code for hydroelectric power plants. This means, in conclusion, that it is very reasonable and necessary for all hydropower to have modern permits according to the environmental code. However, it requires that the actual regulatory framework for licensing processes for this can be adapted to the size of the business. Otherwise it will be directly counterproductive. The licensing processes themselves must not be so complicated and costly that there is ultimately no resources left to implement the relevant measures. These could be fish migration routes and many other measures to support biodiversity. Hydroelectric power stations should not be shut down because they are small, but because in some cases they cause environmental disturbances that cannot be remedied. I welcome the fact that the government parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party, have slipped a little on this issue and are in favour of today's announcement. That's good. Liberals think it is good that there is a water management investigation and that they continue to work on it as a basis and will present a proposal this autumn about water activities. Following the parliamentary decision that we made 14 days ago and the decision that we are likely to take today, the government has the ball, and it now has two clear positions from the Riksdag to address. It is important in this context. This is both about what was decided on the basis of the Committee on Civil Liberties and today's decision. Liberals, like many other parties, give high priority to marine environment and water issues. It is to be hoped that this report shows this, and this was well reflected in our draft budget for 2016. There we prioritised environmental monitoring and not least beach cleaning. We made a permanent grant to the municipalities to support precisely the necessary clearance of our beaches. There's a lot of junk coming together, not least along the Bohus coast. This morning you could read in one of Bohuslän's local newspapers that there is a reference area on the island Saltö outside Strömstad. It borders on Kosterhavet National Park, where measurements have been carried out under the auspices of the Nordsjö Commission since 2001. It can now be noted that the beach on Saltö is one of Europe's junkiest and that the amount of litter is increasing every year. We do not really know why, but we know that the garbage ends up in Bohuslän because the ocean currents swirl up and collect Europe's junk along the Swedish coast. The important thing is that things are dealt with at the source. There we have international cooperation within Helcom, OSPAR and so on, but it is only to be noted that it will take a long time before we overcome this. That's why cleaning is so important. It is a question of aesthetics, and not least of the fact that the tourism industry that is so important is suffering if we cannot keep our beaches clean. These are also more long-term problems as all plastic on the beaches breaks down and ends up in the cycles. Mr President, I would like to In today's report, the Liberals have three reservations. The first is with the other alliance parties, and it is about marine environmental work. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson described in a good way how the Alliance Government has worked on this issue. It is important that Sweden continues to be a driving force both regionally and internationally. The reservation also has a parallel to the announcement contained in the report. It's about how processes are to be done. We write that the authorities responsible for licensing and guidance under the Environmental Code should make efficient use of resources and put citizens and businesses at the centre. It is about dialogue between politics and authorities and between authorities and individuals and about making use of the knowledge that exists. In the second reservation, we Liberals point out that it is important to keep up the pace of maritime planning. The cornerstone here is that state maritime planning comes in place and is linked to municipal coastal planning. The fact that we have these important planning instruments in place is essential for us to be able to strike a good balance between all the claims made at sea. I can list fishing, shipping, tourism, aquaculture and energy production – wind and wave power – and these can be purely conservation interests in terms of ecosystems, biodiversity and certainly a lot more that I do not think about right now. We have another reservation. It is about our wanting to strengthen marine and water-related environmental monitoring. We have also prioritised this in our draft budget, in order to provide resources to the Maritime and Water Authority for this purpose. You can say a lot about water management. It's very close to my heart, but I'll settle for this today.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-519	Mr President, I would like to Water is our most important food. Without water, humans cannot survive more than a few days. In my constituency, Örebro County, there are many lakes and streams, as it does throughout Sweden. One of the most important lakes is Vättern, considered Europe's largest drinking water reservoir. We'll take care of it. Of course, the water has many different functions and uses. Seas, lakes and watercourses are the habitat of a very large number of organisms. Waterways are important as transport routes, and we also get electricity from hydropower. Lakes, rivers and other watercourses are also important for people's recreation. When designing water policy here in Parliament, we must therefore take into account a large number of factors. The 2006 EU Water Framework Directive provides a framework for the protection of inland, transnational and coastal waters. The purpose of the framework is to ensure good surface and groundwater status. In other EU Member States, these decisions are taken by governments. In Sweden, the decisions are delegated to the five water delegations. The decisions on water management involve a wide-ranging balance between different interests, with many billions at stake. According to the WFD, water management costs are to be weighed against the benefits of the measures. The Environmental Objectives Committee has stated that water delegations are not designed to make difficult policy balances between benefits and costs. This places great demands on impact assessments and, at the same time, balances of a political nature. We have good access to clean drinking water in our country, as well as plenty of natural environments for aquatic animals and plants of various kinds. In many other countries, especially in southern Europe, water is scarce. For these countries, the EU Water Directive is crucial to achieving good water status. Although water shortages occur mainly on Öland and Gotland, the situation in our country is different from that in many other countries. We need to bear this in mind when implementing the WFD in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish authorities' interpretation means that all obstacles to fishing in our watercourses must be reconsidered and preferably removed. Many of these dams have existed for centuries. Those dams that do not have permits under the Environmental Code must today apply for such permits. Often it is rejected. The Land and Environment Court of Appeal ruled in 2012 that old privilege letters and reminders cannot be equated with permits under the Environmental Code. Even those installations that were constructed prior to the introduction of a permit requirement must now apply for a permit, which I think is unreasonable. A consistent demolition of all dams that are considered to be unauthorised on the basis of the precedent of the Land and Environment Court would mean that primal arable land would be put under water, thus reducing the possibilities for food production while at the same time threatening high cultural values. One such clear example is Brevens Bruk, which is located in Örebro municipality. The ponds have been around for centuries. The mill has been around since the beginning of the 17th century. Today it is an important part of our cultural heritage and a real tourist attraction. When the mill decided to renovate its power station, which has existed since the 1930s, the County Administrative Board demanded, on the basis of the Water Directive, that the legality of the entire operation be tested, which ended in the mill being sentenced either to invest a multimillion in fish stairs or to tear down the dams to restore the environment in its original condition. That's what the verdict was. The removal of dams threatens to upstream drain lakes of water while at the same time leading to increased flood risk downstream. Ground water levels, and thus the water flow in nearby wells, are also affected. The Christian Democrats want the cultural environment, small hydropower and individual ownership to be upgraded. Of course, we support the focus on removing obstacles to migration for fish, but a case-by-case balance must be struck. We do not believe that individuals should take as much cost as they are now forced to do. The lack of public funding for privately owned installations results in individuals suffering financial consequences that are not proportionate to the importance of the measure. Individual dusters are forced to choose between investing millions of dollars or restoring the original environment, with extensive damage to the cultural environment, agriculture and third parties as a result. In cases where the demolition of ponds or the construction of a migration route for fish are indeed appropriate measures, these should primarily be financed by public funds. The grant rules of the County Administrative Boards should be amended to make it clear that even those dam owners who have been required to implement a given measure may benefit from State aid under so-called LONA grants. Such action is urgent as dust rippings are already in progress. Mr President, I would like to As far as marine environmental management is concerned, we note that the environmental situation in our seas is critical and requires far-reaching efforts and commitment to reduce emissions and environmental impacts. Measurement and monitoring of the state of the environment in Swedish seas and waters is necessary to obtain sufficient knowledge of the levels of harmful substances in fish and drinking water. The European Court of Auditors recently presented a report on the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. The conclusion is that the situation remains worrying. Continued measures are important to limit the leakage of nutrients into our streams that flow into the Baltic Sea. A good environment in our seas is also important for several industries, such as tourism and fishing. In order to achieve a long-term result, the work on generational and environmental quality objectives requires an effective government structure and governance. Measures are urgently needed to simplify and streamline permit granting and to provide review and guidance under the Environmental Code. Dialogue between the government and the authorities must also be improved. In our water policy, we need to take into account ongoing climate change. Sweden is affected by global climate change. In southern Sweden, rainfall will decrease during the summer months. We can then expect an acute drought not only on Öland and Gotland but also in other parts of southern and south-eastern Sweden. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to endorse the Alliance's reservation 1 on the work on the marine environment and the committee's other proposals, including the announcement to the government of the Water Directive in paragraph 9.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-539	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Left Party's Amendment No 8, which relates to the Water Directive. I apologise for forgetting to do so in my speech. Then I would like to ask Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell: in which other areas of environmental legislation and other legislation do you think that one should place reservations on the legislation which requires that it must also create jobs throughout the country, that it must also be good for agriculture and that it should always be cost-effective? Could that be the case in the field of chemicals legislation? Could that be the case if we passed a law on the disability adaptation of housing? Could that be the case if we passed a law banning dangerous substances in textiles? I think it is important for the Christian Democrats to respond to that. I think that the announcement that Lars-Axel Nordell has just called for in favour of raising a lot of questions about how far we can go in terms of progressive legislation.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-542	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We have a situation in which we have agreed – all parties in committee except the Left Party – on a wording that means that we see this as urgent. We have added that it should be cost-effective and that it should be appropriate. I think it is good that we have reached a common position and that we can approach the government with an announcement on this. I do not see the contradiction that the Left wants to paint, to put action against action, and that there would be a contradiction between, for example, this with jobs and having a better environment. On the contrary, we see more and more that it goes hand in hand. These contrasts need not be created. I think it is a good thing that we have been able to come up with this particular approach and agree on it. What Jens Holm is trying to question, I question.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-546	Mr President, I would like to It's getting a little weird. You're the one who's building this contradiction. If there was no contradiction with jobs throughout the country, with agriculture and with cost-effectiveness, then surely you would not need an announcement about it? It is you who send this signal to the government and say that this must be combined with jobs throughout the country and with an agriculture that produces food and that it must be cost-effective – otherwise you cannot do it. I can't draw any other conclusion. You, Lars-Lars-Axel, can explain to everyone who listens to this debate: What do you mean? If it is as you say, that there is no contradiction whatsoever – I can share that view, and that is why I am not raising these questions – why are you raising this?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-548	Mr President, I would like to If this is the way we heard in a previous debate, that Jens Holm thinks this is breaking open doors, then we should be able to agree to mark that this is important. It is because there are jobs and because there are hours worked that we fund our welfare. What we are talking about now is also part of the welfare. Welfare is not just school and social work. It is also about people having a well-being where they live and that we have a nature that is important and that is recreational areas. This is a whole. I'm sorry, but I don't see the contradiction Jens Holm paints. If we can now find areas that support each other, such as the Haga initiative, where companies see an advantage in making efforts in the environmental field, that is great. I think that the Left should embrace this, even though there have been doubts about private enterprise in the past. But from what I understand, the swing has begun, and I am pleased.
i-92hEDurc4C1A74c4LqhV2	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's motion for a resolution on water conservation. It covers many issues, including measures against eutrophication and marine pollution, measures relating to the WFD, measures to improve sewage treatment, dialogue models and, in particular, the WFD. Mr President, I would like to Water and water issues are central to how we humans are going to manage now and in the future. No one wants to see a poisoned water or sea. No one wants to see slimy and sometimes toxic water due to eutrophication. We all want biodiversity in our waters. There are no differences of opinion here in the Riksdag. The question is how. The water conservation movements span a large area, but I was going to concentrate on the announcement made by the committee. First of all, however, I would like to raise an issue that is constantly recurring as soon as the marine environment is mentioned, and that is the huge littering that is taking place in the sea. The other day I was out with the boat in the Bohuslän archipelago and went ashore on some islands. I don't think I've ever seen as much junk, especially plastic litter, on the beaches as this year. Something must be done, and it must be done internationally, in order to reduce and finally put an end to litter. Right now it's about getting the garbage off the beaches, and that's the main problem for the municipalities. We have discussed this issue over all the years that I have been a Member of Parliament. We Social Democrats had a system until 2006 where municipalities could use labour market measures to clean the beaches. This took the Alliance government skilfully away, and the municipalities paid 100 percent. Now the S- and MP-government has decided on a number of millions annually for the municipalities for beach cleaning, and once again the municipalities can use state funds in the form of labour market measures. We're not just talking about how bad it is about the municipalities that have to pay to take away the shit that others drop into the ocean. We will ensure that they receive financial compensation for the measures. This is contrary to what the Alliance Government did. The wonder is that every year, regardless of whether they are in opposition or majority, the bourgeois parties talk about the fact that the beach cleaning must be paid for by the state. But they just talk and talk and write and write without any thought of doing it. An example of this is Moderate motion No. 7 where they again come up with suggestions on how to compensate municipalities for the costs of beach cleaning. It is somewhat worse than the present proposal, but it is still a proposal. Mr President, I would like to How many times do the Moderates think you can fool the inhabitants of Bohuslän? The Moderates are talking about government money for beach cleaning, but never once during nine alliance budgets has there been a single penny. However, you remove resources for beach cleaning as soon as you access. I can't believe you're not ashamed of a single thing. If only you had had the sense to remain silent on the matter. No, you return year after year with empty promises that you have demonstrably never intended or intend to implement. Mr President, I would like to The announcement we are making today concerns the Water Framework Directive. There are few questions on which I, as a Member, have received so many conversations and made so many visits to the people concerned as with the WFD and the investigation into water activities. Some of these people are worried, and others feel more or less unwell from the way they feel that they have been treated by the authorities. It is people who are far from feeling listened to and who feel that they are being driven over and over again. They feel that the state's long arm in the form of county boards treats matters and persons differently in different parts of the country, which means that there is a risk that not everyone is equal before the law. There are county boards that have taken a very good approach to the issue, but there are also many county boards that receive strong criticism from operators. As a member of Parliament and elected representative, I have the task of paying attention to how citizens of society are treated and how our decisions here in Parliament are implemented. These are people I'm supposed to represent. It is people who have put their trust and democratic values in us here in Parliament. It is people who believe that it is politicians in parliament and government who rule but have been given the impression that it is the authorities who shape the rules of the game. That is why I am committed to this issue, and that is why we Social Democrats have supported the announcement of how we want the water directive to be implemented. Now that the government is making its decision, I am convinced that it listens and weaves in Parliament's views in a good way. What is stated in the announcement may seem obvious. The committee, like the government, believes that a good aquatic environment is not in contrast to sustainable, competitive agriculture and forestry. I think it is important to emphasise this. We do not believe that a good aquatic environment is in contrast to sustainable and competitive agriculture and forestry. The WFD action programmes are ambitious and need to be so in that we are not judged to achieve the objectives of the WFD in time. It can cost the country Sweden. The committee believes that the socio-economic costs of implementing the measures should be analysed, and then the most cost-effective measures should be prioritised. That is absolutely self-evident. Do you really have to write it? Yes, once I've gone around to the operators, I've realized we have to write it. Water authorities should propose how their proposals are to be financed and the costs involved should be clear. That is also self-evident. In addition, water authorities should carry out impact assessments of impacts on agriculture and water activities, as well as the possibility of jobs across the country combined with the achievement of environmental objectives. It does not say that it has to create jobs, it says that we should see what impact this has on jobs and other activities. The Water Operations Investigation has reviewed the current rules on water activities, the investigation's proposals have been referred and the proposals are currently being prepared within the Government Office. Two weeks ago, as Lars Tysklind said here, the Parliament made an announcement like the announcement that we are taking a position on here today. This means that the government should also present proposals on how licensed water activities can obtain permits in a modern and socio-economically efficient manner in accordance with the environmental requirements set out in the Environmental Code and EU law. It is also necessary to take into account the possible financial consequences of the authorisation and the measures, in particular for smaller activities. A sustainable financing system where the entire hydropower industry can contribute to cost sharing for the most urgent environmental measures needs to be developed on the basis of the proposals presented by the industry itself. Mr President, I would like to The purpose of the water management inquiry was to ensure that we obtain biodiversity in our running waters by testing water activities in accordance with the environmental code, not that we should financially benefit employment in the legal profession. The Alliance government sent out directed money to the county administrative boards to initiate the investigation of water activities. I guess that's where things started to go wrong. Water activities with permits in some form did not go on. Water activities that could not show a permit or a legacy ended up in the judicial system with high legal costs as a result. The system makes no distinction between small water operations and how to treat the largest power plants in Sweden. Today, however, many small hydropower owners perceive that they are being treated harder than the big ones. The idea in the country is that the system hits the smallest power plant owners who are often private individuals or small businesses in rural areas hardest. They lack special resources but have come to be the ones who are almost alone to bear the costs to society for greening and restoring watercourses. In many of these cases, the economic consequences risk leading to personal tragedies in which agricultural and forestry movements and housing can be used to fund processes and measures. To some extent, it depends on the county administrative authority under which water operations are located. What I do not want to happen is that money that the operator now has to spend on legal costs will far exceed what it would cost to achieve biodiversity with fish stairs and other measures. Then we've missed the purpose of what we're doing. Several legal proceedings are now under way in these cases. What we need to think about, I think, is whether these trials should not be allowed to stand up until we get an overall picture of how water activities should be treated so that there can be equal treatment that also benefits biodiversity and, not least, that the costs go to environmental measures and not to lawyers. It cannot be reasonable to have the same procedure for small water activities as for the very largest. It must be possible, as stated in the notice, to make a simplified permit application for the small ones, where it is clear what needs to be done to obtain a permit based on the environmental code. Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that water activities that fail to meet environmental requirements will disappear. But it should be on grounds that are clear to all parties. With this, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report, including the announcement and rejection of all motions.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-583	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Social Democrats whether they will continue to make these demands in other areas. If we make a chemicals law, will you demand that it should lead to jobs throughout the country? If we ban dangerous substances in textiles, is it important that it also leads to increased agricultural production or that it is cost-effective? That's my one question. Then I would like to take an example to make this very concrete. This is, of course, about the application of the Water Framework Directive. We need clean water throughout the country, but we have not achieved it. The situation is very serious. The authorities may, for example, propose that an agricultural activity should establish so-called protection zones on one or a few metres outside a field used for food production where grass is allowed to grow and where food is not produced. It may affect production with a few per mille. It probably does because it takes a few meters around the field. This means that it will have an impact on agriculture. How does Jan-Olof Larsson think you should make the assessment? If it is decided that it is time to tear down some dams in Skåne, because they have such an extensive impact on water quality, this does not lead to new jobs, especially in the whole country and in the interior of Norrland. How do you make the assessment? I think that the Social Democrats should be able to respond to this.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-587	Mr President, I would like to The notice states that water authorities should carry out an impact assessment of the impact of water activities on agriculture on job opportunities across the country, combined with the achievement of the targets. It does not say that more jobs will be created. It may be that you tear down a couple of ponds that do not fulfil any function and that cannot be fixed in a biologically good way. It can give more jobs if you develop it into sport fishing and so on. But what we think is important is that we have to make impact assessments of how it affects upwards, downwards, etcetera. I don't see it anywhere saying it's going to generate jobs across the country. The need to make assessments when introducing environmental requirements will cost individuals, but the way this issue has been addressed – not least water activities – people who have the least resources have been jumped. They can then be treated according to the environmental code, and this means that the individual has to bear the full cost. Should the county administrative board ask for reconsiderations, the state will have to pay, but that has been skipped in this situation to wait instead for the bill to come in the autumn. I and we Social Democrats think that we should wait for the bill so that we can treat everyone in the same way, even those who have the least resources to fight legally.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-590	Mr President, I would like to Had the application of the WFD in Sweden removed the distinction between small and large practitioners – as I understand Jan-Olof-Olof – why don't you write it in the announcement? You said in your speech, Jan-Olof, that there will be very complicated and long legal processes. I see that problem too, but why don't you write it in the announcement? Nevertheless, you write that water authorities should carry out impact assessments of the impact on agriculture and water activities, as well as the possibility of jobs throughout the country. If you make proposals to have a protection zone in a field, then you should also analyse if there is a job in the whole country of the protection zone. How does it affect agricultural production? I am afraid that we are creating reservations in environmental policy. You don't just say that what's important is clean water, end of story. You try to paste on a lot of other things. That is why I mentioned the examples that Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson did not comment on. The next chemicals law that we club through in this House, is it also going to create jobs throughout the country? Is there to be a balance between how much food can be affected more or less by that chemicals law? If we want to ban dangerous substances in textiles, should we have different reservations about that? For me, this feels like a whole new way of dealing with environmental policy. It is quite natural to strike a balance. The environmental code and other things already exist, but you take a step further. Now we're in the weird situation that I have full faith in the work of the government. The government is preparing the question. We don't need this announcement. I'm calling for it to be rejected.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-597	Mr President, I would like to In this case, there are a number of county boards that have dealt with similar issues in several different ways. That is one reason why we from the Social Democrats have reacted and sent in clear points about how we think the analysis should be done. Of course we should have clean water. It is also self-evident – and it would not really have to be written down – that we need to analyse the effects of the decisions we make here. You can't just have a pipe thinking, you have to see the whole picture. But the foundation is that we should have access to clean water throughout the country. We must protect and protect that. The issue of the treatment of small and large hydroelectric plants is included in the report. Today, this is particularly true for small power plants, because they have not received the same type of licence. It has once received money from the state to build power plants that have subsequently benefited in various ways. But now the state is putting the heels on the hill and controlling those who have to be checked according to the environmental code, because they have to pay the cost themselves. As a rule, these are small power plants. You don't go after the big ones in this case. We believe that it should be reasonable to find a different procedure for small hydroelectric plants. One could say clearly what measures need to be taken for approval, such as the construction of fish stairs or other, and that it will cost SEK 175 000 or what is now the case. Instead, the hydropower owner today spends hundreds of thousands of dollars on lawyers, but he does not know how it ends up. It is not reasonable to expose people to it, we think.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-601	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with a comment. Jan-Olof Larsson said we should have sensed to keep quiet. But on the Liberal side, we are not ashamed at all of the proposal we have for beach cleaning. We have put EUR 15 million in our draft budget for a permanent allocation. This compares with the 8 million by 2018 that the government has. Let's agree on that. As far as labour market policy measures are concerned, this is perhaps one such issue as beach cleaning. It wasn't a good method. I would like to put a small question of control on a point where I think the government's policy and the policy of the government parties are running a little bit. We discussed the civil committee's report No 13 14 days ago. There is an announcement that all parties except the red-greens have supported making a distinction between small-scale and large-scale hydropower in the permit process. We were very clear in the announcement that it was definitely not about us not testing according to the environmental code. It must be a basic idea today that everyone should have a modern permit according to the environmental code. It is a very unfortunate situation that a large number of the about 1 800 small hydroelectric plants and even some of the large ones are not licensed under modern legislation. So it is about the processes. And that is exactly what Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson is talking about today: that we must make a difference between large-scaleness and small-scaleness and that the process itself should not be allowed to crack the resources available to take concrete environmental measures. One might therefore wonder whether you have not really discussed yourself. Is today's statement valid, or is it still valid 14 days ago?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-604	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Liberals have set aside 15 million in the budget in opposition. But Lars Tysklind has been sitting here as long as I, since 2002, and in 2007 and nine years ahead Lars Tysklind did not put a single crown on the beach cleaning, because he did not get through it with the Moderates and the others. You could have been quiet today, but it wasn't the Moderates. That's what I said. We fully agree that the environmental code should be applied. Then I just think that Lars Tysklind should be extremely happy that we are now standing up for this. It has been 14 days, but it may well be time to say that we fully support this initiative. Small hydroelectric power should be able to spend money on measures rather than on lawyers. Today, the system is completely distorted. As a small entrepreneur, you do not know what it costs, but it is several hundred thousand crowns, and in the end you do not know if you get a permit. If you don't get a permit, you might spend half a million or one million on tearing it down. This is a fairly legal-uncertain way of dealing with small-scale hydropower, we believe from the Social Democrats. There are no big ones you've gone after. Please be glad we support your proposal, Lars Tysklind!
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-607	Mr President, I would like to Lars Tysklind is very happy about this! I would like to emphasise once again that this is not about us not setting relevant and clear environmental requirements and demanding the measures that can be taken. I'm sure Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson can agree with me again. It is about simplifying administration and the process itself. There are contacts with owners of small hydroelectric plants and they are prepared to take environmental measures. Hydropower has a strong local impact on biodiversity. There's no way to screw it up. It is perhaps precisely in small-scale hydropower that relatively small measures can win a great deal of environmental benefit. It is clear that we will optimize even in the large power plants, but it may be a little harder to go after the Lule River with its twelve power plants and get a working system. There are examples where it has worked very well. In the Fax River – somewhere in northern Jämtland, I think – power generation in four power plants has managed to create a free fishing route of 17 mil. It is clear that hydropower production can be combined with fish migration and biodiversity. Surely these are the starting points we must have as we move forward on this issue – hand in hand I was about to say.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-611	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that there should be compliance with the environmental code and that there should be clear requirements. As owner of small-scale hydropower or whatever it is, you should know that if you invest a certain amount of money to create good biodiversity and correct problems you then get your permission. Then you should also be able to make the assessment that it costs so much money that you would rather give up and demolish the plant. I am absolutely sure that many small hydroelectric plants will never be authorised, as they are unable to achieve biodiversity in a good way. Today, however, there are an enormous number of people who achieve it in a very cheap way rather than going the legal way. In the end, I think we're pretty much in agreement on how to move this forward. One problem has been how one has been treated in the various county boards. I trust that it will eventually be a water authority that can treat people in different places in Sweden according to the same standards. That would have been nice, because there are many who have suffered pain in various places in Sweden because of the treatment from our authorities, for which we are actually responsible.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-613	Mr President, I would like to I thank the members of the committee for a very committed debate on water conservation issues. I was last in last year's water management debate and can see that there is as much commitment to this issue this year as it was last year. That bodes well, because it needs to be done. Today, a new action programme for the marine environment was submitted by the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. It is sad, because it says that the objective of good marine environmental status by 2020 will not be achieved. It is also said that the main concerns are eutrophication, dangerous substances and fishing. The impact of tourism and other industries is also increasing. The main pressures are the extraction of species by fishing and the supply of nutrients and toxins. In fact, the latter have mainly land-based sources, and that is where a large part of the action work needs to be done. As is the case with many other issues, water management and water issues are not something that is limited, but what we do on land we will also see in the sea. I would therefore like to go back a little bit in time and start somewhere else, namely in Paris last autumn – or winter, it was almost. There was a historic climate agreement. One of the great things that was talked about before was how to keep the temperature increase in the world as low as possible. Few thought we'd get along under two degrees. Sweden was the driving force in the negotiations. Our Minister for Climate and Environment even had to lead some of the negotiations, and we achieved a result that was good, but not the best. Tomorrow, when Åsa Romson will sign the agreement in New York, it says that the increase in earth's average temperature should be kept well below two degrees and that efforts should be made to keep the increase to one and a half degrees. As I said, this is a good news. But it's also a very sad thing. This means that we are already living in a world where the average temperature has increased and will continue to rise. We accept the disastrous consequences of this. But what about water conservation and the sea? Water is water. When you talk about climate and carbon dioxide, it is about air, you may think often. When we have as much carbon dioxide in the air as we have now it buffers. It reacts with the sea and makes it sour. I think that many in my generation have been involved in calendering lakes in NO lessons due to acid rain, acid rain and how to conduct forestry. There were horror pictures of statues that began to crumble because of acid rain. If someone 20 years ago had told me that we would have so much human influence that we could drain an entire sea, I would have laughed, but that's it. How it has happened, because the sea is large. The average depth of the sea is almost four kilometres. Even if we were to flatten the earth with land and everything, we would still have an average depth of almost 2.6 kilometres. It's deep, you know. Yes, it's very deep. It's over a mile in the deepest place. If the highest mountain in the world, Mount Everest, were to be put in the deepest place, one could stand on top and still have two kilometers of water above his head. There's a lot of water. Nevertheless, with human activity we have managed to upset the balance of this vast body of water. What we do on land affects the sea. It's not enough that we get carbon dioxide as buffers so we get a sour sea. When we heat the earth, we also get a warmer sea, and hot water takes up more space than cold water. It lies in the physical properties of the water. In addition to having a warm climate where ice melts and we get an increase in the water level, the intrinsic properties of the water will also give us even higher water, because hot water takes up space than cold water. There will be major consequences for the whole earth, but above all for the low-lying countries where this is already felt. We have island nations like Fiji and the Maldives fighting for their survival. In Bangladesh, the cultivation limit has been moved to the sea for several kilometres, and salt water penetrates the farmland. As a result, people have to flee, because in densely populated countries there is no new ground to break. Climate refugees are already a fact. A sour sea is also an inhospitable sea. We talked about NO lessons before. I don't know if you remember when in chemistry classes you took an egg and put in vinegar overnight. When you came the next day, there was no eggshell left on the egg, because acidy things dissolve lime. It happens in the sea too. Very many of our animals in the sea have shells. It's not because they're not called shellfish. It's one thing to have a hole in your teeth. But being shrimped with holes in the shell doesn't work very well. We see major problems with larval development and such with the future acidification that we have in the sea. A researcher who did research on this and who spoke in DN last week said: We are probably not going to destroy all life in the sea. Some organisms will survive. But many species are likely to die out. It's a depressing future you can paint. That is precisely why it is so important and in a way pleasing to see that our government has now taken on a responsibility in these matters and made progress. We have a government that has declared that Sweden will become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It's big. It affects not only where we live now, but also the oceans and waters as such. When we change the climate, the other parts of the water will change as well. Several parts of Sweden will become drier. This means other obstacles to fish migration routes than the power plants we have been talking about in the past. Rivers and rivers may become much drier. It will change groundwater, and it will change drinking water supplies. Other parts will get wetter. The forecasts look like we are going to have so much rain on the Baltic Sea region that we are going to lower the salinity. So it is too sweet for the species that live there now, but too salt for freshwater species to come out there. This means that the world's most polluted seas, which are already species-poor, will become even more species-poor. All this means missing ecosystem services. There are also the other things I have mentioned here: environmental pollution, littering, overfishing, chemicals and pharmaceutical residues. Since the 20th century, the world's fish stocks in the sea have fallen by 90 percent. If this continues, we will have more plastic in the sea than fish in 2050. The average temperature has already increased by one degree and the CO2 concentration has increased tenfold. The current changes are undoubtedly causing huge problems for our aquatic organisms and therefore also for our survival. It is 70 percent of the earth's surface that is made up of water, and about 1 percent of it is fresh water. But the waters find no bounds. That is why it is so important that we work with these issues internationally and in cooperation. I know that the reservation 1 proposed by many alliance representatives here is precisely about international and regional work. There is Sweden and what we do now is so leading. We can look at the work on the climate summit. We have a new strategy for the Arctic and how to deal with it. We have three ministers who have gone out and talked about it. In order to protect the nature of the Arctic, efforts are being made to strengthen climate action, to provide more legal protection for sensitive nature and to reduce the risks of oil drilling and overfishing. That's taking responsibility. The same applies to Sweden's work on the UN's sustainability goals, which were clubbed last autumn. There are 17 new sustainable development targets to be met by 2030. That is everything from eradicating poverty to education, sustainable energy and others. According to the OECD, Sweden has the best conditions for all countries to implement the agenda. Then we should not just sit down and do it ourselves, but where we can help, we should also help lead the work. There we have said that we take responsibility for objective 14 which is about a sustainable sea. This is a priority Swedish issue. Sweden, together with the island nation Fiji, will take responsibility for a global partnership for this. You know, there is no international body in charge of maritime affairs. UN-Water is about fresh water. Sweden saw a gap here, and we have the facilities to do this. That's where we've been pushing. We have a common fisheries policy in the EU where the Green Party has been one of those who have been very proactive. It is now in place, and the government is watching and trying to ensure that it is complied with. It brings everything that we do at home. Much has already been mentioned here today. We also have assignments under way on non-toxic and resource-efficient cycles and how microplastics should be removed and removed from the environment. We have strengthened environmental monitoring. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has been tasked with developing new proposals for environmental measures under the rural development programme, in particular in order to bring about teeming wetlands. I believe that, together with the government proposal and our policy, we in the committee can change the now so bleak world.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-639	Mr President, I would like to What I like about an environmental party is that you put the environment first, and nothing else. You don't say, first jobs, and then the environment comes. It is not said: first agriculture and food production, and then the environment comes. It's the environment you put first. I think Emma Nohrén's speech was in exactly that spirit. That is why I was disappointed both by the Green Party and by the Social Democrats with regard to the report. You might think it's a little thing. It is about the implementation of action programmes for the WFD, and S and MP have agreed to proposals from the bourgeois parties together with the Swedish Democrats to take into account also cost-effectiveness, agricultural production and jobs throughout the country. Could it be that serious? I think it is a bit serious, because the Water Directive is about clean water. It is not about the fact that we can only get clean water if we automatically also create jobs throughout the country. It is not a question of getting clean water if it leads to increased food production in agriculture. With the announcement you make, you create a lot of reservations about the implementation of the Water Directive. I find that worrying. I mentioned some concrete examples earlier. There can be demands for protection zones on a arable land, and it may be a little less food production. If this is brought to a head, it may not be possible to make these demands. Or should you be able to tear down the dams down in Skåne when we know that it does not automatically create jobs in the interior of Norrland? I think that Emma Nohrén should respond to this.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-643	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! I do not think there is any doubt whatsoever that we are putting environmental issues first. We see that physical effects on watercourses, such as built ponds, have major negative effects on the aquatic environment. This is the main reason why good ecological status and good ecological potential are not being met today in the EU Water Directive. This is something that should have been implemented already in 2000. There have been several programming periods, and Sweden has received backing. But to say, like Jens Holm, that we are opposed to it being carried out in order to read the announcement as he does is completely wrong. You said yourself that it's a matter of pulling things to their head. Yes, I think so. The Communication and the proposal state that priority should be given to the most cost-effective measures to achieve the objectives of the WFD. So it does not say that they should be given priority. It's not superior. But if you pull it to its head, like Jens Holm, we can do the opposite. If we turn our words around, the Left Party will be against jobs throughout the country, against agriculture and against the other things. I do not think that this gives a fair picture of what we want, and I think that Jens Holm places too much emphasis on semantics.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-646	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it can be said that the same discussion took place a few weeks ago in the Committee on Civil Liberties, which Lars Tysklind from the Liberals raised. At that time, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats made a completely different assessment. They had a reservation, and they did not agree to this because the implementation of the WFD is so important. That's what you could have done here, too. I know I might pull it a little bit to its head. On the other hand, I think that if you are an environmentalist in this respect, you should ask yourself the question: Will it be easier or more difficult to implement the Water Directive in Sweden if you say at the same time that you should also take into account whether it creates jobs throughout the country, take into account agriculture and take into account whether it is cost-effective or not? We are not doing this in any other environmental legislation, Emma Nohrén. We do not set such specific requirements, even if you always make a balance for implementation. But I think that's another thing. Could you please answer the question: Do you think it will be easier and better for the environment when implementing the WFD with the announcement that you have now made?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-649	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the discussion, Jens Holm! I believe that there will be conflicts of interest in this matter regardless of how it is done. We have the environmental code and the EU framework directive first, and they must, of course, be complied with. As you yourself mentioned, we have the Weser ruling, which says that you cannot go down in environmental criteria. It'll always get better. We don't have as good environmental quality status on water as we probably naively thought we had in Sweden. When you started going through this, you could see that we didn't. We see a lot of obstacles, but we have to pick them off in the right order. We have had an action programme for referral. 184 referrals were received, and this is now being prepared within the Government Office. I think we can be sure that what comes out of there is not done to make things more difficult or to reduce environmental requirements. It's about us implementing and getting as much environmental benefit as possible and this in a simple way. We must achieve good environmental status in the water, and I am absolutely sure that both that and the future proposal on water activities will contribute to this.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-653	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that, of course, we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of alliance reservation No 4 and moderate reservation No 6. Mr President, I would like to Swedish agriculture depends on a functioning food industry to work. But at the same time, the opposite is true. The Swedish food industry is completely dependent on Swedish agriculture working and is competitive. It is connected; the whole chain is important. That is why it is not possible to talk about food policy without also addressing the issue of the conditions for agriculture. Today, many farmers – at present particularly the dairy farmers – are forced to phase out activities that have been run for a long time due to the tough economic situation. At the same time, we see how food production, most recently Findus, is moved or discontinued as a result of the fact that the opportunities to operate here in Sweden are deemed to be worse than elsewhere. This happens despite our good natural conditions here in Sweden. Of course, this should not be the case, but for a long time politics has unfortunately been more part of the problem than part of the solution. Political decisions have been allowed too much to create or aggravate the problems through Swedish special rules, high taxes or a large administrative burden. All in all, this entails significant additional costs for Swedish farmers and food companies. It is time to reverse that trend. We must work to ensure that the conditions for agriculture are more similar in the rest of the EU. We therefore want to see regulatory simplification, reduced bureaucracy, improved coordination between different authorities and reduced administrative costs. A concrete and highly topical example concerns plant protection products. It is quite unreasonable that the Swedish authorities repeatedly make completely different, much tougher, interpretations of EU rules than are done in our neighbouring countries. We, the Moderates, have recently put forward five concrete proposals for action to solve the problems, and we have addressed these as demands to the government. I still hope that the government is prepared to act and follow our proposals, although unfortunately the Minister for Rural Development has not so far wanted to give such a message, in any case. Mr President, I would like to Swedish agricultural and food production is generally very environmentally friendly. It would therefore be better for the environment if a larger proportion of the meat, dairy products and crops consumed in the world came from Swedish farms. We must, of course, stand up for good animal welfare and reasonable environmental rules, but the starting point must be that the requirements are, as far as possible, equivalent throughout the European Union. Swedish farmers cannot, in a common market, alone bear the costs and responsibility for going ahead. The result is that Swedish agriculture risks being knocked out, which only leads us to import the same products from countries with lower requirements. We see examples of how this is happening. It's serious now. In the delayed food strategy, the government must clearly and concretely address the challenges facing both agriculture and food production. There are challenges in the long term but also concrete problems in the short term that need to be addressed. Strong objectives, clear priorities and an honest willingness to ease the yoke of taxes, regulations and special requirements that affect green industries are needed. The final report of the Competitiveness Investigation of the Alliance Government provides a very good basis for this work. Unfortunately, the government has so far pursued a policy in the opposite direction. Once a response from the R Egeringskansliet comes, it is usually about new or increased taxes, more bans and more regulations. The Minister for Rural Development was here last week when we had an interpellation debate. It was about the competitiveness of agriculture, but the Minister for Rural Development talked about additional health and safety requirements and strengthened labour law. To me, it sounds rather like even higher costs and reduced competitiveness, when we should be striving for the opposite. Stefan Löfven stated in the election movement that all politics should be tested against whether it leads to more jobs. It was well-lawed, but politics can never create those jobs. Jobs are created if the conditions are favourable, to which policies can contribute. This means that taxes need to be lower, not higher. The rules need to be simplified, and the interpretation of the rules by the authorities needs to be made more effective. The conditions for competition for operations in Sweden need to be more equivalent to those in countries with which we compete. Mr President, I would like to We also want to see a clear focus on increased exports. One of the concrete proposals we have in this area is the creation of a web-based export portal aimed at promoting Swedish food and making it easier for importers in other countries to choose Swedish. The whole food chain can become a growth sector. But then – in addition to regulatory simplifications, neutral competitive conditions and reduced costs, as I have already mentioned – forward-looking efforts are also required. Unfortunately, we can see that resources for research and development in this area are too limited and low in relation to other sectors. Priority should therefore be given to issues relating to agriculture and food production, but also to related areas such as manufacturing processes. This should be done in the forthcoming research bill, but it is also important to highlight it in the food strategy. Mr President, I would like to An important element for a market to function properly is that consumers should be reasonably well informed in order to make wise choices – choices where not only price but also other parameters can be taken into account. We know that consumers in Sweden increasingly demand Swedish food products. Markings such as Swedish birds and Swedish meat have been good examples and have also contributed to the increase in consumption of Swedish birds and meat after several years of decline. Yesterday the first products were launched with the new From Sweden label, a clear blue yellow label that makes it easier to find food, raw materials and plants of Swedish origin in stores. The initiative for labelling comes from the Swedish food companies, Swedish daily goods trade and LRF. This is a good example of the industry and the market being able to solve this well – much better than legislation, which risks becoming square and bad, would do. It is gratifying that the Minister for Rural Development is now saying that he does not want to legislate on this, but rather welcomes and welcomes the new voluntary industry label. This is in stark contrast to all the red-green colleagues who in this House have repeatedly spoken out in favour of legislation. Food labelling is important, but just as important is the existence of effective monitoring systems to avoid different types of food fraud and fraud. It is totally unacceptable for rogue operators, for example, to try to smudge quality labels and sell falsely labelled products. It is about fraudsters who try to make an extra profit by fooling consumers. We have long been demanding tougher penalties for this type of crime and are pleased that the government now says it is prepared to meet us. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates believe in Swedish agriculture and in Swedish food production. If politics provides the right conditions instead of putting sticks in place, these industries can grow in the future, and we can also enjoy the fruits of the Swedish soil in the future.
i-AMeAyNjZZuXuGdSPxXgePA	Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats have a number of reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 1. Food control functions differently across the country, and food control resources are quite limited. Today, municipalities are responsible for food control, but it is not uncommon for municipalities to fail their mission. There are sometimes charges for checks that are never carried out or completed as planned. In addition to the municipalities, responsibility lies with the county administrative boards and the state through the Finnish Food Administration. No comparable countries have such complex systems as Sweden. Swedish Consumers and Food Companies said in an article in Svenska Dagbladet just that – that the control system is more complicated than in any other country. Food must be safe, and the state should therefore take greater responsibility for effective and effective food control throughout Sweden. The county administrative boards are already checking that municipal control complies with the legislation, but by transferring responsibility entirely from municipalities to the state, food and animal welfare controls would be treated equally throughout the country. In Denmark, food control was successfully nationalised about 12 years ago. I think it is time that Sweden also made this more effective through more nationalised control. Mr. Old President! Unfortunately, we see that Sweden's self-sufficiency in food has fallen dramatically, a development that must not continue. Therefore, a Swedish food strategy is more important than ever, a strategy where competitiveness is recognised by the fact that many of the proposals of the Competitiveness Survey become a reality, which aims to increase food exports and which contains reduced regulatory constraints with good competitive conditions for companies. Increasing and ultimately doubling the value of Swedish exports of agricultural goods and food would have a major impact on the Swedish economy and employment. The Swedish production trend must be reversed; we are all clear about that. Two product categories where the increase in value was high are dairy products and eggs as well as meat and meat products. Swedish production has thus found it difficult to stand up to competition since customs protection disappeared at EU entry, according to the Swedish Board of Agriculture's report. Unfortunately, we have seen Swedish production lose market share after EU entry. Consumption has increased and is increasingly being met with imported products, which have a lower cost than Swedish meat. Three out of four customers state that they prefer Swedish food. The Swedish label that has now been launched for grocery stores to make it easier for consumers to find Swedish food in grocery stores is a positive approach and is well in line with what customers want. The level of awareness and willingness to buy Swedish and locally produced food is steadily increasing, and an effort should be made to get a higher share of locally produced and/ or organic food in public procurement. In order to strengthen the profitability of dairy farmers so that they are better paid for the raw material and better opportunities to improve the value of the products, it is important to make the origin labelling of Swedish dairy products and better communication of Swedish added value out to consumers. Foreign animal husbandry often differs from Sweden in terms of, for example, the view of antibiotics, hormones, animal transport, animal husbandry and slaughter methods. It is therefore important to increase consumers' ability to make active choices when buying food. Sweden has the world's most ambitious animal welfare. This is something that the Swedish democrats are proud of and want to defend. In particular, in order for our animals – and food production to remain competitive – it is important to maintain animal welfare. All food purchased through public procurement must be subject to requirements that the raw materials are produced in accordance with Swedish environmental and animal welfare legislation. Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats stress that all animal products should be labelled with origin at every stage of the production chain. This shall apply to meat products and composite products as well as to food in restaurants. Dairy products which are currently completely outside the labelling requirements, we want to include in compulsory labelling systems. Swedish farmers are currently disadvantaged in competition with other countries, not because the quality of the food we produce is too low, but because it is too high. Hand in hand with this, the level of self-sufficiency in basic food is falling more than in any other country. The production of pig and beef has fallen by 50%, and there are no emergency stocks anymore. Households' food stocks may last an average of one week, stores' stocks will last a few days and central storage will last a few more days. This risks leading to a dangerous situation for Sweden in the event of a serious political or military crisis or something else in our neighbourhood. The problem for our Swedish farmers is that animal welfare and quality costs money. The EU allows other countries to have poorer animal welfare and lower quality requirements in the production of food than we have in Sweden. On the other hand, the EU does not allow us in Sweden to protect our production, which has higher requirements. Through a strengthened Swedish food production and by rewarding the Swedish farmers in their work for quality, animal welfare and animal welfare, we will be able to approach competition on equal terms.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-698	Mr. Old President! I thought in this debate about one thing, one thing that I think is more important than others at the moment, about the fact that Swedish food production is decreasing and that the profitability of those who are primary producers in our country is more or less non-existent. Then we are talking about reservation 2, to which I also call for approval, that is, the promise that we will have a food strategy in our country. It is a strategy that I affirm that the government is working forward. From what I understand, it aims to ensure that we increase the production of sustainably produced food in our country and that we have the conditions to maintain and develop an industry that processes the food produced in Sweden, as well as that we ordinary consumers have access to sustainably produced food. With the current government choosing to close the alliance government's vision of Sweden as the new food country, we have lost an incredible amount of time, time that could have been used to develop it. I believe that we in this House agree that we should produce more food in our country, refine more food in our country and thus create the important jobs, not least in the Swedish countryside. I have called in several debates for an answer to why they chose to phase out an initiative, a vision, which could have been a platform for what the current government wants to develop, namely a food strategy. I have not yet received an answer as to why this was done and why all the money was taken away to help develop activities in different parts of our country. I expect, Mr President-in-Office, during this debate to have an answer as to why something has been decided to be phased out, in order to simply lose time for the development that we all want to see.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-703	Mr. Old President! In the debate on this report, I will address three key issues. It is the forthcoming food strategy, food control and food waste. I am in favour of reservation 4 on the food strategy with a focus on competition and exports. It is a reservation that the Liberals have together with the other alliance parties. We are, of course, also behind Liberals' reservation 10, on food control, and reservation 11 on food waste, where we have reserved ourselves together with the Center Party. Swedish food production has great potential with the right conditions to provide increased employment and growth and contribute to long-term sustainable development in rural areas. This also leads to a production of high-quality food. It can also be linked to climate change. We can be pleased that we have achieved some results on the climate issue both internationally and nationally. In any case, however, there will be changes that we must adapt to. Globally – I am convinced – Swedish arable land will become increasingly valuable. If the food strategy gets the right content, it will be able to support a positive development of Swedish food production. When we look at the characteristics of this food production, we see that there are links to previous discussions that we have had today. It is about good animal husbandry, low antibiotic use and sustainable cultivation methods. This is a lot about competition issues. On the Liberal side, I would like to emphasise that there is great added value in Swedish products. We must come to a situation where we are prepared to pay for these added value. There is a clear trend in society today. Not only in Sweden, but also on the export side, there is a demand for high-quality food. It is enough to look at the demand for clear labelling that exists in Sweden. In recent days there have been some discussions about this with meat from Sweden. The industry will then guarantee certain things, and I believe that the consumer is very keen on this. It is about the animal being born in Sweden, raised in Sweden and slaughtered in Sweden, so that the whole process lies in Sweden. There I think the industry is making a very good effort, which should reasonably have been done in the past. The overall aim of the food strategy is, of course, to strengthen competitiveness from different points of view. This is not least about general enterprise policy. But we should still retain the consumer perspective and demand perspective when it comes to Swedish added value. In the long run, it is possible to increase Swedish exports of food. It can be noted that Swedish food exports are increasing. That's what the statistics show. By 2015, it had grown to nearly 74 billion. Then you can always pick up that number and ask what is Swedish food, what is processed food and so on, but it has nevertheless increased. Another aspect of exports that is not always considered is tourism exports. Tourism is one of the fastest growing industries in the world. Tourism's export value – here, of course, we see no direct link to food – was 96.5 billion in 2014. Food country Sweden comes into many points of view, not least here. It is about highlighting unique Swedish products. The food becomes a visitor's guide in itself. It is another area where Matlandet Sweden was involved and helped to highlight the Swedish added value, which is so important. Now we have a message that the food strategy will come in June. It's a day note we have. It's a little over two months till then. Then for the time being, let's hope that's the case. We are not really informed about exactly what it should contain, but it will probably come true in some way. Mr. Old President! I was into climate change and climate just now. Food production accounts for a large part of climate emissions. And when we have discussed the issue of reducing Swedish emissions, we have noted that it is most difficult to completely eliminate the emissions that come from agriculture. Neither will we ever be able to, as long as we use the earth. But then it is most urgent that we focus on really taking advantage of the food that we have actually produced. The discharge has already taken place there. If you let it go to food waste, it's kind of just losers in the context. Then the climate pressure that this particular production has brought has not led to anything positive at all. It is interesting to note that food waste is about 30% on a global scale. It's about the same in the whole world, but for completely different reasons. In Sweden and comparable countries, food is largely thrown away at the consumer level, i.e. we are already throwing away bought and paid food. In other parts of the world, food disappears at the warehouse and distribution level. Then it may be that you do not have suitable premises, so that food rots. It could be pests, like rats and so on. But it is still about 30 percent. The reason we have in Sweden and in comparable countries, that we completely sonicely throw away the food, feels directly immoral in this context. The statistics show that we throw away about 50 kilos of food per inhabitant. I don't really know how to get those numbers. However, it is shown that a two - child family loses $1,000 a year by throwing food away unnecessarily. This is an issue that is now on the agenda also at European level. It discusses, among other things, the concept of ‘best-before-date'. What does it mean for us modern people? It somehow means that food becomes bad from one day to another, and a lot of food is thrown away unnecessarily. The question of food waste is extremely important to us from the Liberals. It is important that we set targets for this at national level and that we initiate projects to reduce food waste. It may not be so much about advanced projects, but it is about informing and making people a little more secure in making their own choices.
i-UaxBUFQBJVTd3nSNLsKrEy	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to endorse Amendment No 3 and Amendment No 4 by the Alliance. Sweden is amazing. It's an old slogan I remember. Of course Sweden is fantastic to conduct food production in. It's a good climate. It is good access to water and lots of good farmers and fishermen. I hope that we in this House can make it clear that viable food production is extremely important. Farming in Sweden should pay off. Fishing in Sweden should pay off. It will pay to process food in Sweden. Unfortunately, this is no longer the reality of our country. We have recently heard that Findus will close down its production in Bjuv. This affects not only the 450 employees, but also a large number of pea growers who are now left without marketing. We see it clearly in milk production. Tomorrow, Friday, when the working week is over, five more dairy farmers have finished. So it continues week in and week out. We're in the middle of the worst milk crisis in manna memory. The price of milk is down to bottom levels. We can't just shrug our shoulders and say, "So boring, so boring." And then we'll do something completely different. What is happening right now will have major consequences, serious consequences, for our country. Thousands of jobs will disappear. As a result, rural areas are further eroded. Our country will become even more vulnerable if there is a crisis. By the way, what would it look like in Sweden if there were a crisis, if the possibility of bringing food into our country from outside were to cease or be made more difficult? How are we gonna get food on our table? Do we know that? Do we have any idea? The answer is no. Today, the level of self-sufficiency is below 50%. This is far too little. Here we must look at, for example, Finland, which has chosen a different policy. They are, like us, members of the European Union. Perhaps this difference is due to the fact that in Finland, times of unrest have not been so awfully long ago and therefore have a completely different vigilance. They have a self-sufficiency of between 80 and 85 percent. The difference in relation to Sweden is incredible. Thankfully, we in our country have had peace for over 200 years. But our well-ordered society is not self-evident, and we cannot count on it to always roll on as it always has. Sometimes it feels like a lot of people even here are shrugging their shoulders and saying: It will probably be all right. It doesn't. We in this House bear a responsibility. Mr. Old President! There is a double standard in Swedish society. While we have the hardest animal welfare laws in the world, many of the country's municipalities and county councils buy food from all kinds of parts of our world, food that is produced in a way that would be completely illegal in Sweden. Here, Sweden's municipalities and county councils must become more serious about buying as far as possible food that can be produced in Sweden, food produced with Swedish animal welfare laws. There are good examples of municipalities that have done so, which have thought about. This is for example Ydre, Vadstena and my municipality of residence Ödeshög in Östergötland. These municipalities buy locally produced food as far as possible. The results are very good.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-727	Mr. Old President! Today we are dealing with the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment MJU15, Food Policy. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Yesterday it was the premiere of the new Swedish label From Sweden. First out with the new blue yellow symbol is the milk. The voluntary origin label is launched to respond to consumers' increased demand for raw materials and food produced in Sweden. About 800 products are in the process of being labelled, and the number of articles will gradually be built on. The label can be applied to all types of Swedish-produced foods that meet the criteria. Meat and meat is labelled with Meat from Sweden. This is an important step in strengthening Swedish food production. Mr. Old President! The government will present the national food strategy in the spring. The food strategy takes a holistic approach to many of the challenges we face, and the aim is to increase competitiveness throughout the food chain, thereby helping to boost growth in rural areas. The competitiveness investigation is part of the basis for the food strategy. The aim of the food strategy is to increase employment, production, exports, innovation and the profitability of food production, while achieving national environmental objectives. It is extremely important that we have domestic food production. Food is not something we can choose from. Today we have a level of self-sufficiency below 50%. Increased food production leads to increased security of supply. The Government's goal is to increase Swedish food production and create jobs and growth throughout the country. Sweden's exports of food are important for increasing food production and creating new jobs. We are well placed to increase our food production. We have a good supply of water and 600 000 hectares of arable land that are not in use. We also have knowledge of how production should be conducted in a sustainable way, both for humans and for animals and nature. We are the best in the world on animal health, and we use the least antibiotics in the EU. This together with our other Swedish added value such as our food safety, salmonella freedom, less climate impact and more can be used in marketing where Sweden can become the sustainable food country. We will continue to exploit and develop the Swedish added value, but we must also highlight it in a much better way. Within the framework of the export strategy, the government will work with certain sectors where there is deemed to be untapped potential for increased exports and internationalisation. The government develops specific national strategies and measures for the food sector, for example. These may include proposals aimed at increasing exports and internationalisation of Swedish companies. Mr. Old President! Primary production and food processing are regionally and locally an important part of the economy, industrial development and employment, not least in rural areas. The food chain includes many actors, from primary production to trade and food tourism. Food chain companies help create jobs and economic growth throughout the country. Service companies linked to primary production and food processing are also important for employment. The food industry is one of the largest industries in the country, in terms of the number of employed, and offers both skilled jobs and entry-level jobs, which is important for young and foreign-born. The same applies to the restaurant and visitor industry, which employs a large proportion of young people and foreign-born and is an employment-intensive sector that continues to grow. In order to have confidence in our food, it is important that we have good food control. The aim of Swedish food control is to ensure that consumers receive safe food, that they are not deceived by what the food contains and that the information about the food is easy to understand. The functioning of food control is important for consumer confidence in the food industry. The effectiveness, efficiency and equivalence of controls are also important for food producers' confidence in control. Mr. Old President! A third of all food produced in the world is thrown away. In Sweden we throw out about 28 kilos of food per person every year and pour 26 kilos into the sink. This places an unnecessary burden on our environment. Sweden is committed to meeting the global sustainability goals of halving food waste by 2030. A three-year food women's mission such as the Finnish Food Authority, the National Agricultural Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was completed at the turn of the year. The mission has contributed to the attention paid to the food waste problem. The final report focuses on five areas where action needs to be taken to achieve the target of halved food waste. These are: communicating the food waste target to motivate increased prevention, communication to consumers in collaboration with actors to change behaviour, increased collaboration in the industry, providing practical tools for various target groups' waste management, developing knowledge base. Today, there is a growing interest in creating more sustainable solutions, but to succeed, customers need to change their behaviour both in the shop and at home in the kitchen. To achieve this, extensive efforts are needed to communicate and inform consumers, as well as a range of other measures to stimulate more efficient food management. So we have many challenges with regard to our food and the food industry, but with a food strategy in place we have a long-term sustainable food chain.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-744	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Marianne Pettersson, for your speech. These debates may well run the risk of going a little bit idle, as we are dealing with a bunch of motions. But it is also in anticipation of sharper proposals in the form of a bill with the food strategy that we hope will come this summer. Nevertheless, there were a few things in what Mrs Pettersson mentioned that I would like to raise, as well as some further question. She mentions the Swedish mark, which I too mentioned in my speech. That is a good label, we seem to agree on. It is a good thing that this label comes out, and I am pleased that it is an industry label. It shows that the industry and the market can do well to solve this in a way that I believe is beneficial to consumers. The Minister for Rural Development was also clear here yesterday when he said that he is in favour of this, that he thinks it is a good thing and that there is therefore no need for legislation in this area. In this connection, I would like to ask Marianne Pettersson whether she shares that assessment. Do you, in this Parliament, share Social Democrats' opinion that no legislation is needed anymore? You have therefore changed your mind, because in the past you have been concerned with the need to legislate on this. That's my first question. The second issue concerns the objectives of the food strategy, where Marianne Pettersson gives some examples. The Minister for Rural Development has also mentioned that there will be targets for organic production and consumption in the food strategy. I'm a little bit curious about that. This drives the market quite well itself. There is a great demand for ecologically, and there is really no need for that kind of political pointers, one might say. The risk with this is that it may mean that foreign organic products compete out of Swedish conventional products that may actually be environmentally better than the foreign organic ones in some cases. How does Marianne Pettersson view this?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-752	Mr. Old President! I shall begin with the question of legislation. We are in full agreement with the Minister for Rural Development, and the Chairman of the LRF has been out saying the same thing. We see that the industry is doing well itself, and as long as it is, there is no reason to have any legislation. Here we see an excellent example of the threat of legislation bringing the industry together and cooperating. The goal of organic food is about the goal of organic production in Sweden. I can see no obstacle to having a goal for it. It's always good to set goals.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-754	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Marianne Pettersson, for your answer! I am pleased that we seem to agree that there is no need for legislation. When it comes to the concept of organic, it is about both production and consumption. That is what the Minister for Rural Development has said in any case. I do not agree with Marianne Pettersson that it is always good to set a goal. There must be a thought behind and meaning in setting a goal. It is also necessary to consider the consequences. I'm afraid you haven't. There is a picture that the organic is what should always be best for the environment. I don't share that assessment. I think you often need to consider other aspects as well and see where the environmental benefits are greatest and how much can be taken out of a piece of land. I indicated in my question that setting a target for organic production and an objective for organic consumption could affect consumption behaviour. If Swedish municipalities require organic products to be used in procurement, and there are not enough organic products, they will have to buy them from elsewhere. Organic products from other countries are not always better than Swedish-grown conventional products. Then there will be a conflict in that the public sector does not buy Swedish products and also does not buy those that are best for the environment. It is wrong to focus on organic production and consumption. Organic can be good in some cases. Consumers are well aware of this, and we see an increase in demand. Then a politically set goal is completely unnecessary. The important thing is to have a target for increased production and exports. I think the government should focus on that. That is why I am concerned about the news that the Rural Minister has given.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-759	Mr. Old President! I don't think I mentioned anything about consumption. Just as Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler says, it solves itself. We see increased demand. There are, however, great opportunities to increase production in Sweden. Demand is mainly in Swedish food. There is a large increase in demand for Swedish food. I see no problem in setting the goal that most of the production of organic food should take place in Sweden.
i-F41SfLCyB2QNY4tqV1nCbr	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Marianne Pettersson, for your speech! I would first like to say that I am pleased that Marianne Pettersson raised the issue of self-sufficiency in her speech. Even you mean it's way too low. It is positive that you raised the issue and that the government is looking at it. That's a good thing. Marianne Pettersson also points out that food production should increase. Will we see measurable targets instead of just having the goal of increasing them? It may be that if production increases by 0.001 the target has been reached. Will there be measurable targets in the future?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-763	Mr. Old President! Whether it becomes measurable goals or not, I find it difficult to tell. I don't have a crystal ball that can show me exactly what the bill will look like. That is why, unfortunately, I cannot answer the question of what the objectives will be.
i-XbwBkJ3PfXF3vPrCvBxGWs	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Marianne Pettersson, for your answer! I would just like to emphasise that farmers and others who think that the issues of food production are interesting and important and listen to the debate want to know whether they are words or reality. That's why it's so incredibly important that we get answers in the future. Marianne Pettersson may not be able to say much more, but a contribution is important. Marianne Pettersson also points out that it is important to highlight the added value. We all think that added value is important here. But how are we going to do that? How are we going to raise the added value so that farmers and those who work with food production can see that there is not just talk?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-766	Mr. Old President! One way is the label that was launched yesterday. Swedish food is labelled. Consumers are well aware of the situation, that it is a matter of high quality and low environmental impact – at least according to the studies carried out by the Swedish Food Administration. It is important that we stick to our added value. Otherwise, there is no reason for me to pay 199 SEK kilos for Swedish pork fillet when I can buy another pork fillet for 79 SEK kilos. If we are to continue to get paid for our added value, we must ensure that we stick to it. It can also be a selling point when we increase our exports. We can describe our added value with little climate impact, good animal welfare and so on.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-769	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Today's debate has been much about the forthcoming food strategy. Of course, I and the Green Party are also looking forward to the strategy being put in place. We want a strategy to increase profitability and sustainability in all areas of food production. A strategy for consumption in Sweden will be more environmentally and climate-friendly and more healthy. For the Green Party, it is important that the strategy has a strong consumer focus. Swedish consumers should feel confident that the food we produce in Sweden is good for people, animals and the environment. It should be easy to see where the milk comes from and what the jam contains. The formulation of the food strategy in line with national environmental objectives is a prerequisite for the long-term sustainability of the strategy, fisheries and agriculture. This may sound obvious, but it is important to stress. The environmental objectives A rich agricultural landscape, A rich animal and plant life, Limited climate impact, Sea in balance and living coast and archipelago, Living lakes and streams, Non-toxic environment and Good quality groundwater are related to what we eat and drink. It is therefore important to change tracks from the use of fertilizers, toxic chemicals and ultimately GMOs to smarter, more sustainable farming methods with reduced use of chemical pesticides and the use of less toxic substances. Mr. Old President! Good instruments are important for us to have sustainable agricultural production and sustainable consumption of food. The Green Party believes that public procurement is a key to stimulating Swedish, organic, locally grown, locally fished and a larger proportion of vegetarian both in public kitchens and ultimately in households. It is very gratifying that our government has already reintroduced a procurement authority and procurement rules that make it easier for municipalities and county councils to buy these things up. In order to achieve the Government's ambition with increased organic production and consumption, goals are important. It has already been discussed in this House. Between 1994 and 2010, we had targets both for how much of the agricultural land would be grown organically and for how much of the public consumption would be organic. The target for 2010 was that 20 per cent of the country's agricultural land should be organically grown and 25 per cent of public consumption should be ecol ogic. The 25% target has been very important for the work of municipalities and county councils. We in the Miljö party in Kil had a great use of that goal as leverage when we pushed through more organic and locally grown food in the municipality schools and preschools. But despite the fact that it became more eco-friendly in many municipalities and county councils, the 2010 targets were not achieved, and instead of setting new targets and taking new steps, the alliance government decided that there would be no targets. But the 25% target I think remains, and many municipalities and county councils continue to work. Last week, the Caliber radio programme was about organic and Swedish food. The editorial staff had sent out a questionnaire which was answered by 198 municipalities and 17 county councils and regions. It turned out that eight out of ten have goals for how much of the food should be organic. Malmö is a municipality at the forefront. The municipality aims to ensure that all food served in the City of Malmö will be organic by 2020. A target of more than 50% has already been reached today. Gothenburg already buys more ecologically than the 40% target. The county council in Värmland, my own county, also reached its goal prematurely. In 2012, politicians decided that in 2016 at least 30 per cent of the food would be organic. This would also be done with the unchanged budget. That goal was already reached last year. But these are just some good examples. In other parts of the country it stands still. For more ecologically, the Green Party believes that new targets are needed, both for consumption and for the proportion of organically grown land. We have previously pursued a target of at least 50% organically in public procurement by 2020 and at least 30% of arable land by 2020. This latter objective is important not least given that today we are seeing a large increase in households' organic consumption in Sweden. It is not met by an increase in production in Sweden but by an increase in imports of organic food. There is now a great responsibility for our government to ensure that a larger part of Swedish agriculture is changed so that this demand leads to jobs in Sweden. Mr. Old President! It is often said that we in Sweden have competitive disadvantages, for example that we have higher costs for work and buildings and poorer cultivation conditions. But it is also important that we highlight our competitive advantages. Sweden's main competitive advantage is our Swedish added value: our relatively high environmental and animal welfare requirements, our low antibiotic use and our high food safety. These are values that must be protected and strengthened. It is by quality, not quantity, that we can today compete on a world market and also by processing our raw materials to a greater extent ourselves. For example, we can start making more Swedish cheese out of the milk instead of exporting milk powder. But Sweden also has a great potential to increase food production and take greater responsibility for both our own and global food supply. Access to productive agricultural land will be a major competitive advantage. Protecting Swedish agricultural land is an investment for the future. We must avoid using valuable agricultural land for other purposes such as shopping centres and motorways. Mr. Old President! As I said, our own environmental objectives are important for our national food strategy. It is also, of course, as has been mentioned earlier, the UN's global sustainability target by 2030 that was decided last autumn. One of the UN targets is to ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns, including by halving food waste. That is an objective that I know many of us want to see in the forthcoming food strategy. Ensuring food security in Sweden and the world is not just about increasing food production. It is also, perhaps even more so, that the food produced is fairly distributed, that it is eaten and not thrown away and, of course, that we eat more cereals, beans and vegetables instead of using them for feed. There are many other things in the UN's sustainability goals that it is also important that we implement in the food strategy, such as introducing agricultural practices that better contribute to maintaining ecosystems. Methods that strengthen adaptation to climate change, extreme weather conditions, droughts, floods and other disasters and gradually improve soil and soil quality are important. There are also objectives to maintain the genetic diversity of seeds, cultivated plants, farmed animals and domestic animals. These are just a few things that are included in the UN Sustainable Development Goals and that are very important that we make sure that we get involved in our food strategy. Mr. Old President! Sweden is today far from self-sufficient in food. Most of the inputs currently used in agriculture, such as fertilisers and fossil fuels, cannot be produced in Sweden. This means that we have a low level of emergency preparedness. We are all in a position to have a high level of food emergency preparedness. We can strengthen it by converting to fossil-free and by replacing the input funds with renewables that can be produced in Sweden. Mr. Old President! Increased sustainable food production in Sweden is also about improved crisis preparedness.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-791	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Stina Bergström, for your speech. I would like to start by addressing the same question to you as I did to the Social Democrats in the past, and it is about legislation on labelling. The Minister for Rural Development has said that the new voluntary labelling produced by the industry and launched yesterday means that no legislation is needed. Then I wonder whether Stina Bergström believes that this is the position of the whole government and whether the Green Party is therefore behind it. Stina Bergström talked a lot about organic production and consumption and mentioned the programme Caliber. Some of the problems that I tried to mention in the previous reply were made clear, i.e. that if you make demands of the way they do in Swedish municipalities to shop organically, there is a risk that environmentally friendly Swedish products are displaced by organic products produced elsewhere, where the environmental benefit is not necessarily greater but, on the contrary, may be significantly less. How do the Green Party and Stina Bergström view this? The important thing should be to ensure the overall environmental impact of the products you buy. You might make it a little easy for yourself at the municipalities if you decide that you should buy just organically. It would be more relevant to set specific environmental requirements on the basis of the environmental benefits to be achieved. Then Swedish products could do well in that competition. I also wonder how the Green Party views the problem of plant protection products. The Agency is now making a completely different interpretation of EU regulations than other countries. This risks destroying Swedish agriculture to a large extent. Is that really reasonable? How does Stina Bergström view it, and what is the Green Party prepared to do to solve these problems?
i-LGzzcxRWXENAeMs1JMWV63	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler, for three very exciting questions! As far as the legislation is concerned, I stood in this House as late as last year and talked about the importance of having an origin mark. I talked about the difficulty of reading the fine print on the cream to see where it comes from and sometimes you can't even see where it comes from. It is great that this label comes now, that it will say on the things that they are from Sweden. But we need to see how much of the goods will be labelled. The Green Party would like to see origin marking also on food in restaurants. Will it come now? It is a little early to say that we do not need legislation. But the initiatives are great. I'm hoping for a continuation. When it comes to pushing aside, I don't know if I see the big problem. For example, much of what municipalities and county councils buy up is Swedish milk. That's a big part of the fact that the organic has increased a lot. Much of what you buy from outside, for example in schools, is bananas. Bananas do not grow in Sweden. Of course you have to buy organic bananas from outside. I rather believe that it encourages more organic production in Sweden when municipalities set these requirements. As far as chemicals legislation is concerned, I would ask Jonas Gjörtler to specify which pesticides he thinks KemI is harder with than other countries. Then I can answer the question better.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-799	Mr. Old President! Stina Bergström does not see the problem of municipalities choosing to shop organically. A problem was just highlighted in Caliber. I think Gothenburg was an example. There the demands have been made in such a way that Swedish production cannot deliver. Then you have to buy the products from outside. It risks being counterproductive. The relevant thing should be to set the right environmental requirements, not to impose ecological requirements. What we want to ensure is that the environment can be improved. Those are the requirements we're going to make. As far as plant protection products are concerned, we have mentioned three specific cases. The most obvious of them is the onion plantation and weeding agent Stomp. Use is allowed in other EU countries but not in Sweden. This is no longer an exemption. Then much of the Swedish onion cultivation disappears. You cannot grow onions unless you are allowed to use that plant protection product. The consequence is that we import the onion instead because Swedish consumers can no longer buy onion from Sweden. It is then imported from other countries, from Holland and France, where five times as much of the same plant protection products as Swedish growers do. Swedish growers are good at not using much plant protection products. It's like the antibiotics. We do not use the funds for preventive purposes, but they are used when they are needed. And we use very little in Sweden. How, then, is it good for the environment that we import products where much more funds have been used? Here, too, it risks being counterproductive. It is the Green Party that is responsible for these issues. The Chemicals Inspectorate is within Åsa Romson's area of responsibility. What is the Green Party prepared to do to help Swedish agriculture so that we do not knock out agriculture and are allowed to import products from countries with lower requirements?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-804	Mr. Old President! Setting environmental requirements in procurement is a good thing. However, making demands on organic food is not only about the environment in Sweden but also about public health and about wanting non-toxic products for children in schools and preschools, for example. I understand that the municipalities are making those demands. You cannot make demands on a certain certification or such things, but you can tell what you want. As regards the pesticide Stomp and onion cultivation, it has no product authorisation in Sweden. It is simply because it has not been applied for. It has been exempt for many years. Now Keml is not prepared to grant an exemption for another year. That's how it's done. It has not been investigated in Sweden how dangerous this medicine really is. The reason for doing so is that the active ingredient in the pesticide, which has been authorised in the EU, is under review this year. It is believed that it is carcinogenic. It worries me a lot and makes me think about what the Green Party is going to do. But it's a mission that's on Keml. I understand that they are cautious about granting an additional year's exemption. We need other means to grow onions. One way is to move to more organic farming. Organic onion farming does not have pesticides. I believe that many of the growers may need support for this in different ways. This could be looked at in future rural programmes and such things.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-808	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank Stina Bergström for her speech. There is a milk crisis in our country. Five dairy farmers quit every week. We import lots of products from different parts of our world. What do you think you should do to stop this?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-810	Mr. Old President! I mentioned a few things in my speech. We in Sweden need to be better at processing our products. One problem, for example, is that we have laid out cheese production, which largely takes place abroad. By instead producing more cheese in Sweden, the demand for Swedish cheese is growing. This will also lead to increased profitability in this industry. I also believe that the labelling that is now under way will make it easier to see in the store which milk is actually Swedish. Today there are many dairy products that do not come from Sweden, but as you might think they do. Many consumers want to buy milk from Sweden. There is much that can make it less profitable to be a dairy farmer in Sweden today. It is largely about the costs of building, labour costs and such things. Maybe there's not much to do about it. But we must be very careful about the added value of Swedish milk. It is about our strong animal welfare and our low antibiotic use. It is important that we promote it abroad. There is also a craving for such products in the EU now. Then it is important that we go out and tell them that the Swedish products have those values.
i-592NrryvPQaZiBBhMCvP8F	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Stina, for your answer. The number of dairy farmers has been halved in ten years. Of course, it's not all your fault. It has been going on for a long time. But you're in charge of government right now. I was in your country a few weeks ago and I met some dairy farmers there. A lot of people are sorry it doesn't work. The milk price is down to 2.50 now. It is felt that the government is not doing enough. You're talking about added value. It's beautiful things. But the farmers need money right now. What should we do concretely, to make it more profitable for them and for Swedish milk production at all?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-817	Mr. Old President! Nothing is being done to help the dairy farmers," says Magnus Oscarsson. I have here a whole list of things the government has introduced. I'm not going to read them all out, but I'll give you a few examples. Aid to milk producers has been introduced, half of which is paid for by the EU and half by the Swedish State. The total amount of aid amounts to 152 million. We've increased the methane support. It is good to have many legs to stand on when you have farms. Methane subsidies allow many farmers to start producing methane gas that can be upgraded to vehicle gas. We have set aside 150 million for increased cloven-hoofed health care for dairy cows. Nevertheless, I think that our Rural Minister has done a great deal to meet the slump in milk production. There is certainly more to be done, but we see that the dairy farmers who have switched their production to organic ones are doing better. You get paid more for organic milk. There is also increased profitability for farmers who have dairy cows, grow grain and grassland. Prices of cereals have risen. That way there are more things to do. It is important that we help our farmers to switch to organic farming. That is what will be more profitable in the future.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-822	Mr. Old President! Since the mid-1990s, food production in Sweden has collapsed. Today, about half of all food consumed in Sweden is imported. It is a direct consequence of Sweden's accession to the EU. With the European Union, we have a completely free market, and we also have a common agricultural policy dictated by Brussels. This has benefited large-scale farming at the expense of small farmers, at the expense of Swedish food producers. About one farmer a day has closed down its agriculture in Sweden in recent years. Some may think that this is a price that we will have to pay for EU membership. But we in the Left Party think that something needs to be done to produce more food in Sweden in a sustainable way. We should be able to become almost self-sufficient in food in Sweden. We have clean soils, relatively clean water, skilled farmers and consumers who want to buy locally produced food. We do not have antibiotics or hormones added to our food. But if this is to happen, we need a strategy for sustainable food production, and it has been discussed by several. But I see some dimensions in such a strategy that we in the Left Party want to highlight, and I am not quite sure that other parties want it. I am the last speaker today, but I urge everyone involved in the debate to take the floor so that there can be a debate on these issues. We in the Left Party, for example, want a goal to be set for self-sufficiency in food production in Sweden. Magnus Oscarsson was previously into it and wondered what happens at a crisis. I can tell you. After three days, the shelves are empty. For example, we believe that 85% of the food consumed should be produced in Sweden. We want subsidies for those who produce what we call public goods. If you can produce in such a way that it helps to achieve our environmental objectives, that it reduces greenhouse gas emissions, that animals are treated well, then you should be able to receive subsidies. However, the form of routine production subsidies paid from Brussels is not a good contribution, because they benefit large producers and knock out small producers. There is no environmental benefit whatsoever from these grants. We believe that our public purchasers should be able to procure Swedish-produced and locally produced food. This should be quite clear in the Public Procurement Act. Unfortunately, that is not the case. That law must therefore be amended. We also think that it needs to be consumed less meat and more vegetables in Sweden. I see lots of interesting business opportunities for all producers who want to produce more of sustainable food based on vegetable crops. This would lead to fewer animals having to be reared and slaughtered, to reduced greenhouse gas emissions and to reduced eutrophication. Not least, it would lead to better public health. Eating less meat makes us feel better. It's gonna take a lot harder to deal with food fraud. Food fraud is an industry that spends billions of euros around Europe. There is also an extensive food fraud in Sweden. For example, harsher penalties are needed for those who cheat on food. Until 2006, violations of the Food Act were punishable by prison sentences. That is not the case today. Today, the sanction consists only of fines. Last but not least, we need to leave the EU's common agricultural policy. It is simply a great bureaucratic, money-seeking and environmentally dangerous monster. We could produce much more and better food if we were not involved in the EU's common agricultural policy. We now see that countries like the United Kingdom are making demands of the European Union. Of course, Sweden could make demands and say that we want an exception for the EU's agricultural policy. We want to produce our food ourselves in the way we want to. Mr. Old President! As I said earlier, I am the last speaker. Then you have the great pleasure of listening to previous speakers. I listened with interest to Mr Gjörtler's speech. He said that more severe punishment is needed for those who cheat on food. That is very good, but when we in the Left Party have proposed it – and it is not often that we demand tougher penalties, but in this particular area we want prison sentences to be imposed in case of breaches of the Food Act – you in the Moderates have voted against. We have had interpellation debates with the minister responsible who has said no to that proposal. If you have changed politics, I welcome it. Eskil Erlandsson from the Center Party has unfortunately left the Chamber. But it is not surprising that his project Matlandet Sweden was closed down. This did not create the 20 000 new jobs in Sweden and the extensive development of the Swedish food industry, but unfortunately it was mostly about large galas and fairs where the minister in charge went around and sample food of different kinds. There was also no sustainability dimension in Sweden. That must be done again and it must be done right if we are to invest in Swedish food production. I have heard Magnus Oscarsson from the Christian Democrats many times demanding measures for the Swedish dairy farmers. If we are to be honest, there were quite a few dairy farmers who ceased their activities even under bourgeois rule for eight years. But I would like to ask Magnus Oscarsson: Why do you never hear the Christian Democrats make any demands on Arla? When I talk to dairy farmers, they say: The most important thing for my business is what Arla or other milk buyers pay me for the milk I deliver. Last year, Arla sharply reduced its settlement prices, by about 25 per cent, to those farmers who supply milk. Why? At the same time, Arla can pay millions of salaries to the top that controls the company from below Denmark. I believe that the Christian Democrats could play a role by also addressing that dimension. I clearly agree with Stina Bergström from the Green Party that we should have demands for more organic, both in consumption and in production. But I didn't quite understand where you wanted to put those demands. When we have previously mentioned that we want to include it in the rural programme, where it has existed in the past, we have not received any support from the Green Party. To Runar Filper from the Swedish Democrats, I would like to say that I see that the Swedish Democrats want more of food controls. It's good and important. If I did not hear it wrong, however, Runar Filer said in his speech that food controls are something bureaucratic that is, overall, a major problem for the companies being controlled. But if you want more food controls, then the more of that. In any case, I agree that more food controls are needed if we are to get some order in this industry.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-841	Mr. Old President! I thank Jens Holm, who invites to dance. But he didn't have to worry-- I think I pressed the line button even before he got started. Jens Holm begins his speech with a rather long harang about everything that the Left Party and he himself thinks is negative with EU membership. I have to object a little to that description, which I think is well one-sided and one-track. It is clear that Sweden, which is a small, open and trade-dependent country, has had a huge benefit from being part of this large market. The fact that it is a common market with common ground rules also poses a number of challenges. But there are also great opportunities. Swedish producers have been given an opportunity to enter a market that is much larger than would otherwise be the case. This isn't just going one way, it's going the other way too. This, of course, underlines the importance of having fairly equivalent rules in a single market. It will be very difficult to make this work if Sweden unilaterally has completely different requirements and rules. I have previously pointed out the problem of plant protection products. It will be problematic if we in Sweden say that a number of plant protection products that can be used in other countries should not be allowed here. It destroys Swedish agriculture. I don't really think that's what Jens Holm wants, but you have to see that's the consequence if you say that one should unilaterally have very tough and different requirements in Sweden. Jens Holm raises the issue of self-sufficiency. I do not fully share the description that the level of self-sufficiency is the relevant measure. We would like to see more production in Sweden. We would also like to see more exports. At the same time, however, we should bear in mind that agricultural land, forests etc. may also need to be used for other purposes. We need more biofuels and other things. It is not self-evident that at any given time we should produce a certain percentage of the food we consume. On the other hand, we want production to increase, and I believe that we are in agreement here.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-845	Mr. Old President! As far as plant protection products are concerned, this can be seen in two ways. It can also be a competitive advantage to have a production that uses as little as possible of chemical inputs. But I can agree that they may sometimes be needed. I think it would be good if we could research more plant protection products in Sweden that are as gentle to the environment as possible. I think it is rather that way that we should go, instead of using more of plant protection products and, overall, more of fertilizers and reaching the levels prevailing on the continent. In the latter case, we are putting our feet aside for what is still our best sales argument: that we have reasonably sustainable food production. I asked Jonas Gjörtler and the Moderates a specific question about violations of the Food Act, which until 2006 was punishable by prison sentences. So there was a more deterrent sanction at the time, but it was removed. Is it the case that the Moderates now want prison sentences for violations of the Food Act?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-847	Mr. Old President! Yes, Jens Holm, we want tougher penalties for food fraud and food fraud. We are very clear about that, and we have said that for a long time. On the question of plant protection products, Jens Holm describes it as that this could be a competitive advantage because in that case we will have more environmentally friendly cultivation in Sweden. But that's already the case. Swedish farmers use much less plant protection products than they do in other countries. However, this competitive advantage is quickly turned into a huge disadvantage if we completely destroy Swedish cultivation. If, with a ban on using the funds in total, which now applies, for example, in the field of onion cultivation, Swedish consumers will not be able to buy exemp or the relatively environmentally friendly Swedish onion, but will have to buy products from Holland, France and other countries where much more of these funds are used. I find it very difficult to see how this would be good for the environment, but Jens Holm is happy to explain it to me. We fully agree that better research is needed, and such work is also under way. However, while this work is going on, we cannot put aside the conditions for the cultivation that is currently being carried out. It must be able to exist in the meantime. There is a very ambitious effort to keep down the amount of plant protection products in Sweden. I do not think that any Swedish farmer is interested in using more of these funds than is absolutely necessary. In an earlier speech, Jens Holm talked about this by purchasing Swedish and locally produced products. We know that we cannot, put it that way, in accordance with the procurement rules. However, it is perfectly possible to set environmental requirements. Tough environmental requirements can be imposed when public procurement is carried out. Here I believe that the lock-in to the ecological risks being counterproductive, as I said to the Green Party earlier. The relevant thing must be that public operators impose environmental requirements that will ensure the greatest possible environmental benefit, not that one locks oneself in any particular type of organic production and may have to trade on imports instead.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-851	Mr. Old President! I believe that the major challenge for the Moderates if you want to promote Swedish food production is that you must also be prepared to take a number of battles with the EU. But I don't see that the Moderates would be prepared to take those battles. As far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, environmental requirements can certainly be set. But it is not easy to do so, and it is even more difficult to make requirements for food to be locally produced. We know that several judgments have been passed. One time, for example, Swedish animal welfare legislation has been passed, but the next time it has been judged quite the opposite. That creates a fear and uncertainty among Swedish purchasers that I find very unhappy. Instead, I think it should be a matter of course throughout Europe that we first and foremost buy locally produced food. Then there are plenty of food that we still have to import because it cannot be produced locally. The same applies to the issue of self-sufficiency. Now the Moderates don't want this. However, I think it is a good idea to set a concrete objective for this. I agree that it may sound a little inflexible. But it still says something about what your ambitions are. Above all, you can feel safe in a situation of crisis. Then we know we can do it. We produce food for our people, and that's not the worst. It sounds like we are fairly in agreement on plant protection products. I believe that we can do more to develop many more sustainable plant protection products that do not exist today. That's where the focus needs to be laid.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-855	Mr. Old President! I thank Jens Holm for inviting me to discuss the milk crisis in Sweden. I'm glad you did, Jens Holm, because it can really be discussed much more than is done here in the Swedish Parliament. You say so much that's interesting. You mention Arla, too. I want to tell you, Jens, that two years ago the Christian Democrats had Milk Day in Parliament. When we met all the players – dairies, banks, supermarkets and, of course, farmers – we had a demand that they discuss how they could find ways out of the crisis. As everyone knows, the latter was 87 points and a high-level meeting. We don't know much more about what happened. We are actually standing today without anything happening. You're talking about Arla. What companies and dairies do is up to them. What matters is what we politicians do. The question is, Jens Holm: What do you want to do to save Swedish milk production left in the country, and what do we Christian Democrats and we all want to do here? What sharp suggestions do you have that can make us have Swedish dairy farmers left in the country?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-858	Mr. Old President! To be honest, Magnus Oscarsson, if one focuses unilaterally on us politicians when we know that there is an industry out there that treats the dairy farmers very badly. After Swedish Arla joined with Danish MD Foods, it is one of the world's largest dairy groups. It is entirely controlled by Denmark. It pays as much to Polish farmers as it does to Swedish and Danish farmers. It may sound fair in some way. But at the same time we know that their production costs in Poland are far lower than they are in Denmark and Sweden because they have completely different conditions. That, of course, benefits the directors of Arla. They make a lot of money out of it. They can push the price. That's exactly what they've done. They have reduced settlement prices by 25 per cent over the past year. I have never heard the Christian Democrats and Magnus Oscarsson, who are so incredibly committed to this issue, criticise Arla. It feels rather like he's Arla's best friend when he puts the whole burden on us politicians. I said it before: We will produce more food in Sweden, and we will produce it in a sustainable way. I also know that those who produce organically are paid quite well. I think that is quite right, because they give us added value. Stina Bergström from the Environmental Party also spoke about a number of things that the government has done to accommodate the dairy farmers. I may think that some of those measures may not be the best, but we in the Left Party have backed them up. We've also done things you didn't do in your time. When did you last criticize Arla, Magnus Oscarsson? Don't you think they have a pretty big responsibility in this?
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-866	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Jens Holm, for the interesting questions you are asking me here. You're on the right line, I think. You put the debate on a very interesting issue, namely that our farmers do not compete on the same terms as Europeans. That's exactly right. It's amazing that we're hearing this today. You got the gauntlet. We are constantly talking about the fact that our dairy farmers and our farmers must not compete on equal terms at all. They have a heavy backpack. Who put the weight in the backpack? Well, Mr Holm, it is actually us politicians in this House. We're the ones who put the weight into it. Actually, it is. We have a higher diesel tax than the rest of Europe. We have grazing requirements that only exist in Sweden. We have other things like bureaucracy that cost a terrible amount of money. You're all over this. I think it sounded really exciting. It will be interesting to continue the debate with you another time, Jens. I think we're on the right line.
i-32a1f7bcac8fe5ee-871	Mr. Old President! It's sweet music in the ears of Danish directors when they listen to Magnus Oscarsson. I think they laugh all the way to the bank, Magnus, when they hear a Swedish Member of Parliament saying: It's all political fault! I asked you, when was the last time you criticized Arla? You can't tell me when you did. Don't you think one of the world's largest dairy groups has a responsibility? Don't you think they have a responsibility when they draw the price that they pay to Swedish dairy farmers so incredibly much that they don't get everyday life to go around? Don't they have a responsibility? At the same time, they pay millions of bonuses to their directors. There's something I can't really get together. I said in my speech that accession to the EU has given much worse conditions for Swedish farmers. It is big drive down on the continent that benefits at the expense of Swedish small farmers. That's what it's all about. That is what I mean is the big difference in Swedish production and production down on the continent. That our cows should go outdoors and graze is only good for the cow and only good for those who sell that milk. The farmer who doesn't use it as an argument is a bit stupid. Now I know that almost every farmer uses it as an argument. That is a very heavy and good argument. Of course, we're going to continue with the outside drive.
