i-66875c1589cc6559-5	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask has asked me how I view the development of crime in the Järva field and how I want to work to increase confidence in the police in the area, reduce deadly violence and improve police results in this type of alienation. In both larger and smaller towns around Sweden, there are residential areas that have increasingly come to be characterised by crime, social unrest and insecurity. Unfortunately, the Järva field is one of several examples. The causes of the problems are complex and multifaceted. For the government, it is very important to take measures that can help to improve the situation in these areas. The possibility of living a safe life without crime should not depend on the area in which people live. The problem needs to be addressed from a number of quarters and through joint action by society as a whole. In particular, measures are needed to reduce the social gaps that create the conditions for these problems. Jobs, good housing, a good school and an inclusive society are fundamental to reverse developments. Of course, in order to overcome the problems that exist in some areas, the judiciary has part of the responsibility. There is a need for a locally based and present police force, as well as active law enforcement and crime prevention work involving many different actors. In December, the Head of National Police presented 14 priority areas where police regions will intensify law enforcement, crime prevention and security-building. Rinkeby/ Tensta at Järvafältet is one of the priority areas. As Beatrice Ask mentions, a new, larger police office will be inaugurated in Rinkeby. Municipal and district police officers shall be present in the priority areas, which, together with other staff, shall work to create secure areas with a high level of confidence in the police. The Government has presented a number of concrete measures addressing the problems in vulnerable areas in particular. For example, the government's mission to the Police Authority and eleven other authorities to develop forms of local cooperation against organised crime. In the mission, the government has emphasised the importance of working against organised crime in particularly vulnerable areas. The government has also intensified the crime prevention work with a national initiative. The Crime Prevention Council, Brå, will develop a national support and coordination function for crime prevention. In addition, Brå has been tasked with identifying measures to combat crime and increase security in socially vulnerable areas and will present the results in November. The situation in vulnerable areas is thus handled from several perspectives, and the government has implemented several measures. However, this is a complex problem to be taken seriously, and I will continue to follow it closely.
i-66875c1589cc6559-13	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your reply. However, I am not satisfied with comments that the problem on the Järva field is one of several examples. I think it is time to start talking about the actual problems, which are partly different in different areas, and to discuss what needs to be done in concrete terms. In both Tensta and Rinkeby, crime is relatively high at the centre units. There is access to communications and shops, and many people gather. The square and the bow are natural meeting places for young people, and there are open drug sales. Many young people use cannabis throughout the area, but cocaine has become increasingly popular in recent years. Of course, there are also pure pill abuse and combinations. There are plenty of drugs, and we know that the numbers of darkness are great. It is said that a large part of all drugs in the Stockholm area in one way or another have their regional origin in Järva. The area is a hub for drug sales throughout the Stockholm region, with all the problems involved. Police have applied for camera surveillance in Tensta City Centre and Rinkeby City Centre. The County Administrative Board said yes. However, the decision was appealed by the Swedish Data Protection Authority, and the administrative court followed their line. Now they have received a leave of appeal in the Administrative Court of Appeal and are waiting for what will happen there. There are a lot of criminally burdened people living in these neighborhoods. They commit burglaries and robbery, they are often young and usually locally anchored. They are part of loosely assembled networks, have good local knowledge and get quite easy disposal for the stolen goods they come across. Of course, they do not run the school. Many have completed comprehensive school without complete grades, and older people, of course, recruit these young people to make them commit more serious crimes – a career path that unfortunately works. Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Minister for the Interior says that the causes of the problems are complex. That's it. But now the situation is as it is on the Järva field. Progress is going in the wrong direction, and any decency towards honest people living in the area and towards the future for all of us requires concrete and resolute action. The answer points out that there will be a new police station, which is quite true, which is supposed to accommodate 250 people. The problem is that this police station will not be ready until 2018, and there is still a bit to go. There are currently 180 police officers on paper, and there is a local police officer in every district. These problems are not far enough. There is nothing to say that what is now being done will be enough to sort out the problems in these areas. It takes more than a new space. It takes more from a lot of different directions. The police also say that the police resources are not enough, either in Järva or in general in the country, and Järva says that it is not possible to achieve the ambition that half of the working time can be used in external service, which is absolutely necessary to get the local support required in this area. Does Anders Ygeman really believe that the measures now mentioned are sufficient to secure the security of the Järva field? I don't think so. I wonder what the government is going to do. Giving assignments about different forms of collaboration is one thing, but I do not believe that government assignments are the answer to the acute and difficult problems people face in the Järva field.
i-66875c1589cc6559-23	Mr President, I would like to The problems are complex, and yet I believe that some humility in the face of these problems is in place, especially if we have been responsible for development for eight years and have been responsible for the number of police officers we have today. It's true that we're getting a new police station in Rinkeby with over 200 police employees. I believe that more police officers closer to the citizens, which is the aim of the reform agreed between me and Beatrice Ask, are an important part of restoring the security of the citizens. I cannot comment on the judicial review of camera surveillance, but in general I believe that the balance between integrity and efficiency deserves to be reviewed. For example, I was very surprised that the Jewish congregation in Malmö did not get permission for camera surveillance because the threat was not perceived to be strong enough, while the police placed policemen armed with reinforcement weapons and machine weapons precisely because the threat was so great. This is why the government has set up an investigation in the area of camera surveillance, which will report its results in a fairly short time. With regard to developments in Järva and in other similar areas, I believe that there must be two main tracks on the part of the police. One is more police officers closer to the citizen who solve everyday crimes, whether it is car theft or burglary in the attic. The second is to take out the key people who represent a large part of crime and prosecute them and ensure that they are put behind bars. At Järvafältet, the police have been relatively successful in a project that started during Beatrice Ask's time as Minister of Justice, namely Operation Fenix. I see that these two efforts have to go on at the same time. So this applies both to massive security measures on the part of the police, which build confidence in the police forces, their ability to solve crime and create security in the areas, and to targeted efforts to eliminate organised crime. Beatrice Ask makes a little fun of the joint mission of the authorities to combat organised crime. But what is sharp and good in that mission is that you can work locally on Järvafältet with all the authorities that are effective in taking out organised crime. In the past, it has only been possible to do so at national level. If we're going to take out organized crime, we have to go after the money. We have to pick off the criminal elements money, watches and cars that have been the result of criminal activity. Therefore, the government also increases the possibility of forfeiting such assets. It is an effective measure. One last thing I would like to mention when we talk about serious organised crime is the possibility of combating the supply of weapons. Beatrice Ask's government doubled the penalties for gun crimes and serious weapons crimes. That's good. Now this government is moving forward and making corresponding changes in the penalties for hand grenades and explosives, which, unfortunately, was not included in the previous government's proposal. I have personally been to the Balkans this week and have met police and liaison officers in Belgrade, Sarajevo and Banja Luka in order to create better contact points and better intelligence in order to seize more weapons. Already today, information from Serbia, for example, forms the basis of a weapons seizure this week. There could be more. We know that there are 4 million weapons in circulation in the Western Balkans. We will do what we can to strangle the influx to Sweden.
i-66875c1589cc6559-33	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for the Interior thinks that you should show some humility, especially if you have been Minister of Justice for eight years. I am well aware of my responsibilities and responsibilities, but I am not humble. I am angry, upset and despaired that we have still not solved the problems without seeing districts in the Järva field that go backwards, that crime, despite all the measures, digs deeper into society and makes ordinary honest citizens unable to live a safe life. Then it is not a matter of me showing humility. Then it is a question of what we can do to change this. The police have presented a report showing that there are a number of severely affected areas. I am now focusing on Järva. My view is that there is a need for a concrete programme for every one of the areas where all the resources and energy are invested in actually following up every single measure until we put an end to the problems. Now the government is reporting some things, and that is very good. It is amazing that we are now getting a bill on the serious drug offences. The Alliance government made sure that the issues were investigated and dealt with in order, and there is now a bill. Great! Measures that strengthen the management of access to arms are good. It has also been announced in the media that the announcement made by the Riksdag on criminal measures against organised crime should come into place. I am very pleased with that. But legislative measures will not be enough. It takes someone to step forward and try to show some muscle in the work against crime. I debated these issues in social media the other day, and I received answers from the City Director in Stockholm, Lars Rådh. It's a good person. He said there's good cooperation between the police and the county in Järvafältet. That's good. But I want something more concrete to happen. There are shootings, and there are a number of unsolved murders just from the last year. Innocent people have been hit by shots that have gone the wrong way. They're bad at shooting. There's an open drug sale. Authorities and companies do not want to establish themselves in the areas. That's not enough. We need to look at the problems in concrete terms. We shouldn't be humble. Let's not think about how to solve all the problems. The best thing would be for us in this Parliament to be able to abolish immediately all social problems and poverty in the world. There are many good things that it would be fun to do, but it's here and now so we can't. There are obvious problems. There are citizens to take responsibility for. Nevertheless, I would like to ask for some concrete answers. The head of the National Police has called for more police officers and more staff to the police. I suppose that's absolutely necessary. We Moderates have said that we are prepared to provide funds. We did so in our budget. But I think it's going to take more. Above all, we must take the report from the police and the day-to-day reports from area by area as the basis for concrete and precise work. Of course, one thing the Riksdag cannot decide is that more social workers are needed in external service – people of flesh and blood out there. There are some voluntary organisations that do things, but there is a need for more strength, concreteness and leadership to take on the work. I understand that the Minister for the Interior has a lot to do, but since no one else is tackling the problems, I would nevertheless call for a little more initiative than an official mission to Brå and general legislative measures to tighten the sanctions for serious crimes. There is a serious situation in many parts of Sweden. The Järva field in Stockholm is an example.
i-66875c1589cc6559-41	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what Beatrice Ask says. I share the anger, the anger and the despair. I agree that there is a need for more measures. It is clear that the measures taken so far have not been enough. That is why we called for the investigation and proposed measures by the police to reverse developments. I also call for some humility. If you are to fight crime, you have to have a broader perspective than just police and batons. For eight, ten, twelve years in Sweden, progress has gone in the wrong direction. Unemployment has risen, gaps have grown and school results have fallen. It is not surprising, then, that it results in a worse development. The worst development has been in the exclusion areas. I dare to argue that Swedish society has largely left the areas outside – this applies not least to the government that Beatrice Ask put in – while unemployment has increased, gaps have grown and school results have fallen. This has happened in those areas. Many inhabitants of these areas wonder about their future. They wonder if the rest of society is up to them. In fact, that is where we owe the answer. We must reduce unemployment. We have to reverse the trend in school. We have to close the gaps. We cannot reverse developments in alienation areas by means of fine projects, but we must do so, in the words of Beatrice Ask, with concrete action. I'm in charge of the police. The police have identified the problems. It has also been said that it is prepared to be part of the solution with more police closer to the citizens and with a clear focus on the fact that it is in those areas that it is most important to increase police presence. The police are also prepared to work with other important authorities, such as the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, to end organised crime and obtain information that can put criminals behind bars. Just as Beatrice Ask has been concerned, other players need to be on the track, the municipalities spend money on the schools in the area, the field assistants are on the streets, the Social Insurance Agency does not leave the area. It was close to happening in Botkyrka, but the Social Insurance Agency changed its luck. There must be recreation centres, schools, enhanced maternal care. That's all it takes. Investment must increase, not decrease, in these areas. The rest of society should go there rather than go there. The last thing Beatrice Ask said was that someone had to put on the lead shirt. I'm ready to put on my shirt. I am prepared to work to ensure that next time we go to elections, developments have reversed in some of the 14 areas. We may not be able to turn everyone around in the two-and-a-half years left in the elections, but we will ensure that there are more police officers closer to the citizens in these areas and we will ensure that developments actually turn around in some of the areas. We shall ensure that we deepen the statistics and knowledge of the development of crime and the security of these areas so that even an active opposition in the form of Beatrice Ask can say even more than today whether the development is going in the right direction or in the wrong direction. To the extent that progress is going in the wrong direction, further action will be required from the government, and I am glad that there is support for it from the opposition.
i-66875c1589cc6559-49	Mr President, I would like to You can't wear the lead shirt if you're in the back seat waiting for an investigation into what it looks like. We all have the facts about what it looks like. We have quite a lot of knowledge – Brå has devoted years to developing data and describing the causes of various problems in vulnerable areas and so on. I read several reports yesterday. There's so much knowledge. The problem is finding effective work against this. There are working models; I think we know that. But there aren't people. A local police officer. You're almost scared when you think about it. A local police officer, obviously a local police officer. Otherwise it is resources that go back and forth and no space for two years. I agree that there's more to it than just a cop. But the police are almost the softest action you can take right now. We will not get any authorities to stop or recruit any jobs with less than getting rid of stones, shootings, open drug sales and other things, and that requires the police to be there and to be able to do their job. I also call for more social workers in external service and for concrete cooperation with other actors. We've been working on this. Something that has been used successfully on the Järva field and in many other places are social intervention groups, which was an initiative that we took. But that's not enough. I am also keen that we get an evaluation of the new camera law that we have now had for some year for the simple reason that in certain situations it is obvious that we should be able to use cameras more. There is frustration in these areas because you do not get people to witness. Then camera surveillance and images from cameras might make more sense. Then we have the whole spectrum with the possibility for the municipality to say no and throw out criminals from municipal premises and much more. But what is needed is a concrete action programme for each of these areas and getting started and working. We Moderates will work for that.
i-66875c1589cc6559-55	Mr President, I would like to That's what it was about humility. I think it would have been very dressy in this case. The Alliance has been responsible for this for eight years, and we have seen unemployment rise, school results fall and gaps grow. And the vulnerability in these areas has grown. It would have been one thing if, after eight years of moderate government, there had been less problems and progress had gone in the right direction. After all, you have been responsible for this development for eight years. There have been more exclusions, and the situation has worsened. Then I'll say I'm ready to take the lead. I am prepared to take steps to reverse this trend, and I welcome this discussion. We will see which measures are most effective. But we can't just turn things around with the police. The police cannot be held responsible alone for the rest of society's failure. It takes school and to reverse school developments. We have had the fastest falling school results throughout the OECD. These developments must be reversed. We've had rising unemployment. It must be turned to sinking. Now unemployment is also falling. Of course, we must also have police action. The police will do their part. We're going to increase our presence in areas. We should be closer to the citizens, and we should improve our cooperation with the other authorities to combat crime. Mr President, I would like to I think it has been a good and fruitful interpellation debate, and I look forward to continuing to discuss developments in the vulnerable areas and the efforts we can jointly make to reduce crime.
i-66875c1589cc6559-62	Mr President, I would like to There is a risk that we will continue our discussion on something like the same theme. Beatrice Ask has asked me when I and the government are going to give directives to and set up an investigation into more stringent sanctions in the event of attacks on blue-light personnel and their vehicles. Furthermore, Beatrice Ask has asked when the investigation will be able to present proposals for action. Finally, she has asked how I and the government will act in the meantime to ensure the safety of ambulance staff, fire defence and police officers on missions in the country's most vulnerable areas. Stencasting, vandalism, threats and violence against blue light personnel have unfortunately been taking place for a long time. Rosengård 2008 and Husby 2013 are two examples of areas where social unrest escalated to regular riots and attacks on public representatives. Insecureness has become commonplace in some parts of these areas. The influence of criminals is increasing, and even there are tendencies towards parallel social structures. This development has been going on for a long time and did so also under the previous government. The development is serious. What we see is the result of a social development in which gaps and socio-economic segregation are increasing. In the areas of social unrest, school outcomes are generally lower, unemployment is higher and the housing situation is more strained than in the rest of society. It leads to a lack of faith in the future and is a breeding ground for crime and extremism. To reverse this trend, efforts are needed from the whole of society and at all levels. The government takes the situation very seriously. In November 2015, the government presented a concerted response to organised crime. It includes missions to the Police Authority and eleven other authorities to develop forms of local cooperation against organised crime. In the mission, the government has emphasised the importance of working against organised crime in particularly vulnerable areas. This should be combined with an effort to prevent crime. The Police Authority recently presented a report in which the Agency identified 53 socio-economically vulnerable areas in Sweden that also have a serious crime. Of these, 14 areas are identified as particularly vulnerable. On the basis of this survey, the Police Authority can now proceed with efforts to combat this crime. This will be done through targeted action against crime and through high presence and long-term crime prevention and security-building work. The work is fully in line with the intentions of the government. In addition, targeted efforts may also be required to address the threat, violence and damage to blue light personnel and their vehicles. At the round table I held a few weeks ago with representatives from blue-light authorities and trade unions, a number of proposals were made for action. I do not rule out that these may lead to legislative action. At the same time, the work carried out by, among others, the South Rescue Service shows that local contact-building work has a good preventive effect. The work has helped to significantly reduce the number of fires and attacks on emergency workers in the context of rescue operations. The necessary measures will now be prepared within the Government Office.
i-66875c1589cc6559-71	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by thanking you for the answer to my interpellation. It is, of course, absolutely appalling that personnel who are taking action to help people in acute and difficult situations are being attacked. For most people, it is quite incomprehensible that this should happen. It is, of course, despicable and unacceptable – police, ambulance and emergency services are there for all citizens. They should meet with respect and be able to perform the vital tasks they are set to perform without being prevented, disturbed or even attacked. In his reply, the Minister discusses the reasons why there are areas of great vulnerability at all. We have been doing this for quite some time, and we can engage in that debate some other time. The best thing would be, as I said in the previous debate, if all social problems could be eliminated, but here and now we still have to deal with a situation where emergency personnel are exposed to helping people and being prevented from saving lives. The question is, what can you do to deal with this? I don't know how many people had time to watch morning television. Maybe the minister did. It was a small feature of the regional news about a meeting you had yesterday on the Järva field because there have recently been problems there. There they discussed with one another what to do. So something happens, but there is still more that needs to be done. The government points to the work on organised crime and that the police and other authorities should find out how to cooperate with each other against organised crime. It's good in itself. But many times stoning and hooliganism are not the expression of organized crime. It is also about young people at an early stage of a criminal lifestyle. It is young people at risk who are idle and do not really know how to behave and who therefore engage in this – and who are of course happy to be recruited by other, heavier-pressed people who think it is good to go after the police. We and them are building an attitude and playing police in a way that is totally unacceptable. It is also for this reason that measures such as those you have had in Malmö are good. Malmö had quite a problem a few years ago. There work was started with these young people, and it has produced results. I am in favour of such initiatives. However, the question for us here in Parliament is: Is there anything that the government and the government can do? This is a problem that we have had before and that exists now, and it will, unfortunately, also come up again. The Minister mentions the round table that representatives of emergency services were invited to a few weeks ago. There they discussed how to ensure good criminal law protection for blue light personnel who are exposed to threats and violence. There are many who think that the penalties for those who attack ambulances, emergency services or police should be tightened up. Is the government prepared to review the sanctions for this type of crime? Another issue is the vulnerability and problem of blue light personnel with or without protected identity. You are not only exposed to threats and attacks in the emergency situation, but you are also being harassed later on. As a result, staff may be concerned. I wonder what concrete action the government might be willing to take and what conclusions the government draws from the views expressed at the meeting.
i-66875c1589cc6559-81	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by being humble and saying that we are drawing conclusions from the meeting. We have just compiled meeting notes and sent them out to the participants. There were a number of wise points of view, but I would be obliged to reply that we should come back to what measures we consider to be effective and would like to proceed with. I can mention a few more issues that were discussed. For paramedics, the problem of mentally ill patients with a history of violence was mentioned. D agents legislation does not allow information on the history of violence to be passed on to the ambulance nurse to be removed. The Patient Data Act puts obstacles in the way. This is a problem area. Mentally ill patients with violent tendencies are the biggest problem for paramedics. It is not the vulnerable areas or organised crime that are the main problem. Against that group too, unfortunately, a penalty should be of minor importance. With regard to civil protection, as Beatrice Ask said, there are a number of good examples of preventive measures. It can also be considered whether the penalties and penalties are optimal given the situation. I do not rule out that we should go further and look at this issue, but it is a little too early to say today. The meeting also expressed some conflicting views as to how such legislation or enforcement would be designed. The police, emergency services and, in part, ambulance services have also worked together various forms of intervention concepts to secure the staff in the concrete situation. Various forms of information were also requested at the meeting, including from the Moderate Council in Stockholm. It is also an issue that we should look at to see if there are effective information measures that could be appropriate. The problem of protected identity and threats raised by Beatrice Ask was also at the meeting. I understood that the main requirement was that one could have what might be called a little disrespectful 'protected identity light', i.e. protection that is not as interference as protected identity, because it has a lot of other negative consequences for the person who has it. But that would mean that you can't find out in the net who your child or wife is and what school the children go to. It's a little less extensive protection, quite simply. We must also consider this issue further in the future work. I can make that promise to Beatrice Ask that we take this very seriously. That's why we called the round table. Our idea is that, based on this, a document should be presented with the proposals for measures that we will continue to work on from the state side. Then it is also necessary that the various actors continue to work on their side. The head of the emergency services is municipal. This requires that municipalities take these issues seriously. These are health and safety issues. The head of ambulance care is located in county councils and regions. Then it is important that they take on their responsibilities and continue to work on these issues. My idea is that we should be able to get a handshake about working on all these fronts and then we should be able to meet again in the group and check out what we have done to secure the work situation one for our bluelight staff. Because, of course, I agree with what Beatrice Ask started with, namely that this is totally unacceptable. We must make every effort to protect the working situation of blue-light personnel.
i-66875c1589cc6559-89	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the memos must be compiled. It takes a little time before you can give an answer. That could be the case. But it is important that something happens fairly quickly. I believe that the rescue services and others expect the government to put its foot down now that this has been lifted up to discus iron. My first question is therefore: when is the government going to finish? When can we get the memos and a list of measures that you are prepared to work on? This, of course, with confidentiality rules and information between different authorities on the transport of mentally ill persons is important, but there are problems with that. One problem, of course, is that if someone is acutely ill, you do not always have time for this routine. It can also be a concern, but you still have to pull out. The big problem, however, is when you are attacked from outside by gangs and others who throw stones and behave themselves. Or as the other week, that ma n comes and will transport away a patient and finds that someone has broken the ambulance. It is absolutely absurd that we can even have such a situation! What can you do? I think sanctions are important. It is society's way of marking how you view this type of crime. These crimes are serious, for they undermine the functioning of society unless emergency workers can work in emergency situations. The sanctions do not solve all the problems, but it is central, and it is also a signal to the staff about how to look at the issue. I have not seen any statistics or follow-up on how existing legislation has been used here. When such attacks have taken place, does one get tough and make a serious mark? I think it is important, not least if you find young people who have been involved in this. It should, of course, be mandatory parenting talks and resolute action if you come up with young people with these kinds of activities. It's not just the police who should handle this. I also believe that this needs to be discussed with surveillance cameras, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, emergency personnel and emergency vehicles can have cameras to document what is happening. It's something that can calm things down. There are measures that need to be taken. I think it is important that we get some answers quickly about what measures you can work with. Then there is the confidentiality of this type of staff. It's very difficult to live with protected identity. It is difficult for a person to have special rules for his or her private life, but there may be situations where this is necessary. Then we must have good rules, so that it also works for the staff. You should not be afraid to practice your profession when you have these important functions. My main question, of course, is: When has the government been thinking? When does the spirit come out of the bottle, so that we can find out if there will be any concrete results from the talks that came out at the government round table in response to attacks on emergency personnel in different parts of the country?
i-66875c1589cc6559-98	Mr President, I would like to When's the government gonna finish? You can make fun of that regardless of the color of the government. The memos from the conversation came as far as I understand last week. During the spring, we will try to present a document on how to proceed with the proposals. As I said earlier, the proposals land a little differently with different principals. It was the ambulance staff themselves who pointed out that it was the mentally ill who were the main problem for them, not social unrest and stoning. Let me comment on the scale of penalties today. When it comes to serious damage, which is usually a question of throwing stones at emergency workers, it is up to four years on the scale of punishment. Then, as Beatrice Ask knows, it is always a question of how the penalty is imposed in that scale. But that is the picture today. There is special protection for officials. It's for the police, but it's not for paramedics. The paramedics were very careful that they did not want that protection, for other reasons. In fact, I think that was the answer to the questions put by Beatrice Ask. We share the problem picture. We are prepared to do something about this with the opposition, but above all with those who work in this environment on a daily basis. We take their concerns and their views very seriously, because it is important that we implement measures that they actually believe are effective on the ground and that can contribute to a better working environment.
i-66875c1589cc6559-104	Mr President, I would like to That's excellent. I look forward to getting the concrete proposals that can be expected. I also believe that ambulance staff have a special situation. But when you talk about expressing staff generally, I think that in some situations it can be good with cameras, not only general camera surveillance but also other things. The police use camera in certain situations. This is done to ensure that you can show that you have acted in a reasonable way yourself but also because it sometimes has a calming effect on other actors. It is therefore a little different types of operations and different situations we have to deal with. But I think you have to take different types of problems seriously and see what you do for each group. Then there are the sanctions. Yes, we have general rules. There are also rules dealing with attacks against authorities or the exercise of authority. I'm still thinking about something. There is a lot of criticism that it is not being used or expressed. In the case of vandalism, there are not usually very heavy penalties. It may seem particularly serious if you attack an ambulance, a rescue car, or a police car, as well as the opportunity for people to receive vital help. That is the problem that I think we need to discuss. Should it be an aggravating circumstance that has a better impact on the judgment of the courts? And do we take the impression of the seriousness of this particular type of activity? That's a question I have. I'm not entirely clear where we stand today. I think we need to follow up on that in the future.
i-66875c1589cc6559-108	Mr President, I would like to I will say that we have a reasonably good picture, but we need a deeper picture of how the courts judge in these cases and where it is effective to go in with a possible penalty. When we're done with that material, I won't mind sharing it. Then we can discuss together what measures could be most effective. I'll also say that I share Beatrice Ask's positive view of body-borne cameras on rescue teams. To a large extent, the police in Järva have it today. It might be interesting to go further and make comparative studies of the effect of such cameras in some different neighborhoods. One would then allow police, ambulance and fire brigades to have cameras in some areas and compare with developments in areas where they do not. Then you can measure efficiency and see what is most effective. But I also have a fundamentally positive view of this type of action.
i-66875c1589cc6559-110	Mr President, I would like to Jan Andersson has asked me what measures have been taken to facilitate the recruitment of part-time firefighters. Municipal civil protection activities are of great importance for people's safety and security. Civil protection organised with part-time firefighters is an important basis for this activity. It is the municipality that is responsible for planning and organising emergency services so that rescue operations can start within an acceptable time and be implemented effectively within the municipality. Many municipalities today find it difficult to recruit part-time firefighters. According to the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, this has resulted in several municipalities not being able to maintain their planned preparedness for civil protection at times. I take this seriously and closely monitor developments in this area. Over time, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency has provided assistance to municipalities in organising civil protection with part-time firefighters. In addition to existing training activities, the Authority has developed internet-based support for municipalities for their implementation of preparatory training. In addition, the agency, together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, set up a working group to focus on the recruitment of part-time firefighters. Within the Ministry of Justice, work is under way which focuses on the fact that further measures may be necessary to improve the overall capacity of municipalities to organise their civil protection services with part-time firemen. As soon as possible, I will inform you of the outcome of these considerations.
i-66875c1589cc6559-116	Mr President, I would like to The prerequisite for living rural areas is, of course, that the social structures are in place. One of the first and perhaps most important social structures is protection against accidents. There, rescue services with part-time fire brigades are incredibly important. This is not a new problem, but it is a growing problem. It's a bigger and bigger problem. At about the same time as Ygeman, I was elected to the Committee on Defence, which prepares these questions. During this time I have visited a number of fire stations. At all the fire stations I've visited, I've been faced with the same problem. They say: It is not a new problem. Some measures have been taken, but at the same time other measures have been taken which have made it more difficult for the fire brigade to recruit part-time firefighters. New charges, new regulations and new trainings make it more difficult and difficult. Then, of course, there is a social structure that is transformed, which has meant that fewer people work in rural areas and that more people may buy and get their services in cities instead of in rural areas. That, of course, has made this difficult. You can't blame me or the government for that, but that's what it looks like. I asked Minister Ygeman a question quite exactly a year ago. I asked him what action he had taken. I am now asking a similar question. In the answer given by Ygeman, he says that last year there was a collaboration between the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and a working group that will focus on the recruitment of part-time firefighters. In fact, that is not true, because that work has not begun. There may be ambition to do so, but such work has not been started. There is also, as the Government talks about, an internet-based educational platform. I can well say in this context that that platform was in place sometime in 2013 or 2014. It is therefore not something that Ygeman has contributed to either. What I find problematic is that the issues that are going to be discussed with various interested and SKL together with MSB will not get their own place, but they will be baked into other issues. This means that these issues will not be given the full priority that could have been desired. I can nevertheless welcome the fact that there is work going on to look at the issues relating to the recruitment of part-time firefighters. It is led by the National Association of Firefighters and SKL. This is, as it were, the result of the conflict that existed during the summer. A major problem in this conflict was that the question of recruitment was so difficult that it was difficult to agree on the other parts. As a result, these two parties began work to determine how more part - time firemen could be recruited. I don't suppose a week goes by without watching TV or reading in local newspapers that there are problems. Therefore, it is good that there is work at the department, as Ygeman reports in his answer. The hopes on my part and, I believe, on the part of many others are that the experience that exists is being taken into account, including in the work that is currently under way. So this is an issue which, I would say, threatens the entire Swedish civil protection model. We see that other countries have switched to another type of civil protection; we are moving from part-time to full-time. It is clear that this would have a major impact on the entire civil protection structure. I also think there would be great costs. In my first speech, however, I can finally welcome Mr Ygeman's announcement that on Tuesday next week the Committee on Defence will present an announcement on how more part-time firemen can be recruited. I am, of course, prepared to help you in this matter.
i-66875c1589cc6559-126	Mr President, I would like to I naturally welcome Jan Andersson's commitment to this issue, his help to the Government and the Government and also the announcement that the Committee on Defence is planning to make. This makes it possible to report back to the Riksdag in an organised form the measures that are now being prepared within the Ministry and that will later be presented and can be presented in response to the announcement that the Riksdag will obviously make. I share the description of the problems expressed by Jan Andersson. There is a real problem here. We have a shortcoming in the recruitment of part-time firefighters and we need to look at how the system will work forward in order to ensure a good recruitment and also a good function for our rescue services around the country. Above all, this is a rural issue. One must probably look at a rather broad perspective and see what makes those who were previously prepared to take on a task as part-time firefighters are not today. It can be about patterns of residence that change. These may be labour law rules that change. It can also be about how employers look at having part-time firefighters employed – if you see it as a merit, something useful and something that can enrich your own business or if you see it as something difficult and a problem that makes it disappear skills and resources from your own business. Perhaps we should also look at how part-time firefighters can be placed in a broader perspective. All these questions are looked at in the Ministry, and we return to the Riksdag, apparently in response to the announcement that Jan R Andersson is planning together with colleagues in the Defence Committee.
i-66875c1589cc6559-130	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for further answers from the Government. Not everyone even agrees that there is a problem. For example, SKL has expressed doubts as to whether there is a real recruitment problem in the case of part-time firefighters. Therefore, I think it is grateful that the Government shares this view fully – I think that is important for the operation. I was going to ask the Government—it was one of the questions he answered—what measures are being prepared. It's good to have a broad vision. However, public rescue services have completely different conditions, and I think it would be useful to distinguish these issues so that special attention is paid to part-time firefighters, because these are very different conditions for the recruitment of part-time firefighters and regular firefighters. Recruiting regular firefighters has never really been a big problem. I suppose my question should be about what happens in time. Over the past year, it has been observed that very little has happened in these matters, although other things have happened in the world. But that does not prevent two issues from being resolved at the same time. What is the timetable for delivering answers to the questions I have asked? This is not my crusade in private, but it is an issue that exists in every municipality, and it is an issue that every local politician has on his table. We must take responsibility, those of us who have the authorities who are sitting on the knowledge of how the operation works, but also those of us who are sitting on the opportunity to change the rules. One issue that we in the Committee on Defence have raised is whether there must be only two training points for training part-time firefighters. For many people it is difficult to be away from home maybe three or four weeks at a time. If you could find more places to study locally, it would make it easier. There is currently no shortage of fire drill sites, but each municipality has in principle some form of fire drill sites, although they may use different municipal associations. Therefore, it should be a simple measure not to require the two rescue schools to be the only places in the country that train firefighters on a full-time and part-time basis. So I have the questions: What is the time perspective of the department on these issues? Will it also involve the trade and trade union, the Brandmännens Riksförbund, which is the main partner in these issues and sits on a lot of knowledge? Will they be involved in the work done at the department?
i-66875c1589cc6559-138	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, always difficult to provide a concrete timetable for work. If the Riksdag makes an announcement, there will be a report in the annual letter until the end of the year. But I hope that we will be able to give answers to some of the questions that Jan R Andersson is asking considerably earlier. We can set the summer as a common goal, so Jan R Andersson may have the opportunity to make a new interpellation and make the Government responsible for that he has not managed to fully meet the expectations he set out in this interpellation response. As far as SKL is concerned, one might wonder from a government perspective: If there are problems with recruiting part-time firefighters, the question of compensation is, of course, something to discuss. But there may be some reluctance to discuss it on that side. As far as the rescue schools are concerned, there is currently a review at the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and a review of how the whole education concept should look like. I believe that it will be presented within the next month how this work is progressing. There are double requests here. There is a desire to have strong competence and gather it. Then you have these rescue schools. Then there are requests from firemen to be as short a time from home as possible and to have the training as close as possible and as flexible as possible in relation to the usual work schedule. We will see what conclusions MSB draws from this review, which is already available, at least in draft form. It will be presented shortly.
i-66875c1589cc6559-142	Mr President, I would like to Having noted that the last year has not meant anything in practical events, one must be grateful for the fact that the Government now says that proposals hopefully come before the summer. I believe that the Government is aware that the two interpellations that I have so far put on this issue will render a third interpellation if action is not taken. And what is needed is not just action but action that produces results. If you are going to get results, I think you have to involve those who have the actual knowledge and have these problems on a daily basis. In this sense, SKL may not be the best party, but there are more stakeholders in the matter. I therefore hope that it will not only be SKL and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency that will take the issue, but that it will have a broader perspective, so that it will actually be a solution to the issues. If that is not the case, I can promise, Mr President, that I will come back with a third interpellation on the subject.
i-66875c1589cc6559-145	Mr President, I would like to I suspect that whatever the results and schedule, I and Jan Andersson will meet in this House and discuss part-time firefighters. But I think it is fundamentally good, because it is an issue that does not always get the attention it deserves, and it is good that there are Members of Parliament who highlight such issues, are pushing the government to achieve better results in this way. It's necessary, so thank you!
i-66875c1589cc6559-147	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson has asked me whether I intend to come up with a new proposal to address the problems surrounding the increasingly missed cash management and the nature of these measures. Furthermore, Håkan Svenneling has asked me whether I believe that the Payment Service investigation solves people's problems with being able to deposit and withdraw cash and what I intend to do to make it easier for companies and associations that do not get access to payment services. On 14 January 2016, the 2015 payment services inquiry presented its interim report Access to payment accounts with basic features. The study considers that the legislative measures that could be considered to meet the remaining cash needs are not proportionate to the scale of the problems. The interim report is currently being referred to 49 different bodies and the deadline is 15 March 2016. In this context, I would like to mention once again the task of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, PTS, together with the County Administrative Board of Dalarna, the Swedish Growth Agency and the Swedish Agency for Growth Policy Evaluations and Analysis, to support the county administrative boards in their efforts to design and implement regional support and development efforts to ensure access to basic payment services in those areas and rural areas where the need is not met by the market. These services include, among other things, the possibility to withdraw cash and the handling of day funds. As far as is clear from the county boards' annual report for 2015, regarding their supervision of basic payment services, the county boards have received a collaboration with Sparbankernas Riksförbund and the Swedish Bankers' Association. This cooperation consists of meetings a couple of times a year and of e-mail contacts where various questions are resolved if necessary. The cooperation enables county boards to address the problems with cash management that they face and the effects of these. Furthermore, banking organisations are involved in the innovation procurement that has just begun and which aims, among other things, to facilitate those individuals who have the greatest problems with existing payment services. Finally, the appropriation 5:1 is increased by the County Administrative Boards, etc. from 2016 with 5 million SEK for information efforts to support and develop services in rural areas where the work with payment services is an important part. I would like to await the outcome of the consultation before taking a position on whether further measures, in addition to the work carried out by the county administrative boards, need to be taken and what these measures should be like in that case.
i-66875c1589cc6559-151	Mr President, I would like to We live in a Sweden where technology development is very fast, while it has become an artefact in itself to be able to deposit cash and withdraw its own money at the bank. That is what Sweden looks like today. It is a reality that affects very many people and affects the conditions and lives of many people, associations and companies. Already under the bourgeois government, the Left Party repeatedly pushed forward and highlighted the issue of cash handling and the lack of access to cash in society. The current government with the minister responsible who is here today has been referring for a long time to the inquiry that has now submitted its interim report. It was an investigation that would make suggestions for solutions. When you look at what the investigation has actually come up with regarding improvements and opportunities to deposit and withdraw cash, the investigator says that it is good as it is. The study suggests that the groups currently in need of cash will be fewer and that technological developments with enhanced IT infrastructure will reduce the need for cash in rural areas as well. However, it seems that the investigator has quite apart from the actual problems that exist today when associations are forced to travel miles by mile with their cash, and when older people are forced to sit on the bus with the bingo fund in the bag and take many miles to get to a bank that receives their money at all or when, after a long working day, entrepreneurs are forced to get in the car and travel many miles to get rid of their daily cash. At my home there are entrepreneurs who actually get to go 200 miles a day to get rid of their day's money. Of course, there are also many elderly and disabled people who have enormous problems. This also applies to over-indebted people, because they do not have access to cards. The investigation even writes the following: It is the opinion of the investigation that just an unwillingness to use other than cash is not a strong enough interest in legislating on measures that promote cash use. It is, among other things, this and the lack of proposals for measures that have led me to put these questions to Minister Bolund. I have asked the Government whether he is prepared to come up with a new proposal to address the problems surrounding the increasingly missed cash handling. If he answers yes, I wonder what these measures look like. I guess I'll have to thank you for the answer, even if I had hoped for more than that. Since it was a rather high tone for a while also from the government that this had to be addressed, I also expected from the government that one could at least say: Yes, we need to do more in view of what it actually looks like today. This is a development that has been going on for several years. It started in 2011 and has escalated in recent years. This debate must show whether this political will exists, more than simply referring to an investigation which has now been referred to. It's an investigation that says it's good the way it is. Does the government think so, too, with this consultation round?
i-66875c1589cc6559-162	Mr President, I would like to In today's debate, I would like answers from Minister Bolund whether he is satisfied with the proposal of the Payment Service Investigation and whether he intends to do something to facilitate access to payment services such as depositing and withdrawing cash. I would like to thank the Government for its answer. The situation is serious in Sweden today. A bank is no longer what we learned to call a bank. They used to talk about the new cashless offices. But now you have to turn over the steak and talk about the few offices that actually have the cash left. The county administrative boards write in their annual report: According to the Riksdag, everyone in society must have access to basic payment services at reasonable prices. We believe that there are still many in society who feel that they have problems managing their payment services safely and at reasonable cost. We see that these problems affect the development of associations, the growth of entrepreneurs in rural areas and in the archipelago and the everyday life of the individual. Somewhere between one and a half million people are affected by problems with payment services and would benefit from easier access to basic payment services. According to county administrative boards, those who have the most problems with payment services are associations, disabled, elderly, newly arrived and entrepreneurs in the countryside and in the archipelago. According to the Riksbank, more than 20 per cent of all payments are still made with cash, 87 per cent of all Swedes use cash every month and 20 per cent of all Swedes do not use internet banking. The fact that it is difficult to reach basic payment services is not surprising when you see what the reality looks like. The number of ATMs has decreased by nearly 500 since 2011. The number of bank accounts handling cash has fallen sharply since 2011, from 1 415 to 694 today. In addition, 154 bank accounts have been closed. The Handelsbanken was for a long time the brilliant star who had chosen to keep the cash handling. But in mid-October, Handelsbanken also announced that they end up with cash at 95 offices around the country. This meant that the last point of withdrawal for cash ended in eleven locations. In addition, a further 16 branches of other banks have given up cash during the year. Under the EU Payment Services Directive, all consumers legally resident in the European Union should be given access to payment accounts with basic features. Nevertheless, the Swedish report on the implementation of the Directive does not point to the need for any new legislative measures to be taken. As a result of technological development and broadband expansion, the problems will be solved in Sweden, the investigation claims. That is a frightening position. The question is whether you have even read the county boards' annual report. When each bank decides for itself which payment services they wish to offer, the State is not in a position to intervene when the range of payment services is further reduced or completely lost. This is a development that we are now actually seeing taking place in Sweden's rural areas. It may be considered unsatisfactory that Finansinspektionen receives daily calls from small businesses that do not have access to payment services. There should be a need to review whether associations and companies should not have the same rights as consumers to payment accounts and payment services. I think it should be positive from a societal point of view that as many players as possible have access to payment services via a bank. At the same time, the banks are making billions of profits. The four major banks together earned SEK 106 billion last year. Of them, they distributed nearly SEK 60 billion to their shareholders. The payment service inquiry considered that legislative measures were disproportionate to the need. But I wonder: What obstacles to getting cash are proportional to the bank's billion-dollar profits for you, Minister Bolund?
i-66875c1589cc6559-176	Mr President, I would like to I thank both interpellants for highlighting this very important issue. I think these are issues worth debating. These are issues that the government is constantly looking at. The Government's goal is for people to be able to decide for themselves how they want to manage their personal finances. If they feel insecure with electronic solutions, they should be able to manage their finances using cash. At the same time, we see that the use of cash is continuously decreasing in Sweden. In this debate, I think it is also important to see that there are values that are achieved by us using cash to a lesser extent. For example, it reduces the possibility of financial crime and undeclared work in some sectors. It also reduces the risk of crime. We have seen examples of this when it comes to protecting workers who are sometimes in a vulnerable situation. For example, public transport here in Stockholm can no longer be paid with cash on the buses, precisely to protect bus drivers and increase safety. Of course it creates challenges in society. I'm the first to admit that. I thought it was bumpy when you couldn't pay with cash on the bus here in Stockholm. But as society evolves, it also finds ways to deal with it. I think most people have become accustomed now to not being able to pay with coins on the bus but to find other ways to pay for their tickets. But I also see, like the interpellants, major challenges and that we need to face the difficulties created in the transition towards declining cash in society. That is why we have systems in place to try to fill in where the market itself is unable to provide adequate payment services. For example, the county boards, as the interpellants also say, have been given the responsibility to analyse the situation and, when you think it is necessary, to take action. The County Administrative Board in Dalarna has a special responsibility to coordinate the information and to issue an annual report to the Government, which is also public so that you can take note of the conclusions. It provides us with a better basis for seeing what development is like and if further action is needed. We have also allocated funds to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, which the county administrative boards should be able to use to enter and take further action. It is clear that the government examines and sees if more funds are needed. We have filled in funds to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, SEK 5 million from 2016, precisely to be able to take further action. But we are prepared to provide money, if necessary. This has led to some solutions. We have payment agents in 17 different locations in 8 different counties where you can both pay bills and deposit day funds, which is also highlighted by the interpellants. We also have an innovation procurement that will start this summer. It will seek to develop new ways that are easier for those groups that are not currently able to use electronic money to create the channels that are needed for everyone to pay and manage their finances. I hope that during this and next year innovation procurement will come up with concrete solutions that many more will be able to use. We work widely with many different measures. For example, we have had meetings with the banks on the situation of asylum seekers, which are also highlighted by the interpellants, where it is above all identity check when applying to open an account that has been the problem. There we think we have a solution in the pipeline, and we are working with the industry. I have also called the industry to round table discussions to discuss the issue of cash management to see how we can take joint responsibility for moving forward and developing solutions. We are also on our way to many more deposit machines. These are some sixty places within two years where cash will be able to be deposited. It is also part of the solution. I think we need to work on many different measures to remedy this situation. But the government is closely following developments.
i-66875c1589cc6559-187	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. As I said in my first speech, the Left Party has been pushing this issue for a long time and also chasing the bourgeois government. As a result, then, the then Prime Minister Norman invited the banks to round table discussions with pensioners' organisations and disability organisations. The County Administrative Board of Dalarna was commissioned to carry out annual surveys, and the county administrative boards were commissioned to find solutions in rural areas together with the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. These are the efforts to which the Government now refers. The 5 million that the county boards received in order to provide greater assistance, among other things, to rural farmers, was something that the Left Party ran in the budget negotiations and that we are of course pleased that we got through. But that does not solve the problem, because we can look at what happened only last year. More banks stopped using cash in 2015 than in the previous year. The development is going in the wrong direction in quite a few counties. For the disabled, it has become worse in five counties, for the elderly in four counties, and for associations active it is a major problem at all. They have suffered worse in six counties, as well as small businesses. And one in five small businesses has shown that they are facing major problems, perhaps even so great that they will have to close down if this development of cash management continues. Prior to the elections, the Social Democrats supported the Left Party's demand to impose legislation on banks to maintain cash management. I therefore expected, when there was a Social Democratic-led government, that something would actually happen. I am therefore a little disappointed when it is only referred to an investigation, an investigation that now says that everything is fine as it is and even says that it is the individual's own fault if the individual does not want to use payment cards. If you're going to analyse it, you can say that the investigator believes that the banks have the right to decide over your and my money and how to access it. I think it is a major democracy issue that it is individual banking institutions, especially the big banks, that decide whether we should have access to cash in Sweden in 2016. That should not be the case. They obviously look at what they need and make some kind of assessment based on this. But we have a social responsibility. Although the county administrative board now has a responsibility to look at the situation in the countryside, it is rather slow to work. Sure, there's a technological development. Technology does not always work in rural areas. I was the other week in Los, one of the worst affected towns. There you will finally get a pay machine, where the day cashier will go in so that customers can withdraw money. It's just that it's the country store itself that has to make sure it gets money into the pay machine. Therefore, they still get to order cash from any bank quite far away and have to pay a lot of fees for it and then make sure to refill the machine. If customers pay by card but want to withdraw cash, there will be a problem in the system. It is not only in rural areas that this is a problem. In Gävle, for example, not many banks still have cash handling. I think it's just one, in Skutskär zero and so on. This problem is also found around Stockholm, in suburbs. This is actually a problem. We have not made a political decision to wind up cash management. Therefore, banks should not be allowed to take that decision either. Isn't that right, Minister?
i-66875c1589cc6559-194	Mr President, I would like to Although the Government has invited to round table discussions, I can say that Minister Bolund's answer is very thin. In the past, Minister Bolund has been pressured on the issue of requirements for banks to provide and receive contacts. The Committee on Finance held a hearing on the matter. And the Government was about to get an announcement against itself in the Finance Committee that the government would have to do something about the situation, but unfortunately the Swedish Democrats protected the government that time. In order to escape the question, the Government chose to put the question in the investigation that we are now debating – an investigation that has given its answer that nothing needs to be done. Today, instead, the Government chooses to hide behind a consultation round that is under way. The question is when will the Government take the situation seriously? When should it be a problem that more than every other bank in Sweden does not receive or provide cash? The Riksbank's expert writes in his special opinion in the inquiry: The existence of alternatives to cash is a small consolation for those who for some reason do not have access to or do not have the ability to use digital payment services. If the settlement of cash services does not go in line with the availability and use of digital payment services, some groups risk not being able to pay and charge. A challenge for society is therefore to establish a sufficient level of cash services to ensure that payments can be made in situations where other appropriate alternatives do not exist. With my interpellation, I would also like to hear from the Government what he intends to do to make it easier for companies and associations that do not have access to payment services. The investigation concludes that the right to payment accounts and payment services shall not apply to companies and associations. I believe that the investigation overestimates the disadvantages to banks vis-à-vis the right of entrepreneurs and associations to obtain an account. The county administrative board's report shows that problems with basic payment services have a negative impact on the development of associations and the growth of entrepreneurs in rural and archipelago areas. There is therefore reason to consider giving associations and companies the same rights as consumers to payment accounts and payment services. For the efficiency of the payment market and from a societal point of view, it should be positive that as many players as possible have access to payment services via a bank. It should also be positive from a money laundering perspective that payments are made via an account. Although money laundering assessments may become more complex for banks via corporate customers than for consumers, the Directive does not prevent banks from charging a fee to cover the costs of this. The Government itself highlighted the issue of financial crime. It is very difficult for us as politicians to determine whether there is less financial crime via cards than through cash. We do not know today how extensive the card fraud suffered by the banks is. We'll never find out. It is therefore difficult to say that this trend leads to a reduction in crime. On the contrary, it may lead to increased crime. However, I agree with the Government that certain types of crime are made more difficult when cash is reduced. That is a perfectly correct conclusion.
i-66875c1589cc6559-205	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we regularly raise this issue in this House, because it is an important issue that needs to be resolved. However, I think we need to problematise the issue a little. Let me first thank Ulla Andersson for saying that this is not just a rural issue. Sometimes, in the debate, it has sounded like it is a matter for rural areas only. But we can leave that chapter behind, for which I am grateful. Otherwise, I usually have to go out to Tensta and talk to the small businesses there. They're really upset about where they're going to make their bags, for example. Moreover, associations exist throughout the country. As I said, there are some problems, and we must also have answers to that. This applies, among other things, to what the trade unions that handle cash say. They are not happy about this. They are not happy that we are having this debate at all. That's my one objection. The second is the money laundering. Today it is complicated to deposit money. I can testify to that myself. As treasurer of the Parliament's art club, I would deposit a large amount of money. I was more or less interrogated for 40 minutes before I had to deposit the money. It is also about IT availability. But, my friends, this is a much bigger issue than just payments. Whatever you encounter, you should go to www something. There is no access to this. It is a problem for many old people and for people who have cognitive problems in one way or another. There are problems with payments. For example, it is a problem that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency (PTS) should be responsible for this only because it once handled Posten and Posten handled cash. But it has been a long time since the Post Office handled cash, so why PTS should have this responsibility I have never understood. It was the same with Svensk Kassaservice. Why would it be below PTS? I had a hard time understanding that. That a county administrative board has been commissioned to map this is great. When the banks are asked to solve this, does it solve the problems? What kind of banks do we have? Do we only have the four major banks plus the savings banks? No, it's not like that. I had a small loan in Danske Bank once. Their head office is basically a crawl away from me, but is it only the people who live in Liljeholmen in Stockholm who should be able to go to their bank? No, maybe it's a little complicated. We have a lot of niche banks. Ica also has a bank that handles some things, so you can withdraw from their accounts. I don't think you problematize enough there. With regard to the various technical solutions, we need to think about what might come in the future. How can you solve this in a smarter way? I agree that the four-digit PIN is not the smartest way to deal with this. Maybe there are other methods and techniques. I can agree that the investigation comes to a strange conclusion. I thought, however, that we were more mature than that in this House. We've never put forward new legislation when something's out for consultation, so you'll have to wait for that, and you'll know that's the case.
i-66875c1589cc6559-218	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Vestlund for an important and good contribution to the debate. Börje also makes a good effort to try to conform to some of the arguments that may not fully conform to the truth. I appreciate that, too. In a previous post we were told that the banks are liquidating cash. It is a reduction in cash management in society and fewer people use cash but talking about a settlement is to drag it well. The Riksbank is about to issue a new series of notes and coins, which is a clear sign that there will be no cash settlement in society and that we will have cash for a long time in Sweden. I share the Riksbank's view that cash is needed in society, and I will continue to think so. I get a little upset when you say the government doesn't do anything about the situation. I have just read out a long list of measures that are being taken to try to improve the situation. You can listen a little bit to what the counter-debater says. I'm also told that I'm hiding behind a consultation session. That statement is not quite consistent with how we view democracy in Sweden. After all, we want proposals from investigations to be submitted to the government so that they can receive the views of all those involved who face the problems in their daily lives and then make an overall assessment. I hope that Parliament, together with the government, will respect this and that we will actually have to wait and obtain knowledge and views from the consultation bodies before taking action. Of course, we will take great account and listen intensively to what the consultation bodies say, because we believe that they will make important contributions. I would also like to adjust a little what the conclusions of the inquiry into the Payment Account Directive are. It is not said in the conclusion that it is a good thing, but that the legislation is not proportionate to the consequences and needs of it. They do not say that everything is peace and joy, but note that there are challenges. We are trying to meet these challenges, for example through innovation. In Sweden we have a very vibrant fintech sector for financial technology. New solutions and methods are constantly being developed here. We are trying to support a development in which new solutions are created for those groups that find it difficult to use e.g. electronic payment methods. It can be an important way to help people cope with their finances. There is also ongoing cooperation between the county boards, the Banking Association and the savings banks. It came about thanks to the round table that I initiated. They have meetings several times a year to monitor the situation and to create better coordination so that banks do not individually take measures that have an impact on individual locations and that there is adequate coverage. Furthermore, Bankomat AB increases the number of ATMs and ATMs, and around sixty locations will have new opportunities. Let me warn against the belief that legislation can solve all the problems. I think it's hard. In Norway there is a law, but the number of minibanks has decreased by 10 percent over the last five years. Clearly, then, legislation does not solve all the problems and is the great alexander. I am a little surprised by the entry of the Left Party, because in the budget we are trying to solve problems of rural service by providing funds. With regard to food security and other services, our view is that society must adopt supportive measures in order for everyone to have access to a good service. Why should it apply to food but not to financial services? We are trying to deal with the situation in the same way here. I'm sure we can do more, and I appreciate the commitment. However, to say that this is a completely different situation and that we should take quite different measures, I do not understand.
i-66875c1589cc6559-231	Mr President, I would like to It was the Left Party that pushed through the 5 million to contribute to improvements in rural areas in cash management. I realise that legislation to oblige banks to maintain cash management is complex. That is precisely why I think it should be investigated so that you can look at what you can actually do. Instead, the government has chosen to put everything into this investigation, which has concluded that nothing needs to be done. There are problems, but you don't have to do anything about them. Legislation shows how society thinks things should work. It is therefore important that the democratic institutions decide how we should deal with cash management. It is part of our infrastructure in the payment system. Then individual banking institutions should not be allowed to decide for themselves. Moreover, the banking institutions we are talking about have the support of the state in their backs, that is to say, we guarantee their losses. Then, I mean, they have a much greater social responsibility than they actually take. Although we have many more banks, it has not solved the problem, but the large population is dependent on the four major banks. That's what it looks like today. Whether you're in Tensta or in Los, that's where we have the basic problems. The banks are winding up the cash handling. Swedbank has gone the longest, but big bank has followed. This creates problems for the elderly, associations, pensioners and disabled people, and we must do something about that. This has been going on since 2011, and it is escalating. We need to see measures here and now, and I was therefore a little disappointed when Bolund's answer was simply that we should wait for the referral. I think he could have expressed a political will to act with more responsibility.
i-66875c1589cc6559-239	Mr President, I would like to Some have rallied over the opening of an ATM in Skoghall with candy rain and several hundred visitors. At the same time, it showed to me the seriousness and the explosive power of this issue. How can it be possible that a municipal capital with 15,000 inhabitants can get rid of its only ATM without the bank even telling us? Then it is clear that you will be happy when the local trader takes up the issue and makes sure that the ATM comes back. In some places, people today have enormous distances to withdraw cash. For those living in Vittangi, Hakkas and Fredrika, the distance to the nearest ATM is more than 50 km one way. In Svappavaara there is a state-owned mine but no ATM – it is 30 km away. In Vidsel, called the rocket village, the military presence is great. There is the Swedish Armed Forces' facility to test rockets and test fly drones, but no ATM has the villagers since last year. Today, there are 117 000 people who have more than 20 miles to withdraw cash. Of these, 36,000 are over 65 years of age. The market does not solve rural challenges. Ensuring a sufficiently good geographical spread of basic payment services should also remain a State responsibility. Unlike today, regulating the responsibility of banks for payment services would mean that it is ultimately the State that decides when the market can and should meet the needs of customers and when it is a government task. Of course, this is not an easy task, but the county administrative board is already assessing when the state should go in with support for various measures. This task should be able to develop into the task that the government should also assess when banks should assume their responsibility for customers so that they can withdraw and deposit cash. I think that a great many people would have liked to hear answers today from the Minister for the Financial Market, and unfortunately I think they are a little disappointed. However, I hope that the Minister for Financial Markets will read all the answers of the referral inquiry and accept that legislation is actually needed.
i-66875c1589cc6559-248	Mr President, I would like to I believe that there are very many disappointed trade union members within the Trade, Hotels and Restaurant Union and the Financial Federation. Many of them vote for the Left Party, which only ignores one of their perhaps most important health and safety issues. Otherwise, the trade union movement is often referred to, but obviously not on this issue. This is solved by an alexander hench in which banks are allowed to deal with this issue. But is the problem solved for the countryside? I saw a report not long ago where it was found that both public and commercial services are declining in rural areas. In particular, it was pointed out that banks are closing down. That it is the banks that are closing down first, we have seen in the suburbs of the big cities as well. I'm very glad you're waiting for the referral. I'm one of those who will answer a sub-referendum. I am not going to write it myself, because I am responsible for these issues, but as President of the Union of the Disability Movement, I am a signatory. I want the government to know what we think before decisions are made, but obviously the Left Party does not. It annoys me a little. We have a system in Sweden where we investigate things and have a consultation session to get in as broad a material as possible, and then we politicians start dealing with it. Why should we not respect it in this particular case, even if the situation is serious? I think there is reason to comment on the issue of ATMs. There is one thing for which the banks have a responsibility, and I think it is terrible when the banks do not take that responsibility.
i-66875c1589cc6559-253	Mr President, I would like to The government believes that this is a challenge for society. We see the problems that many people face in their everyday lives. There is a demand for a clear ambition from the government. I think I gave this in my opening speech, namely that we think that people themselves should be able to decide how they handle their personal finances. If you want to be able to use cash, you should have the opportunity to do so. On the other hand, we do not believe that a single reform will solve all the problems, but we believe that many different solutions will be needed to overcome the challenges that exist. We have not only contributed to the EUR 5 million that I mentioned and which Ulla Andersson also mentioned in her speech. The Government has also contributed SEK 36 million to the 2016 budget for measures for vulnerable and vulnerable rural areas in terms of service, in order to improve it in general. It is not only about payment services but also about basic things such as access to food and basic services to manage their lives. I am asked when one thinks that legislation should solve the problems. Why does the Left Party believe that this particular market is distinctive? Should we then have legislation on the number and location of petrol stations? Should we have legislation on the number of supermarkets and where in the country they are? Food is an even more basic prerequisite for being able to cope with their lives than the use of cash. I believe that we can resolve these issues by working together, by putting pressure on the government, as we do, and by coming up with many different solutions. I also believe that consumers in general can make a contribution here. If you have a choice between different banks, you can choose the bank that offers the best service in cash and clearly communicate to your bank that it is something you value and want the bank to contribute.
i-66875c1589cc6559-259	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me if I make the assessment that doctors should take greater responsibility in the sick leave process. If so, what initiatives will I take to make this a reality? It is worrying that sick leave has risen by about 75 percent since 2010. Breaking this trend and stabilising absenteeism is one of the government's top priorities. This requires action on a broad front and from a number of different actors to address the problem. I believe that healthcare, and not least the doctor, is an important player and has a very important role to play in the process of sick leave. In autumn 2015, the Government presented an action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave. In it, the government has identified seven areas where efforts need to be made during the term of office and where the Social Insurance Agency, employers and health care are the most important. In the area of health care, the Government is therefore planning a number of measures, such as developing knowledge support for primary care in terms of care and treatment of diseases that lead to a high degree of absence. The Government will also take steps to increase knowledge of sick leave practices and the process of sick leave. Furthermore, the Government plans to commission the relevant authorities to develop outcome measures in the healthcare sector for the return of sick leave to work in order to increase knowledge of the extent to which the care efforts lead to the termination of sick leave. In the Government's agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on measures for an effective sick leave process, we invest SEK 1.5 billion to stimulate better sick leave and rehabilitation within the healthcare sector. The agreement consists of several actions in priority areas such as an equal process of sick leave, training in insurance medicine for doctors and other relevant occupational groups, rehabilitation coordinators for early collaboration, incentives for improving interventions in cases of mild and moderate mental illness and long-term pain, and support for increased electronic exchange of information between healthcare and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. The purpose of the various measures is to facilitate, in various ways, the work of the health care services themselves in the event of sick leave but also to cooperate with other actors in the sick leave process in order to prevent or shorten sick leave and to promote the return of patients to work.
i-66875c1589cc6559-266	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I broadly share the Minister's view that cooperation is primarily extremely important in order to reduce the high rates of sick leave. The reason for my interpellation is a debate article in Ulricehamn's newspaper about the increasing sick leave and the importance of collaboration in order to reach the government's goal of a sickness benefit rate of nine days. The article is signed by, among other things, the Director of Health Insurance at Försäkringskassan. My main concern in the article is about the role of doctors in the process of sick leave. The new report from ESO also shows this; they have some thoughts and thoughts about it and how to change the process. I quote from the debate article: a government target of nine days' sickness benefit by 2020 therefore requires employers and doctors to step forward in a completely different way from today and society's attitude to sick leave is fundamentally changing. So it is Försäkringskassan who writes. We also want to ensure that the right person receives the right compensation already in the first decision on sickness benefit. This will shorten sick leave, but Försäkringskassan's efforts are not enough. The attitude of employers, doctors and society toward sick leave is at least as important in order to reduce sick leave. ..................................................... It goes on to say that the medical profession requires a common understanding of when sick leave is an appropriate treatment – but perhaps above all when it is not. It would be interesting to hear how the Minister views this. It says in the article that doctors should take a stand in their certificates not only on the patient's illness but also on its consequences. It is then Försäkringskassan that assesses the ability to work. Our mission is not to test how sick someone is – we assess the possibility of working. Of course, it is the insurance director of health insurance who is the main player in the debate article. I think the debate article is very interesting. I know that Försäkringskassan works with – twisting and turning – this in order to get to grips with its part regarding the increasing sickness rates. The individual's ability to return to work must be the focus not only of the individual, but also of the employer, health care and the Social Insurance Agency. Everyone has to work together. This means that the work line must also be included on this issue. It is a great human loss if sick people are knocked out of work even though they want nothing more than to work. If we focus on and start from those who want nothing more than to work, we must also find solutions to how to do this in a good way. In the social security inquiry, there is evidence from various recent research, including the success factors that mainly affect return to work. It should be a work-focused healthcare and a responsible and committed employer who also cooperates with healthcare. Long-term sick people are best helped by early return to work, even before full work capacity is restored. Today you can only get sick leave on fixed levels; it is 25, 50, 75 or 100 percent. It can be a very big step for those who have been able to work in just 25% to go up to half-time. It has been discussed for many years whether it would be possible to find a much more flexible return to work through tighter percentages, or what to say – or perhaps completely flexible ones. It would be interesting to hear the Minister's opinion on that.
i-66875c1589cc6559-276	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Finstorp for the interpellation. I am convinced that what we are discussing today is a key issue for sick leave in Sweden and for our view of sick leave. Even during the previous rise in sickness rates, in the early 2000s, Försäkringskassan tried to have such a focus. A major campaign was launched at national level, as many of us remember, that it is precisely people's ability to work that they assess and not how sick they are. It was very much discussed, but I think there is something extremely central in that vision. That is also something we need to pick up in the public debate and try to keep up with time, now that sickness rates are increasing again. The new Director General of Försäkringskassan Ann-Marie Begler describes it as saying that we would need a public education campaign in Sweden about the view of sick leave and sick leave – and the benefits of sick leave and sick leave. This is particularly true of the benefits of sick leave associated with mental illness at times. What we should and should have in focus, of course, is to harness the ability of people. There I think Lotta Finstorp is putting her finger on a possible way forward for us, where we could definitely look further at this with a more stepless return to work. I know that we have rather rigid percentages and that sometimes it can be an obstacle. That is something we are looking at and are prepared to come back with. Return to work is also something that is consistent with the package of measures presented by the government last autumn, not least with regard to the investments we make in health care. At the end of the year, we also made the previous agreement we had with SKL, health care and the government. Among other things, we particularly stress that we want not only some but all county councils, for example, to develop so-called rehabilitation coordinators, which can just be the early link between employers and health care. It is a matter of ensuring that people may both stay in contact with their workplace and return as soon as possible if they are on full-time sick leave. There are many studies that point in a direction that speaks of sick leave as a treatment method. That is how we need to start talking about sick leave: as a treatment method among other treatments. Sick leave as a treatment method may not really be the most suitable for mild or moderate mental illness, which is one of the most important reasons for sick leave today. We know that it is extremely important for people to be able to return to health and to the labour market again that they remain in contact with their workplace. It may even be about continuing to work to some extent, or coming back as early as possible. We must dare to talk about this more.
i-66875c1589cc6559-283	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good debate on this major and difficult subject, Minister. In fact, it is one third of the state budget we are talking about, and of course very human suffering. Rehab coordinators I absolutely believe in. In Södermanland we had a Finsam project that is now permanent at the county council. It was called the Rehab skeleton. It is a rather unpleasant name, but it was very good and successful – incredibly good. I believe that Finsam can be an important player in this work for those who are long-term sick and may not have an employer who becomes the fourth partner in the dialogue. I am very pleased that the Minister is taking up the view and benefits of sick leave. We need to talk about the interesting thing about sick leave as treatment. I think that is often where you end up, and there is a large part of this in the sick leave numbers we see. It's about the attitude towards sick leave. We can also look at the large regional differences in sick leave, which cannot be explained by poor health. It can be seen that some counties have significantly higher sickness rates than large cities in particular. City and country make a big difference. This would need to be further investigated and analysed clearly. Collaboration is extremely important. Let us look at the actors: the patient, the employer, the Social Insurance Agency and the health care system. One of the actors, the health service, is not currently responsible for caring for and treating for return to work. I think you have to look at that. If all four are now to work together and move in the same direction to return to work whenever possible, work-focused healthcare must be brought into health care legislation. I looked at the portal clause in the Health Act and really thought about this with a return to work. As the first paragraph states: "Health care" in this Act means medical prevention, investigation and treatment of diseases and injuries. There is nothing about caring for and treating for people to come back to the life they had before. The second paragraph states that the person most in need of healthcare should be given priority to care. If we think of blue lights, for example, the one who has the most difficult problem should come first. If you get this back to work, what's the triage supposed to be like? Today, everyone is working on triage within health care. You prioritize and sort based on needs, pain, diagnosis and so on. How does the Minister view this? If it is desirable to get back to work – how can you get it into the legislation without saying that the person who has a backache should go before the one who comes in with a heart attack? That's never gonna happen, but still. This is a very interesting problem. I know that there is such a proposal in the social security inquiry. There is a lot of criticism from the medical profession and health care for this, and it is clear that if you put it at its head, it will be absurd. I still think it is extremely important to get this in some way. Care and treatment should strive to get back to work or study.
i-66875c1589cc6559-293	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp! You put your finger on several important things in what you bring up here. Let me start with the regional differences. That is something we have seen for a long time. In addition, we see that as soon as sickness rates increase, regional disparities also increase. That's exactly what we're seeing now. In the package of measures that we launched last autumn, there are some that are about us taking the initiative to analyse sick leave practices and sick leave patterns that aim at this very point. We are now doing this work. Without slicing anything in stone, there are various ways to strengthen it so that a more even assessment of similar diagnoses can be made across the country. One is what is already in the action programme. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare now has a mandate from the programme of measures to monitor, update and evaluate the decision support for insurance medicine. We expect that the part dealing with mental illness will come as early as this autumn. It is a tool for strengthening assessments – that they are made more similar. If this were not enough, there would be a discussion earlier on the possibility of introducing so-called prescription codes for doctors. We're not there yet, but I think it's a little exciting. Thus, medical certificates could clearly identify the doctors who have prescribed sick leave so that they can even follow the pattern of sick leave of a particular doctor or health care centre. We see, as the ESO report also points out, that in exceptional cases, unfortunately, variants appear where individuals, if they receive a no to sick leave in one place, go to another health centre in order to get a different assessment and a sick leave. Of course, this is something that we all want to curb, and prescription codes could be a way of getting a better picture of it. But it's something I'll have to come back to. I share the picture of those who do not have an employer and who are on long-term sick leave. The government is now shooting at 59 million annually to strengthen Finsam. Among other things, it is a matter of focusing on the long-term sick. We will follow up on the work and we are also prepared to take further action. I have a strong belief that Finsam can be a good tool. When it comes to returning to work as part of health care, I share the view that it is important to continue to take steps in this direction. In the incentives that we have now negotiated with the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting, this is clearly included. It even states that in order for these sick leave funds to be used, sick leave should be part of health care and treatment, and health care efforts should promote the patient's return to work. It is a step in one direction. I think Lotta Finstorp knows how sensitive the issue of entering into legislation is. It is very much a cultural issue that we will have to continue to work on. We're not really there yet, but I basically share the vision of what you're saying linked to this.
i-66875c1589cc6559-301	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I feel that the government is changing its attitude towards this. We were often told when the Alliance government tried to screw social security systems that we were hard and cold. Well, be that as it may, this is exactly what we had to try to get to. Attitudes, which are very much involved in this, do not change one or two terms of office. It is about the attitudes of the population and of various actors on these issues. 59 million extra to Finsam is great. But there will be more covenants, so there won't be much more money. The ESO report is interesting. There's a lot of this. The doctor should diagnose, even though many diseases lack distinct diagnostic criteria. However, the doctor should also assess the work capacity of the patient linked to tasks. It requires very specific knowledge of different parts of the working life. It is almost superhuman to know this. ESO proposes that Försäkringskassan should be able to set quality requirements for health care providers who issue health certificates. That was a bit of what the Minister was talking about; it could, for example, be prescription codes. ESO's proposal is that certain specific doctors should issue health certificates. They must have a special competence in social security and the system and also in the labour market. Many people on sick leave say they don't understand the system. It's not transparent. The doctor writes a medical certificate stating that you should be on sick leave to 100 percent. The Social Insurance Agency makes a completely different assessment. This transparency needs to be worked on much more so that it becomes clearer for the individual.
i-66875c1589cc6559-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp! I usually try to describe it this way: if you, in essence, have the ambition that you had for the long time that you have put in the parliamentary social security inquiry to really try to resolve the issue of sick leave, it is complex. There are several different parts to this. I think that somewhere this is what you have to look at in what we are doing now. Basically, it is about those individuals, citizens etc. who really need sick leave because of their diagnosis having it, of course. Then you should know that the insurance is there, that it is safe and that you can get the support and help you need. But then sick leave should also be assessed as the right treatment method for that diagnosis. Right now we have a situation in Sweden where we can see that the most common reason for sick leave is mild to moderate mental illness. Two out of three victims are women. Many are relatively young and have young children at home and the whole working life ahead of them. There are studies that clearly point to the fact that long-term full-time sickness is directly counterproductive for that diagnosis. Then this should not be a fundamental party political discussion. Instead, we will discuss how we can support and ensure that the instruments we have at our disposal and our authorities can best support these many times relatively young women back to health and working life and the labour market again, so that they do not get caught up in one or the other. It will also help us to achieve a low and stable absence from work.
