i-5c4148c72c223ac9-0	Before we start the debate, I would like to welcome the representatives of the diplomatic corps to the foreign policy debate.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-1	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the diplomatic corps, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden's foreign policy in this time of both hope and despair should be active, fearless and constructive. With a view to broad collaboration and diplomacy, we will acknowledge and build on the new historical advances in international cooperation, such as the climate agreement and the sustainability goals of Agenda 2030. But we also need to tackle the challenges at a time when aggression and division characterize the world. The war in Syria has been going on for five years. Over 125 million people worldwide urgently need humanitarian aid because of war, hunger and poverty. If they were a country together, it would be the 11th largest in the world. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden's security policy line is solid. Our military freedom of alliance serves us well and contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. It requires an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with credible national defence capabilities. Threats to peace and our security are best avoided in community and cooperation with other countries and organisations. Sweden's foreign and security policy is based on cohesion in the EU and on increased cooperation on a broad front: in the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region, together with Finland, in the UN and in the OSSE, with NATO and through a strengthened transatlantic link. Dialogue and confidence building are important instruments for stability and relaxation. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or an attack strikes another EU country or a Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Our country should therefore be able to provide and receive support both civilian and military. The defence policy agreement reached last year is very important. It shows the broad political support for the need to strengthen our national defence capabilities. The fate of our time – the climate – poses a global security threat. Climate change is driving wars, conflicts and poverty. Sweden will vigorously take on the tasks of the global climate agreement, with a view to keeping the global temperature increase well below two degrees and striving to limit it to one and a half degrees. We are adapting the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to a broader view of security. Terrorism, climate, migration, pandemics and trafficking in human beings pose challenges for foreign and security policy. Migration issues in particular will require a lot of work in the long as well as in the short term. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs is strengthening work on European security, as well as work on the UN and global issues. We also strengthen our foreign organisation. We're opening a Consulate General in New York and embassies on three continents. The government is working on a national security strategy. The situation in the world calls for a feminist foreign policy. It aims to strengthen women's rights, representation and access to resources. In 2015, Sweden has contributed to the EU's establishment of a high-level adviser for gender equality and to the creation of a women's mediator network. We continue to work according to our action plan to involve women in peace processes. By involving women in the peace talks in Syria, we can contribute to a more sustainable society. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. This year, a new global approach to EU foreign policy is being developed. Sweden was the initiator of the strategy and strongly engages in the work. An important element is the development of the EU's external crisis management capabilities. The government continues its support for peace, democracy and economic development in Europe's neighbourhood. The European security regime must be safeguarded. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and military presence in eastern Ukraine constitute flagrant violations of international law. This is the greatest challenge to the European security regime since the end of the Cold War. The sanctions against Russia must remain in place until the Minsk agreement is fulfilled. Ukraine shall be able to re-control its internationally recognised borders. It is important to contribute to a strong, democratic and stable Ukraine. Sweden supports bilaterally and through the EU the Ukrainian government's reform efforts. Good cooperation within the European Union is a prerequisite for peace and prosperity. We need a stronger Europe that can continue to stand up for fundamental common values and principles, not least in the European neighbourhood. Internal fragmentation must be countered. It is vital that Britain stays in the Union. The agreement between the EU Heads of State or Government provides the conditions for this. The government is working for a social Europe where growth, high living standards and good working conditions are mutually reinforcing. The EU needs a new migration regime, based on joint and several responsibility and international commitments, which safeguard the right to asylum. It is possible if all 28 Member States assume their responsibilities and cooperation is improved. With 60 million people on the run, we cannot have a situation where some countries buy blankets while others invest in barbed wire. Our European policy and foreign policy play an important role in solving these difficult issues. Sweden will continue to stand up for peace and freedom in Europe, as we did after the terrorist attacks in Paris last autumn. We were among the first to respond to France's request for assistance, and the Swedish support is among the larger ones. Sweden's contribution has been welcomed by France. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The government welcomes the UN's efforts to reach a settlement on the Cyprus issue. A solution would strengthen the UN's authority and the EU's ability to address the challenges in the immediate region. Sweden has taken a unique initiative for cooperation between the religious leaders of Cyprus, because they play an important role in the reconciliation process. Sweden is a driving force for the EU's Eastern Partnership. A strong neighbourhood and enlargement policy remains one of the EU's most strategic tools for promoting peace and prosperity. Keeping the door open for EU membership promotes important reform processes, for example in the Western Balkans and Turkey. The development of violence and the human rights situation in Turkey are very worrying. The fighting between the Turkish Government and the PKK has intensified. Civilians, not least Kurds, are severely affected by violence and curfew. The escalation of violence prevents peace and development not only in Turkey but throughout the region. Sweden conducts a dialogue with both the government and opposition in the country. It is important that Turkey and the EU can demonstrate concrete progress in the implementation of the Joint Action Plan on Migration. The unimaginable human suffering in Syria is a disaster and a serious threat to the security of the whole region. Half the Syrian population is on the run in or outside the country. The bombing of the opposition by the Asad regime, as well as by Russia, is unacceptable and threatens the fragile peace process. They must stop. All parties must now accept the ceasefire agreement that has been concluded. Through the new Swedish strategy for the Syria crisis, which covers SEK 1.7 billion, we are working to ensure that people in Syria and its neighbours are able to support themselves and receive education. We are also increasing our humanitarian aid to the country. We are part of the core group in the coalition against Daish and contribute with a Swedish armed force for the training of defence forces in Iraq, mainly Kurdish peshmerga forces. Within the EU, Sweden is working for a long-term stabilisation effort in Iraq. We support the country's reconstruction, including by providing aid to the areas that have been freed from Daish. Fear and desperation are spreading in the Middle East. We must give young people both in Israel and in Palestine hope for the future. Sweden's recognition of Palestine aims to create momentum for the two-state solution. Renewed international efforts are needed. Sweden welcomes the French initiative for an international peace conference. The goal is for both Israel and Palestine to be able to live in peace and security within mutually agreed borders. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In North Africa, the government is giving increased support to the UN process on Western Sahara. The aim is to find a just and mutually accepted solution to the conflict that will satisfy the right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination. Sweden will continue to support and pay attention to the democratic forces in the region. We will open an embassy in Tunisia in June. Sweden's ties to the countries of Africa are historically strong. They are now being further strengthened, and we are working together on economics, education and culture. Cooperation between Swedish industry and the growing economies on the continent is increasing. The African Union is taking increasing responsibility for peace and security. Sweden supports this development both politically and financially. The focus of the Swedish commitment to security and development is on the Horn of Africa, Liberia, Mali and the Great Sea Region. The Swedish contribution to the UN operation in Mali is appreciated. The continued strong and dynamic economic development in Asia offers great opportunities. The government deepens cooperation with India, the world's largest democracy. We're opening an embassy in the Philippines. Contacts between China and Sweden are increasing. China's role is growing internationally. This also brings with it responsibilities. The government continues the frank dialogue with China on human rights. Sweden retains its civil and military engagement in Afghanistan. The government also strengthens cooperation with Afghanistan on migration-related issues. The USA is an important partner of Sweden, and we develop and deepen our already broad cooperation with the country. We offer comprehensive support to developing countries to adapt to a more extreme climate and sustainable technologies. We are strengthening relations with the Caribbean nations, which, like other small island states, are particularly vulnerable to climate change. During the year, the government will adopt a regional aid strategy for Asia, including the Pacific countries, with a particular focus on climate change. In addition to the strategic partnership with Brazil, relations with a number of Latin American countries such as Chile, Colombia and Peru are deepened. In Peru, an embassy is now being opened. An action plan for our work with Latin America is under preparation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden's many years of experience of peace, equality and international solidarity have created a curiosity about our country and what we stand for. The Swedish model attracts interest worldwide. A strong Sweden image, where culture and values are held forward, is important for our long-term relations with other countries. The promotion of exports, imports and investments in Sweden, in close cooperation with companies, forms an integral part of foreign policy as well as responsibility for the entire government. The Government's export strategy contributes to strengthening Swedish companies' opportunities on the international market and to increasing the number of exporting companies. This contributes to Swedish jobs. Two thirds of Sweden's foreign trade goes to other countries in the EU. That is why a well-functioning internal market in the EU is of paramount importance. Sweden's economic exchange with the outside world and long free trade tradition have contributed to our welfare. Free trade between countries lays the foundation for peace and democracy in the long term. That is why we are opposed to protectionist tendencies in the EU and other G20 countries, especially those affecting developing countries. Sweden is working to reach a political conclusion this year on the TTIP free trade agreement between the EU and the US. An agreement is of great importance for growth and jobs and strengthens the transatlantic link. The agreement should be concluded with respect for people and the environment. Sweden will become a pioneer country for free and fair trade. Sustainable entrepreneurship is part of this. At a difficult time, as one of the few countries in the world, we have managed to maintain generous and high-quality aid. The 1% target is achieved and remains fixed. During the year, the government returns to the Riksdag with a new policy framework for Swedish development cooperation. Our development cooperation is an expression of Sweden's conviction that we must share the world's prosperity. In the run-up to the World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul in May, we are working towards a stronger humanitarian system, with a particular focus on women's rights and influence. I am part of Ban Ki Moon's humanitarian finance panel, which has put forward innovative proposals on how to meet the world's humanitarian needs. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. At a time of global threats, global cooperation is needed. World leaders agreed last year on Agenda 2030 on global development goals and a new climate agreement. The UN is navigating in a very difficult terrain, but progress is being made. The UN is the world's most important platform for international peace and security. Sweden is an active UN member and a critical friend. Our commitment makes a difference and is in demand. Sweden is pushing for a stronger link between development and peace, an increased focus on conflict prevention and a strengthened role for women in peace processes. The government is also investing in mediation in the long term. It is on this basis that Sweden is now running for the Security Council. We provide knowledge, not least of the surrounding area. The Security Council must take an even greater responsibility for peace and security. We want to safeguard international law and limit the use of vetoes. The Council needs to be reformed and better reflect the world of today. We are concerned to see the maintenance of the world's existing nuclear arsenals and the development of new weapons. The DPRK's nuclear explosion earlier this year underlines the need for work on international disarmament and non-proliferation. On the other hand, the nuclear agreement with Iran shows that progress can be made in the field of non-proliferation. Sweden works in the UN, within the international organisation for test-stop agreements and other multilateral collaborations such as the humanitarian initiative. Among other things, the government has been involved in the work before the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington this spring on reinforced work against nuclear terrorism. The government appoints a special ambassador for the work on international disarmament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Respect for international law is fundamental. The UN Charter consolidates the principle of territorial integrity. Genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and other serious abuses and violations must be prevented and punished. Journalists have been targeted in the world's armed conflicts. Last year, over 100 journalists were killed, and too many are in prison. We support imprisoned journalists and human rights activists and work for free media and strong civil societies this year when the Swedish Freedom of the Press Regulation turns 250. Working conditions are today a European and global issue. Global Deal is the Prime Minister's international initiative in collaboration with, among others, the ILO and the OECD for improved dialogue between employers and employees in order to create better jobs, more equality and increased productivity. Protecting every person's right to protection against discrimination is our shared responsibility. This includes anti-racism and anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, aphrophobia and anti-Ziganism. Sweden is a global voice for sexual and reproductive health and rights and for every person's rights regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. Human rights, democracy and the principles of the rule of law are fundamental, and the government therefore submits a letter to Parliament on this matter and appoints a special ambassador for human rights. Support for Swedes in emergency and crisis situations abroad is always a priority activity in the foreign administration. We work with consular matters around the clock, every day of the year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The United Nations Charter states that it is us – the people of the united nations are going to save the future generations from the scourge of war. This means that responsibility is ours – we are the Swedish Government, the diplomat in the gallery, the Member of Parliament who is preparing his speech, yes, even you who listen to the radio. It is also us – the peoples of the united nations are the ones who are to testify to our belief in fundamental human rights. We're running out of time. But the global progress that is taking place in parallel with the scourge of war is reminiscent of the power created by joint efforts. The government will continue to shoulder its responsibilities in maintaining international peace and security – in political agreement and with popular support.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-56	Mr President, I would like to In the Foreign Affairs Declaration, the Foreign Minister describes in detail how our security is based on cooperation and collaboration – cooperation and collaboration with other countries and other organisations. The Foreign Minister also describes a world that is more troubled than for a very long time and characterised by crises and conflicts in our neighbourhood too. Such a new world situation requires leadership and innovation. We are looking forward to proposals on, among other things, the host country aid agreement. We know that there is a security policy investigation going on that will be presented after the summer. We know that there is an intense debate on security policy. Therefore, I had hoped that the government in the foreign declaration would give some indication or signal about reconsidering the compact resistance to even trying and discussing what a Swedish NATO membership could mean. I wonder – I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs this before, and I will ask it again – what is it that makes it receive it so. What makes it so difficult to discuss? It is open to cooperation and cooperation, the most recent example being the forthcoming agreement on host country support. So, Minister for Foreign Affairs, what is it that makes the government not even want to open the door to the larger discussion about what that would mean for Sweden? We from the Moderates see this as something that would increase Sweden's security. It is better to rely on defence guarantees than on hopes. I would therefore like the Foreign Minister to explain this.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-60	Mr President, I would like to Dear Karin Enström, unfortunately this was predictable. This is the case: if you have only one tool, namely a hammer, all the problems will look like a nail. The answer on the part of the Moderates is always NATO. We believe that security policy should be handled responsibly and with broad parliamentary support. That is why it was a clear signal to the outside world when five parliamentary parties, government and opposition, agreed last spring on defence and security policy. We agreed on a review of the orientation bill. After a month, the Moderates went out and advocated NATO membership. We agreed to review all our cooperation, and we appointed an investigator who would do just that to allow a proper basis and allow a debate. We are also having an active debate. It took a month, and then the Moderates had gone out in favour of NATO membership. I believe that an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy is our main line of defence. It is based on the cohesion of the EU, and it is based on cooperation on a broad front in the Nordic region, around the Baltic Sea, in the UN and in the OSSE, with NATO and through the transatlantic link. Now the tension has increased in our neighbourhood, and we are living in a very troubled time. Then it is important that security policy does not falter and that we do not suddenly send new messages about where we are going. Let's stick together, I think. I wish I could see it from the Moderates too.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-63	Mr President, I would like to Well, then I guess I'll have to send the ball back and say that the Foreign Minister's answer was also predictable. The fact that we have talked about this in the past does not mean that it is not worth discussing. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, these are very serious issues. It is about how we can best safeguard our independence, our sovereignty and that our part of the world is secure and can cope with the great, difficult challenges we will be discussing throughout this day. There are, of course, very many aspects of security, but it cannot be ignored that NATO is the key player for security and stability in our part of the world. That is why I am still calling for concrete arguments in favour of not even being willing and daring to open up the debate. The answer will be: No, we'd rather not talk about this, because we have to stick together. That is where the Minister for Foreign Affairs owes the answer.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-65	Mr President, I would like to It is good if my answer is predictable, I say. We should not be swaying in security and foreign policy. We're gonna keep a line that's clear. We're going to strengthen our defenses, and we're going to hold on to our military alliance freedom. Above all, we shall build on cooperation. That is why we commissioned an investigator to review how the collaborations look and work, what we can strengthen and what we can do better. I would, of course, like the Moderates to join in this. Would it not be better for our country, in this uncertain time, if we were to come together in foreign and security policy instead? We have the debate all the time. After all, we constantly meet in discussions about NATO. That is good and right, but our policy must signal unity and a firm line. That is what creates stability and relaxation in the area. That would not be the signal of NATO membership.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-67	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats look with great concern at the escalating knife intifada in Israel. Around 25 Israelis, an American student and a Palestinians have so far been victims of the knife terrorism. On the other side, around a hundred Palestinian perpetrators have been killed. On January 17, a mother of six was stabbed outside her own home, and the next day a pregnant woman was injured in another attack. The suspected perpetrator, a 15-year-old Palestinians, told us in interrogation that the inspiration for the attack came from Palestinian television, which is completely controlled by the Palestinian Authority. I would therefore like to ask how the Minister for Foreign Affairs can actively work to ensure that Swedish aid money is used to finance the Palestinian Authority – the same authority whose propaganda machine causes 15-year-olds to try to kill pregnant women. Why has Sweden not even tried to make the aid conditional on the agency ending this type of propaganda?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-69	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Julia for the question. I have been very clear in my condemnation, including in the UN Security Council and here in Parliament, of the acts of violence committed by Palestinians against Israelis. The use of violence, even during occupation, is strictly regulated by international law. Everyone involved should do their utmost to avoid disproportionate violence. The current situation of great desperation and a situation on the ground that is developing very negatively with senseless violence must be brought to an immediate end. All parties have a responsibility not to contribute to sedition, provocation or revenge. That is why it is also important that Israel's response is proportionate and in accordance with international law. The Swedish Government is very clear in its dialogue with Palestinian representatives on the importance of distancing itself from violence. We are constantly putting this forward in our contacts, and we will continue to do so.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-72	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the Foreign Minister has been very clear in condemning knife attacks, and I would like to ask a specific question. On November 9, last year, a terrible surveillance video was distributed across the world showing a black-dressed, masked Palestinian woman who handed her ID card over to an Israeli security guard. When the guard looks away, she pulls out a kitchen knife and stabs the back guard, and he escapes with a slight injury. The guard stumbles backwards and manages to draw his service weapon. The woman continues the attack despite warning shots, whereupon she is shot to death. Is this, according to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, disproportionate violence and an extrajudicial execution?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-74	Mr President, I would like to What we can do, Julia Kronlid, and what this Parliament and all responsible politicians can do is do our utmost to prevent violence from escalating in the Middle East. I've condemned acts of violence. I have condemned acts of violence on both sides and continue to make it clear. I don't know how many times I've done it. So we need to get involved in a policy for the Middle East that will hopefully create the conditions for a two-state solution. That's what we still have to stick to. Then we must act responsibly and try to create a climate that allows us to return to peace negotiations.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-76	Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party can agree on several points with the Declaration on Foreign Affairs. We think it is good to have a clear statement that Sweden's most important foreign policy arena is the EU. Support for journalists and human rights is, of course, central to all of us. Climate targets of a maximum of one and a half degrees are something that we also like to see. Of course, we also support a seat in the Security Council. But, Mr President, let us analyse a little more what is Sweden's security policy line. The Secretary of State says it's solid, that it's a broad collection. It is a broad collection of Left Party, Environmental Party and Swedish Democrats behind that line. I don't think it's wide. What does the Foreign Minister mean when she says that our military alliance freedom serves us well? Please describe it! She says that it contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. How does the Foreign Minister feel that it contributes to stability and greater security in Northern Europe? I have read the New Year's speech of the President of Finland where he said: Together Sweden and Finland have strong ties to both the West and the East, and this gives us a special position. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs share this view? If so, describe how we have this special position!
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-81	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for this question! Sweden recently celebrated 200 years of peace that has lasted through both good and bad years. And it's not a coincidence. It is the result of a wise policy of military alliance freedom, which has also made Sweden's voice respected in the world. I think that in these times of concern, we should stick to our military freedom of alliance in order to help reduce tensions. Does Kerstin Lundgren think that it would contribute to relaxation if we suddenly signaled something completely different? Does it contribute to relaxation in our area? For eight years, the Center Party sat in a government that lowered defence appropriations, abolished military service and drove Sweden not to join NATO. Suddenly, the Center Party turns. You quickly and funnyly abolished military service with three votes margin, and now you regret it. Yet you want as quickly as you threw out the military defence now to throw out Sweden's military alliance freedom. For a very long time, the Center has been in favour of military alliance freedom, and so it changed at a congress. We have done the same analysis of the situation in the specialization bill. Now, apparently, it's thrown aside too. We shall continue to maintain our security policy analysis of the situation. We will continue to adhere to the agreements and arrangements we have reached and the bill that the Center was also on. And we shall continue to stick to our security policy line, because it is very ill-suited to poorly anchored and sudden reversals. In the Centre Party you have shown before that you can tone down party politics in times of concern. Is it not time to show this also in terms of security policy?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-86	Mr President, I would like to However, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is a new reality we are experiencing, and we must relate to it. The question is, What serves us well, and what serves our neighbors well? Together, we believe that solidarity is important. I note once again that our partner, the President of Finland, stated that Finland is not in a position to provide other military security guarantees that they do not even have themselves. This is the question of aid to the Baltic States. From our side, we have said that we want to give security to the Baltics. We want it because it helps to create stability and clarity and to strengthen peace in our part of the world. We do this by seeking membership of NATO, not by being non-aligned and going the way that the President of Finland said.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-89	Mr President, I would like to I think we should be glad that the Centre Party has made so many conditions with its decision that NATO membership will probably be impossible in practice. I think that our security policy should rest on the three legs: continued military alliance freedom, broad cooperation with all these partners that I have already listed, including the Baltics – that is the most important thing we can do – and building our own defence so that we can finally get a defence to defend.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-91	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for a foreign policy declaration that is clear in terms of human rights, feminism, climate issues and UN involvement. Foreign policy declarations are important. But what is even more important is how they are translated into daily foreign policy work, how the great words we have heard today are translated into the difficult foreign policy balances that the government faces every day at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What happens to feminist foreign policy when the message starts to cost? Does the government consistently adhere to human rights when that commitment is suddenly in conflict with other interests? I would therefore like to know what the solemn words in today's foreign policy declaration that we should give our belief in fundamental human rights mean for the government's relationship and relations with Turkey. We now receive daily reports of violence against civilians and human rights violations in Turkey. It is clear to all who are following developments that President Erdo中an is becoming increasingly authoritarian and that democracy is becoming increasingly remote under his rule. At the same time, the EU has promised EUR 3 billion in support of Turkey to stop refugees from crossing the Mediterranean into the EU. Sweden will contribute more than SEK 700 million of Swedish taxpayers' funds. I have to admit, Mrs Wallström, that I do not make sense. How will Sweden with credibility be able to demand that President Erdo中an respect human rights while your government is prepared to give him 700 million SEK?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-96	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mr Linde, for the question. This is a very important and difficult issue. It contains all the complexities that Hans Linde has listed. It is about creating momentum in contacts with Turkey, and we talked about that here yesterday. We must condemn what we see as a violation of human rights, a decline in freedom of expression and many problems relating to the way in which Turkey deals not least with the position of journalists, and we had a good debate on that here yesterday. We have seen what is happening in south-east Turkey, where the Kurds and the rest of the population are severely affected by curfews, fighting and violence. We must, of course, distance ourselves from this, and we must engage more in Turkey. And sometimes we have to try to do both. We will discuss with Turkey how to deal with the difficult issue of refugees and migration, because they have such an important role to play. We are not getting away with this, but we must do so. At the same time, we must keep Turkey on the EU track because there is a process to ensure that it also lives up to what is the EU's fundamental values. I think the best thing we can do is to ensure that there is political pressure. We do this, for example, with summits where EU leaders meet with the President and political leaders in Turkey. We must also ensure that there is a process for moving the issues forward. Sometimes we also need to use financial support to push for the right results. Sometimes we have to do both. For the Left Party, perhaps everything is black or white, but for us it is about dealing with the very complex situation that prevails in Turkey. We must therefore try to press on and, at the same time, drive the development in the right direction. That's good for us, too.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-102	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't think foreign policy is always black and white. Often it is complex and rather a mosaic of different colors. But there are also situations when we are faced with road choices and forced to choose sides. A year ago, Mrs Wallström and I were here discussing Saudi Arabia and the military cooperation agreement. Mrs Wallström showed great courage when she strongly criticised Saudi Arabia and when her government subsequently chose to suspend the cooperation agreement. That's when they made a choice. I would have liked to see today the same courage and the same clear path for democracy and human rights in Turkey. What signal does the government think it will send to President Erdo中an and to the people who are suffering from violence in Turkey when sending SEK 700 million to the Turkish Government? I'll tell you what I think you're sending a signal. I believe that Mr Erdo中an feels that the EU is prepared to turn a blind eye to the abuses as long as he prevents refugees from entering the Union. I also believe that the people suffering from violence feel that the European Union is about to negotiate away their fundamental rights.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-107	Mr President, I would like to The money will be used to solve a problem of refugee and migration flows. People are suffering and need humanitarian aid today. If you take away this money, Hans Linde, you leave people in the lurch who really need our support and help. What's the alternative? Is it saying that we should not engage in dialogue with Turkey, nor should we give any money to solve urgent, concrete problems? We must continue the dialogue and put political pressure on Turkey. We must therefore continue on the EU track, but also help to resolve the refugee and migration crisis.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-109	Mr President, I would like to The fall of the Berlin Wall makes a good picture, but it all started at the Polish shipyards. It is the first President of post-communist Poland, Lech Wałęsa, who stands for this statement. Nine years before the fall of the Berlin Wall, trade union protests started at the Gdansk quarries and a whole of Europe began to change. I am therefore pleased that, for the first time with the Red-Green Government, it is mentioned in the foreign policy declaration that the EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. It would also be nice to devote time to the internal political deterioration in value that is currently taking place in Poland, Hungary and several EU countries. I miss this in the foreign declaration. Sweeping words about fundamental values are not enough for me as a liberal. What is happening in Poland casts a sad shadow over the struggle for freedom there, and Poland is not alone. It is a kind of Hungary in replay, where populist ideas are allowed to flourish freely and the independence of the courts is challenged, freedom of the press is eroded and the tone is sharpened against minorities day by day. The EU's Achilles' heel is the control of how members live up to respect for human rights and freedoms. The Commission has now launched an investigation into Poland's abuse of the rule of law. This work needs to be better backed up by the Member States in order to be able to look at, examine and punish those countries that do not live up to the ideals. What is the Minister for Foreign Affairs prepared to do to ensure that freedom of the press is safeguarded in all 28 EU Member States? As you know, we celebrate 250 years of Swedish freedom of the press this year; it is the oldest freedom of the press law in the world. Our European sisters and brothers also deserve this, so what does the Minister want to do?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-115	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Ohlsson for the question. It is quite true that sweeping words are not enough, nor is it just speaking out loud. We have, of course, expressed concern and are working within the European Union to ensure that the values of the European Union are respected and not called into question. I believe that all Member States have a responsibility to live up to these values, including respect for the rule of law and human rights. We welcome the European Commission's decision to launch a structured dialogue with Poland. That is the way we have to work within the EU to continue to put pressure on Poland to also live up to the EU's fundamental values. We also support the review launched by the Venice Commission within the framework of the Council of Europe. We are, of course, following all developments in Poland and Hungary very closely. The very basis of EU cooperation is to ensure that the EU's values are respected. It is within the European Union that we are going to do this, and we are going to push it hard, as we are doing. We have also reported to the EU Board our measures and positions on this issue. I have described what the government is doing to defend human rights, including the establishment of an ambassador for these issues. At a time when it is reported how human rights and democracy are being repressed, we have taken a variety of measures. I think the Liberals are a little jealous of us, because the support they had for these issues in the previous government was probably not always 100%.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-121	Mr President, I would like to It is true that without liberals in the previous government, there would not have been a European policy on this front. We pushed on in spite of conservative resistance on this issue at times. Nevertheless, I call for a much clearer policy. When the Liberals sometimes had resistance and uphill in the alliance government, the Social Democrats in opposition were a clear and clear voice to want to see, examine and punish those countries that did not respect human rights. Just over a month ago, I debated this with Margot Wallström's government colleague Gustav Fridolin. His answers were both vague and weak. I therefore wonder whether Mrs Wallström in the government would like to highlight the work that many of us have started, namely that the EU should have a better regulatory framework with economic and clear political sanctions against EU countries that are totally trampling on the basis that we have been able to have a Union for so many years.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-124	Mr President, I would like to It is an important question how we use the instruments that, not least, Birgitta Ohlsson has pushed for in the EU context. That is what we are doing, and we must stick to these instruments and act in Europe. If we say that it is our most important foreign policy arena, it is also these instruments that we should use. We are very active on this issue and we will continue to be so. We will have even better conditions with an ambassador who runs these issues openly. We will, of course, continue to act in the European context – with the support of the Liberals, I hope.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-126	Mr President, I would like to It is with pleasure that the Christian Democrats note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has heeded our demand to open an embassy in Tunis. Tunisia needs our presence so that we can support the journey along the path they have chosen, the democratic one. I am also pleased that Mrs Wallström stressed so clearly in the declaration the importance of free trade. But, Mr President, it is both sad and surprising that the Red-Green Government is not talking about religious freedom this year either. It is unbelievable when such a large proportion of refugees are people who are forced to flee precisely because of their faith. How, then, can you ignore it? When the Foreign Minister begins to state reasons for discrimination, she talks about anti-Semitism and Islamophobia but does not mention religious freedom as an overarching concept. She does not mention christophobia despite all Christians who are expelled from Christianity's cradle in the Middle East and despite reports of how Christian refugees are threatened with life here in Sweden by other fellows who have fled. Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that the government is not following the clear line of the alliance government against the oppressor state of Eritrea. Dawit Isaak is not named, even though Sweden celebrates the 250th anniversary of the Freedom of the Press Act, even though he has been imprisoned for 5,268 days and although he is the only EU citizen imprisoned for his opinions. Why isn't he mentioned? It is equally remarkable that the government is silent about Ethiopia – a country where at least 10 million people desperately need food, a country whose leadership our Prime Minister has met three times in the last year. If the country is so important to have top relations with, why is it not mentioned here? What would it do for the Foreign Minister to talk about imprisoned journalists in general terms if the Prime Minister were to associate with states that imprison them at the same time?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-133	Mr President, I would like to In many ways Sofia Damm is right. I wish I could go through the other 192 countries. I wish I could list all human rights every time. I wish we had room for everything that should be in a foreign declaration and that applies to everything that we are doing. We work tirelessly to get Dawit Isaak free. I don't want anyone to doubt that. We report to the other parties on the work and progress in getting Dawit Isaak free. I can only say that I think there is a point in everything that Sofia Damm said. We do not differ on these issues; it is all about how we work together to ensure that we can defend fundamental human rights. For me, the practice of religion belongs to them. Yesterday we discussed how the conflicts in Syria and Iraq have led to the persecution and killing of minorities, not least Christian groups, and how important it is that we defend these people's rights and strengthen their protection. I can only agree with Sofia Damm. I believe that we should work even more intensively to ensure that we defend the rights of journalists to speak and operate freely and that we work for freedom of religion and respect for it. We are working with Ethiopia right now to deal with a very difficult situation with drought and starvation. We continue to engage with the imprisoned journalists, including Dawit Isaak, who are around the world.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-139	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Let us hope that these words come true. It is a bit tragic to hear the Foreign Minister speak in the foreign declaration about a moment for the two-state solution when she has been unwelcome in Israel at the same time. If it is a diplomatic triumph, what does defeat look like? Mrs Wallström raises a lot of questions about the speech. The Swedish government is said to be a moral power for a feminist foreign policy, but the balance of reality seems all too often to clash with slogan politics. Two hours from here is Belarus. There the state violates human rights and freedoms. Is there a plan for Belarus now that the sanctions have gone down? That is another thing I miss in the declaration. Is it feminist to talk about North Korea's nuclear weapons and remain silent about serious human rights crimes, such as all women who are forced to sterilise? Is it feminist to talk about Iran's nuclear programme but completely omit human rights and women who are stoned to death?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-144	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I do not have time to answer all the questions, but I would like to say one thing. In this serious world situation, where we see a growing xenophobia and a Europe rocking, I have come to a conclusion: it is more important than ever to make our values the backbone. Swedish foreign policy must be a mix of continuity and an ambition to make a difference. Democracy and the fight for human rights always challenge strong interests. To criticize the fact that a young man is being punished for his blog or to work to make two parties in a conflict a little less unequal has been called undiplomatic by some, but modern diplomacy is not about ironing all with hair. Criticism is a proof that I belong to the group of politicians who believe that politics is a tool for achieving change. I will continue to work for that.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-147	Mr President, I would like to It was decades since events in our surrounding world as concretely intervened in our Swedish everyday life as they do today. We are part of an increasingly integrated and globalised world. And just as we reap the benefits of globalisation, we must face up to its challenges. We do this best together with others who share our values and who, as we do, believe that cooperation makes us stronger. Human rights, democracy, freedom of expression, international law and the rule of law are all values that we still have to fight for. They are not only European values, they are universal. Perhaps we have never needed Europe as much as we do today. In times when authoritarian winds return to our continent, we need more of our common values and freedoms, not less. In times of global financial and economic uncertainty, we need more of economic cooperation and free trade, not less. In times when terrorism is spreading terror in the world, we need more cross-border cooperation to keep our country, our institutions and our citizens safe, not less. At the same time, the construction of Europe, which has served us well for decades, is shaking its foundations. The euro crisis has not blown over, only overshadowed by the migration crisis and the threat of British withdrawal from the Union. The EU has failed to find common solutions. The cost of this is an increase in Euroscepticism and extremist parties on the rise. It is clear that we need a Europe that is better equipped than it is today to face today's many and difficult challenges. What we have achieved so far cannot be taken for granted. Here we believe that Moderates believe that Sweden has a bigger role to play. Through a more active EU policy, skilful diplomacy, good personal relations and alliance building, we can make a difference in EU cooperation here and now. Only by defending the values and principles that have successfully built Europe can we prevent it from being undermined. Our vision for Europe remains – a united, free Europe in peace. But there is a constant need to adapt and adjust the way there. When Europe stands strong, Sweden stands strong. As Europe weakens, Sweden weakens and the risks to Sweden increase. Mr President, I would like to We live once again at a time when military violence and threats of violence have become commonplace in our neighbourhood. Russia's action is not only a threat to its neighbours, but to the order and international regulations that have been in force since the post-war period. This has, of course, the consequences of security policy for the world, for Europe, for the Baltic Sea region and for Sweden. Our world today is more uncertain and anxious than it has been for a long time. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and warfare in eastern Ukraine can never be accepted, nor can the occupation of Georgia nor the destabilisation policy and propaganda warfare that has become the characteristic of the Kremlin. There are many today, including in Europe, calling for a return to the old relationship with Russia. There are several arguments. They mean that we need Russia to bring peace in Syria, for its gas or for quite other reasons. However, the day we are no longer prepared to stand up for the principle that a large country has no more rights than a small country and that each country has the right to make its own security policy choices, our own first line of defence has fallen. I look forward to the day when we can once again welcome Russia into the heat. It is the day when Russia shows with action that it is prepared to respect the Paris Charter, the Minsk Agreement and other agreements and commitments entered into by Russia. Mr President, I would like to The fact that nearly 60 million people in the world today are fleeing their homes has many reasons. The war in Syria is one of many war cores and an example of the decaying states from which people flee for their lives. Over the years, the war in Syria has presented the international community and the UN with difficult tests – tests that have not been passed. The UN Security Council has not assumed its responsibility for international peace and security. Those who have paid the highest price for this are the people of Syria. We are now at a point where it is difficult to see how even a single Security Council could bring the country out of the dark. We support the political process and hope for an early solution. But the hopeful scenarios are in short supply. Let us hope that the ceasefire negotiated by Russia and the United States, which the Syrian regime is said to have accepted, will be put in place and will have an effect. But the question of how to fight and defeat ISIL remains. Mr President, I would like to Developments in Afghanistan also show that the road to peace and stability there is still a long one. In spite of all the good ambitions, there are no simple and ready-made formulas for how to lift an entire country out of poverty or for how to break a spiral of violence that has been going on for decades. At the same time, Mr President, in the last six months we have achieved two historic successes, which not long ago seemed impossible: we have had a new ambitious climate agreement and new sustainability goals in Agenda 2030. This has become a reality after many years of hard work, where Sweden has played a leading role. We have had a great impact on our priorities. Now promises are made, and now the really difficult work begins, namely to implement this in practice. Here, Sweden has continued to play a very important role by being a respected actor and through the knowledge and technology available in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to What are we facing? We must significantly increase humanitarian aid for people suffering from world disasters. We need to streamline the entire chain of support so that each crown reaches and makes a difference to the most vulnerable people. We must be prepared that people will continue to flee these broken countries and that they will continue to go to Europe. We must seek dialogue with our like-minded people and ask ourselves how our role in tackling Isil's threats can look like and how we can respond to the UN resolution that is now in place – the Security Council resolution that urges all Member States to do everything in their power to defeat ISIL. Mr President, I would like to NATO is a central organisation for Europe's security. In practice, our security policy depends on NATO when it comes to providing and receiving assistance in the event of war in our neighbourhood. We must deepen Sweden's cooperation with NATO and develop a roadmap for Swedish NATO membership. For us, the question is not whether Sweden should become a member but how. We face enormous challenges and will do so in the future for a long time. We want the government to focus more on EU cooperation in order to find common solutions, to be prepared to do more to combat terrorism and to open the door to NATO membership.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-170	Mr President, I would like to A message from the Moderates that has recently been used as a reason for not wanting to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats has been that the Moderates solve social problems that SD cannot handle. In view of this argument and the fact that the Moderates have also said that they want to see at least a temporary stop for asylum immigration, a break for the asylum reception in Sweden, I wonder: What is it concrete that the Moderates want to do? What precise legislative changes do the Moderates want to make? What political proposals do you wish to put forward here in Parliament to put a practical stop to asylum immigration, at least temporarily? It is not enough with a little attention in the media and some debate article here and where the proposals of the Swedish Democrats have been copied. Decisions are made here in the Riksdag, not on Svenska Dagbladet's front page. This is where we can change concretely and implement legislative changes. I would like to hear how you want to implement your policy on refugees in practical terms.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-171	Mr President, I would like to What we can see is that, in recent years, the trouble spots and disintegrating states have meant that we have more refugees in the world than we have in a very long time. Up to 60 million people are on the run. We need to get to the root causes of people being forced to flee. It's about crisis and conflict management. It is about providing humanitarian aid to the people who are on the run. Of course, it is also a question of getting involved in development work, so that you can have a better future where you live. This has also brought great challenges and pressures, not least for the EU, when a common view on how to resolve the issue has been lacking and, in part, still lacking. That in order to meet the wishes of the Swedish Democrats in any way, I am going to list all the proposals that the Moderates have drawn up over the past year, I am not going to put up with. We have a completely different view of people's rights, the right to seek asylum and our responsibility to contribute to a better world. Sweden should be an open and generous country. At the moment, we are facing huge challenges. That is why we have proposed a number of measures that will allow us to have a breathing room, a break in the reception of refugees, so that there will be order and so that it will be clear that all the countries of the European Union will have to take their joint responsibility. But we do not have the same starting point as the Swedish Democrats. We believe that cooperation is the solution, not isolation. We believe that we can help people both on the ground and here in Europe, even in our own country. We don't see this as a threat to our future. We see it as challenges.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-176	Mr President, I would like to The proposals that Karin Enström is now talking about that the Moderates have, I would like to see on Parliament's table, so that we can look at them. So far, I haven't seen them. Perhaps the Moderates will continue to support them even if the Swedish Democrats vote for them. Karin Enström talks about going to the root cause of people being on the run. Yes, we in the Swedish Democrats have for many years been pushing for preventive work and increased support in the immediate area. We have proposed 9 billion to the immediate region of the crisis. The Moderates had 500 million extra for UNHCR and then 500 million more for various organisations in their budget exercise. In what way can the Moderates say with credibility that they solve social problems that we cannot solve, when we have a much more elaborate prevention policy in the immediate region, with far more humanitarian aid and far more concrete proposals in this area than the Moderates have? I think the Moderates should perhaps be a little careful before accusing the Swedish Democrats of not having solutions to the problems. We have also brought about a number of concrete moves in this area.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-178	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the Swedish Democrats, we do not primarily relate to various parties in parliament, but to the social problems that need to be solved. I think more parties should do that. We will look at what social problems we have, work on developing our policies and then, of course, win opinion on the proposals we have. Our purpose in this is, of course, to come to the government in order to implement the proposals that we believe in. To say that all people should be helped on the ground when the conflicts have already broken out, which is one of the Swedish Democrats' proposals, we do not think is the right way. It is about getting to the root causes – not to escape from the refugee camp, but to flee from oppression, war and violence. That's where we Moderates can make a difference. As I said, we have a completely different starting point. We want to solve the problems. We do not relate to other parties.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-180	Mr President, I would like to I agree with part of Karin Enström's international analysis. It is, of course, a force in such a small country as Sweden, with 1.4 per mil of the world's population, that we actually agree on a great deal, not least when it comes to the repression inward and outward aggression of the authoritarian Putin regime. There is a great deal of unity between our parties. Perhaps there is a little more room for a vital exchange of ideas if we look the other way. It is not that the United States becomes quite unproblematic as a great power just because the Putin regime is aggressive. I have here a January issue of The Economist, which is definitely not a radical magazine. It has a good insight into how the power elites think, not least in the Western world. There's a pretty scary article on how the Obama administration wants to spend $1 trillion over the next 30-year period to rearrange the American nuclear weapons. They want to develop a new type of cruise missile that can carry both conventional and nuclear charges. The former U.S. Secretary of Defense William Perry, together with former US Deputy Secretary Andy Weber, who was in charge of the nuclear programmes, describes the new U.S. weapons as uniquely destabilizing type of weapon. I never hear the Moderates problematize this side of the armament spiral. It would be interesting to hear Karin Enström comment on that.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-184	Mr President, I would like to I hope we agree that a world without nuclear weapons and without the need for such large military forces, in which we can instead resolve conflicts through dialogue and cooperation and not through threats and armaments, would be an ideal world. Now the reality doesn't look like that. Then it is, among other things, Sweden's task to push for issues of disarmament. This applies in particular to nuclear weapons: the proliferation of nuclear weapons and both tactical and strategic nuclear weapons. Here it is important to be critical of everyone you should be critical of. What has been most evident in recent years is the upswing of nuclear rhetoric on the part of Russia. We also see examples of practice, more or less daily, in exercises that may not be so large and also in strategic exercises. Sweden will, of course, try to win friends and allies in this fight within the EU and the UN to continue with the important disarmament work which, given that we have a much more troubled world, has come into hiding. In addition, Sweden has unique expertise in this area, not least with regard to the monitoring regime that exists to detect, for example, tests of nuclear weapons. Of course, we will continue to support this, but there is nothing we can do alone. On that point, I think we agree. On the other hand, we do not see this as an obstacle to cooperating with countries such as the United States, because the United States is a central part of Europe's security with the transatlantic link. That is also why we think it is important that the host country agreement with NATO can now be put in place. I would like to bring it into the debate as well.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-188	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a fairly detailed answer, Karin Enström! I would still like to drill on in this. Are the Moderates because we are joining this humanitarian initiative for the total decommissioning of the planet's nuclear weapons? In fact, it may be a little difficult to be a NATO member. Norway is committed to these issues, but when it voted on them in the UN General Assembly, they abstained. No NATO country supported this. It has some sort of connection to Norway being in a nuclear alliance. Does Karin Enström not see a problem in working for nuclear disarmament and at the same time entering a US-led nuclear alliance?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-190	Mr President, I would like to As I said in the first line, we still have to see the world as it is. Unfortunately, there is also a balance between and a threat from different countries that have nuclear weapons in their arsenal. Nuclear weapons are different from many other weapons because once they are used, the consequences are more or less insurmountable. For Sweden and the Moderates, it is important to see what benefits our safety best. There we have great differences in vision compared to the Green Party. We think it would be good to have defence guarantees and not just hopes of getting help and support. We also believe that NATO membership would raise the threshold for anyone who would even consider being aggressive against or attacking Sweden. It is therefore both something that raises the threshold to attack Sweden and something that increases our security. That is why we also think that the host country agreement that is now under way is something positive.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-193	Mr President, I would like to Not surprisingly, Karin Enström made a large issue of the NATO issue in previous lines and in her speech. It is somewhat unclear whether it is because the Moderates are really passionate about the NATO issue or whether it is simply the case that the Moderates after Carl Bildt lack other foreign policy issues to pursue in this House. I heard Karin Enström here arguing that NATO membership would increase security for Sweden. However, NATO membership would also mean that we entered a defence alliance with Erdo中an's Turkey and that we signed mutual defence obligations between Stockholm and Ankara. We would therefore enter a defence alliance with Turkey which is becoming increasingly authoritarian and which is violating human rights on a daily basis, which is now turning its own Kurdish cities into war zones, which are in conflict with several of its neighbours, which have violated international law in Iraq over the past year and which have played an unequivocally destructive role in the cruel war in Syria. How would it make us safer in Sweden to join a defence alliance with Erdo中an's Turkey, Karin Enström?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-196	Mr President, I would like to I agree very much with the critical picture that Mr Linde paints about what it looks like in Turkey, not least in terms of domestic politics and the authoritarian regime, i.e. a pressure and the reduced degree of freedom that prevails in the country. It is surrounded by several conflicts, and, which is very serious, it is an increased tension between Turkey and Russia. Yes, we know that Turkey is a member of NATO. This does not make me think we would be less sure of being NATO members. All NATO members have decided that attacks on an individual Member State should be interpreted as an attack on the entire Alliance. Given how insecure it actually looks in our neighbourhood – I tried to give a picture of it in my speech, and I think everyone agrees with the dark picture – it is, and we agree on that in this House, cooperation and cooperation with other countries and other organisations that build security. Today, the situation is so serious that we think that the reasons for further strengthening our security are heavy. That is also why we are clear that we think we should set up a roadmap for what Swedish NATO membership should look like. I know that the Left Party is against it and has always been against it, and I find it difficult to see any shade difference in this. But you cannot just wish away the problems and threats that we face. On the other hand, this does not mean that we should not be critical when human rights are being violated and when we see that developments are moving in the wrong direction. We'll do that with power. It must be possible to do this by being clear and not by stopping cooperating.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-200	Mr President, I would like to That's what Karin Enström managed to do. It was not quite clear why the Moderates believe that my parents at home in Klågerup in Skåne, my neighbours in Majorna and my friends and acquaintances around Sweden are becoming safer in their everyday lives and how to guarantee our common security by connecting Sweden closer to Ankara and President Erdo中an's increasingly authoritarian regime. NATO is not a sandwich table. If we enter NATO, we are as much allies with Erdo中an as with our Nordic neighbours. It is not possible to enter into an alliance with our Nordic neighbours alone; it is just as much a military alliance with mutual defence obligations with Turkey. Yes, we are in a serious security policy situation in Europe. There are several threats to security. One of these threats is the increasingly authoritarian government in Turkey. I find it difficult to see that the answer to this very serious security situation in Europe would be that we entered a defence alliance with Turkey.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-203	Mr President, I would like to I do not believe that this is the only argument that Mr Linde can raise for his own opposition to cooperation with the central organisation for the security of Europe. By cooperating and by planning and practicing, you increase your military capabilities, which we will benefit from. At the same time, we must be able to be a clear critic of countries with which we cooperate, whether it is the EU or NATO, where developments are going in the wrong direction. That's where we're in complete agreement. If this is a development that we do not want to see, we must step up our efforts to ensure, through dialogue and with criticism, that negative developments are broken. Hans Linde and I have completely different starting points. We believe in cooperation. We believe that it increases our security, as a Baltic state, but also as a country in Europe. As I said, in the serious situation that we are in, we need guarantees and not hopes.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-207	Mr President, I would like to There is a lot going on in the world right now, much more than this speech does. I would therefore like to begin by mentioning that the foreign policy programmes of the Swedish Democrats, with our most important ideological starting points and positions, are available on our website. Mr President, I would like to The conflict in Syria has caused tremendous suffering. The ruthless IS terror organisation must be stopped, and the Asad regime must immediately stop its abuses and use starvation as a weapon. It is positive that attempts are being made to negotiate peace in Geneva. Let us hope that the promised ceasefire will actually enter into force on Saturday. The fact that there has been some humanitarian access to vulnerable regions in Syria also inspires hope, although there is still much to be done. An important prerequisite for a long-term sustainable solution is that all parties are represented at the negotiating table, apart from terrorist groups of course. Although there have been some individual representatives from Kurds and Christians, we believe that Kurds and Christians as groups should be better represented in the peace negotiations. A long-term sustainable solution in Syria must also take into account their situation. Mr President, I would like to Sweden and Europe need to redirect their refugee policy completely and invest more and more in the immediate area of the crisis, rather than scaling off more and more aid in order to fund an unsustainable asylum policy in Sweden. It is good that the government has started to take after the Swedish Democrats' proposals on certain migration issues, but more needs to be done. Yesterday I attended a conference in Brussels with the Foreign Affairs Committee of the European Parliament. The President of the Lebanon Parliament was there to speak. He made it clear that aid to countries of origin and the neighbourhood is extremely important and should be given greater priority. He expressed great disappointment at the fact that no more countries in the EU have contributed to supporting Lebanon. As a result of the Syria Conference in London, significant contributions from different countries were promised. It is positive, but it is not enough. And the awakening will be far too late. I do not think that the government and Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström understand the extent of the problems caused by irregular migration. The Mediterranean Sea : a front door to irregular migration and organised crime and migrants were discussed in the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in January, in which I participated. The reports establish, inter alia: 中 that migrants on their way to Europe are often robbed on their way, subjected to forced labour, sexual exploitation or ill-treatment 中 that smugglers systematically use seaworthy ships and toss off in excess and thus knowingly endangers people's lives 中 that around 30 000 people in Europe are working on illegal human trafficking at the moment. We also know from other sources that the Islamic State is making hundreds of millions of dollars out of this. The reports also state that the reason why people still choose to go on this journey is that the situation in neighbouring countries, such as Turkey and Lebanon, where these people have often lived for years, has become unsustainable. It is much thanks to the failure of Sweden and the international community to provide sufficient funds. I would also like to add that irregular migration is highly women-discriminatory. Single women, with or without children, are often particularly vulnerable. It is difficult for them, if not impossible, to make it to Europe on their own via smugglers. Therefore, help in the neighbourhood or resettlement via UNHCR may be their only opportunity to get help. Of those who came to Sweden through resettlement via UNHCR, the group with low government priorities, 75 per cent were women and children. Of the asylum seekers, which the government prioritises, who came on irregular routes, the numbers were reversed. Sixty-seven per cent were men, and 33 per cent were women. And of the unaccompanied children, who are not always children, less than 1 percent were women. The rest were men. It is therefore time to change the refugee policy. It is time to say no to all forms of irregular migration, to say yes to planned and secure resettlement via the UNHCR and to say yes to substantially increased support for the neighbourhood. Mr President, I would like to As a Swedish democrat, we grant every nation the right to preserve its sovereignty, its territorial integrity, its distinctiveness, its traditions and its culture. We strongly condemn when one state seeks to violate the territorial integrity of another state and violate international law. From this point of view, it has been a matter of course for us to be critical of Russia's actions in Ukraine. We support continued sanctions against Russia. At the same time, we understand that the protection of the nation must go hand in hand with the protection of democracy and respect for human rights. An important issue in our foreign policy is also to support minorities and peoples who, with an undeniable historical right to their territory and with the support of international law, are striving for greater autonomy or an independent democratic state. We are the only party in the Swedish parliament that wants to encourage and recognise Somaliland, an area in Somalia that works and deserves autonomy. We also support the democratic aspirations of the Kurds in Iraq. And we support the Christian quest for autonomy in the plain of Nineves. Mr President, I would like to The majority in the previous Parliament, led by the Social Democrats, declared that they wanted to see recognition of the Sahrawi Arab Republic. But the same Social Democrats have now changed their minds and instead want to wait for the UN process, during Ban Ki Moon's last year as Secretary-General, to lead to a peace agreement. A peace agreement and a referendum, in which the people of Western Sahara are allowed to vote on their independence, are, of course, the most important objective. However, we believe that the process has taken such a long time and that the positions are so locked that recognition could raise hope among the people of Western Sahara and put pressure on Morocco so that the process can be led forward. I would even go so far as to say that the government's action on this issue sets a dangerous and potentially destabilising precedent. Since the cease-fire in 1991, the Western Sahara and Polisario have not waged an armed struggle for their independence. They do not have an agenda aimed at killing all Moroccans and destroying the state of Morocco, and they do not shoot rockets into Morocco on a daily basis. We have not seen any intifada of Western Sahara killing Moroccan women and children. On the other hand, that agenda has Hamas and Al-al-Fatah vis-à-vis Israel. Yet the government has recognised Palestine but not Western Sahara. I have talked to people from Western Sahara who wonder if they have to resort to violence to gain recognition from the Swedish government. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström should take a moment to think about whether violence should really pay off. As far as Israel is concerned, I very much regret all the terrible stabbings that have been committed and regret the grief of all those affected. I am sorry that Israel, in its struggle to defend its citizens, has been accused by the Swedish Foreign Minister for extrajudicial executions. I want to make it clear that this is a statement that I do not support. Mr President, I would like to The Islamic State's campaign of terror is perhaps the worst that the world has seen since the Holocaust. I am pleased that in a resolution, Foreign fighters in Syria and Iraq, the Council of Europe has recognised that what is going on in Iraq is a genocide. Christians are a particularly vulnerable group, and the persecution and extermination of them must be stopped. The fight against IS does not just take place there. It also starts here in Sweden. The law must be tightened up to stop people from Sweden from participating in fighting and committing human rights violations in Syria.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-231	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable ambassadors and all the others who follow this debate in different ways! We are living in a time when authoritarian machos celebrate triumphs: Putin, Erdo, Orbán, caveman Donald Trump and others. In such a time, more than ever, a feminist foreign policy is needed that shows other ways forward for the peculiar being who calls himself homo sapiens, the thinking man. It is high time we showed ourselves worthy of this inviting designation and began to think forward and take the direction of the great opportunities within reach if we are able to think in new ways. We do not need to cultivate intransigence and hatred towards them on the other side of the border, whether political, religious or cultural. And if we replace hatred with tolerance and openness, we do not need to spend more money on arms constantly either. The Middle East increased its arms imports over the last five-year period by as much as 61%, more than any other region in the world. Extremely patriarchal Saudi Arabia increased its arms imports by almost unimaginable 275 percent during the period and became the world's second largest arms importer. However, this tsunami of weapons has not made Saudi Arabia a secure and stable society, but, on the contrary, is increasing the spiral of violence in an alarming manner with increasing repression inward and increasing aggressiveness outwards. It is difficult to see how Saudi society can get out of its dead end without women, who today make up 60% of the country's university students, being treated as human beings. Mr President, I would like to If someone's importing weapons, someone else is exporting. We in the Western world supply the authoritarian regimes of the Middle East with vast quantities of sophisticated weapons and at the same time receive large flows of refugees from this conflict-filled part of the world. It is high time we started to ask ourselves whether a causal link exists here. How clever is it really to export weapons to dictatorships? And how clever is it to turn a blind eye to atrocities committed by West-friendly autocrats? Have we learned nothing from the Arab Spring? After winter darkness comes a new spring. In Turkey, President Erdo has resumed the war against the Kurds and imprisoned journalists, trade unionists and opposition politicians, yet much of the outside world treats this twilight figure with all the respect he himself denies his opponents. And in Egypt something is now being established that is increasingly similar to a classic military dictatorship without much protest from the West, and when all democratic influence stops, the terrorist networks recruit many new members. Women are over-represented among the victims of war and conflict but heavily under-represented among diplomats and peace brokers and, as the Foreign Minister explained in the foreign declaration, the government is now working systematically to involve women in peace processes and has, among other things, taken the initiative of setting up a women mediation network. Military violence rarely builds long-term security; on the contrary, we see time and again how over-reliance on military solutions throws countries into chaos and hopelessness and creates breeding ground for terrorist networks. Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya illustrate how difficult it is with massive military efforts from outside to create positive developments and at the moment we are seeing how Russian bombs in Syria are giving rise to new flows of refugees. In order to achieve real development, a smart development policy is invaluable, and later in this debate the Environmental Party's Development Policy spokesperson Pernilla Stålhammar will present our ideas in this central policy area. Mr President, I would like to During last year's UN summits in New York and Paris, new global sustainability goals and a new climate agreement were adopted. We must remember, however, that these successes are starting lines and not targets which we now need to fill with concrete content. And for this to be possible, a broad resource mobilisation is required. We cannot afford that 7.6 trillion dollars – about 10% of global bnp – are squalid in tax havens for no good or used for parasitic speculation. It is time that all the solemn promises made against tax havens by the OECD, the G20 and several associations, were finally made. And developing countries certainly cannot afford to lose $100 billion a year in tax revenue forgone because large multinationals do not pay taxes in those countries where profits are generated. Binding international legislation on country-by-country reporting of corporate profits and tax payments must be introduced. It must also be made easier for people in developing countries who are affected in various ways by the activities of Western companies to prosecute these companies in their home countries. This kind of proposal is sometimes portrayed as anti-business, but I believe that the opposite is the case and that proposals that make it difficult for unserious entrepreneurship give a comparative advantage to all the small businesses. A football judge who gives the ugly players a yellow or red card is not opposed to the football itself, but to its declines. Foreign policy today is not just about high-level contacts between government leaders, but we see how modern communication technology has given a lot of impetus to people-to-people contacts between individuals, associations, municipalities in different countries. Not least for people in authoritarian states, this can open a window to the outside world, something that was unthinkable in the dictatorships of previous epochs. It is important that we remember that beyond powerful elites there are always communities populated by ordinary people. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I agree with all the statements made by the Foreign Minister in the foreign policy declaration.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-246	Mr President, I would like to In six minutes you don't have time to talk about the whole world, but Valter Mutt was far out in the big world. But he ducked for the issues we face most closely. I am thinking here of the host country agreement with NATO, which is not just being discussed at the moment, but is being prepared for us to be able to make decisions here in Parliament. For us Moderates, the host country agreement is central for Sweden to be able to provide and receive joint and several military support to and from our neighbouring countries. The purpose of the agreement is to ensure that Sweden can provide effective support in connection with joint exercises and crisis management operations, for example. It will increase our ability to provide and receive military support, fully in line with the solidarity policy that we have agreed. The agreement is based on voluntaryity, and all activities carried out on our territory must be approved by Sweden. But it is no secret that there are differences of opinion about the agreement, especially within the Green Party. Here there are myths about all the terrible things that could happen if the agreement becomes a reality. You have every right to do that. In a free country you can express yourself freely. The problem is whether you're part of a government, whose policy you're supposed to represent. Valter Mutt said that he fully agrees with the Foreign Minister's speech, but the question is how Valter Mutt views the host country support agreement. Valter Mutt has spread a lot of information about how bad it would be and what little influence Sweden would have. What's the connection? You have to choose sides sometimes. Either you're in the government or you just have to resign. How does Valter Mutt view this?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-251	Mr President, I would like to This theater is played every year. When you four parties were part of the alliance government, it is clear that there were differences of opinion. That is why there are different parties. In parliamentary history, they have presented their ideas to the electorate and then – if you form a coalition government – they negotiate within the government until they agree. It's like there's no strangeness like this. That's right. In the 2014 election campaign, our then defence spokesperson Peter Rådberg clearly stated that we do not think that Sweden should conclude a host country agreement with NATO. Of course we stand by it. If I had been Prime Minister, there wouldn't be a host country deal. Now it's a bit away from that. That is why we have to negotiate so that the agreement is at least bad. Karin Enström speaks of myths. In that case, very experienced diplomats such as the People's Partyist Hans Blix, former UN ambassador Pierre Schori, speak of myths by the disarmament negotiator Rolf Ekéus. Has Karin Enström read the independent NATO investigation that has been written by some of Sweden's most competent in this area? It is clear that you should look at this very seriously in order to get an agreement with as few risks as possible, if we are to have such an agreement. These are not extreme positions, are they? I read what Christer Winbäck, now Vice-President of Parliament against small arms, has written. He's one of the People's Party's most skilled foreign policies. During the last parliamentary term, we were both on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Parliament's view is that the best thing would be for it to be a re-referral so that we could look at this properly.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-256	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if this made me so much wiser. The biggest risks I see with this and with what Valter Mutt is now doing is rather spreading uncertainty about what the government really thinks. I think that's serious. Of course, every agreement with other countries and other organisations should be carefully reviewed so that you know what the decision is. But now we go from that to saying that this basically makes Sweden some kind of landfill for both one and the other, and that is not true. It cannot be the government's intention to sign such an agreement. Back to the core, Valter Mutt! There is a risk, as I see it, if too many in the Green Party are hesitant and spread this kind of untruth – I would call it – about the agreement. It is more dangerous for Sweden. On the contrary, I am sure that the agreement will increase Sweden's security once it is signed.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-259	Mr President, I would like to We can already have very large joint exercises with NATO, Karin Enström, if you like it. It's no problem. Many NATO countries do not have host country agreements. America doesn't. I therefore find it difficult to see why this would be so absolutely necessary, as Karin Enström describes it. We see, of course, that we already have large-scale NATO exercises today, and that works very well.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-261	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Green Party how it is that you, together with the government, want to pursue a women-discriminatory refugee policy. The current policy of refugees from the Green Party and the government, despite some tightening up, strongly favours irregular migration over help in the neighbourhood and resettlement via UNHCR. This priority has severe consequences for women. For single women with small children, it is with great dangers to get to Europe via migrant smugglers. It can even be so difficult and even impossible for them to stay in the immediate vicinity, where the situation is serious due to the great lack of humanitarian aid. They also risk being subjected to sexual abuse, for example. Humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood and resettlement via UNCHR can be the only way for them to get help. Sixty-seven per cent of asylum seekers who arrived irregularly in 2014 were men and 33 per cent were women. Those who come through resettlement are the low priority group of government. Instead, priority is given to the most vulnerable, and there is a majority of those who come to women and children, about 75%. How, then, is it that the Green Party still wants to pursue a policy that is strongly beneficial and with financial resources, prioritising irregular migration over help in the immediate area, where many women are present, and before resettlement? There is a much greater opportunity to help women and children safely get to Europe.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-265	Mr President, I would like to Julia Kronlid always pits weak groups against each other. But I never really hear a word from the SD about how to resolve the major conflicts that have created these tragedies. I never hear anything about it. I never hear anything about resource mobilization and about Tobin taxes and other new financial resources, perhaps eventually global carbon taxes. I never hear any new ideas and anything other than this comfortless song that goes around, around and where different desperate groups of people are pitted against each other. Our vision, of course, is not that there should be a lot of irregular refugee traffic, but that there should be open and legal ways into Europe. We have adopted, in my opinion, a very ambitious Syria strategy which has attracted attention throughout the development society in other countries as well. Try to lift your eyes a little! Think of some new thoughts! It's not dangerous.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-268	Mr President, I would like to I was quite clear in my speech on how I see the importance of peace negotiations in Syria. I had suggestions as to how I think long-term solutions should be found for all groups in Syria. Of course, we do not just want humanitarian aid. We also have efforts for long-term work, such as support for water and sanitation. Maybe it's just Valter Mutt who hasn't listened. I have a question about irregular routes. The Green Party does not want refugees to have to take irregular routes. But how are these roads to be stopped? It is not enough simply to put forward an alternative and say: you can also choose the legal path. There are already legal ways through UNHCR. But they are not a priority – not by the Green Party, not by the government and not by many other countries in Europe. As long as smugglers make money on their networks, they will continue. It is not enough to say: We think you should stop! They don't listen to it. As long as they make money, they will continue even if there are alternatives.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-271	Mr President, I would like to I was now attributed to the most imaginative views: that I am in favour of criminal networks and so on. It will be a little difficult to respond to that kind of argument. It is a classic rhetorical trick to attribute an opinion to someone and debate it instead of what the other stands for. I still think that the big catch in SD's whole argumentation and analysis is that we need to have another world. You are not on the barricade where we have stood for many years in terms of tightening up arms export regulations and only exporting arms to democracies. On the contrary, I see that you are generous and do not want a restrictive approach. Can't you see the connection? We have a massive outflow of weapons to the Middle East and an influx of refugees. Do you really not see the connection?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-273	Mr President, I would like to It is not all part of an external declaration; it is quite clear. Some are exciting to think about when listening to Valter Mutt. I would have liked to have asked about the forthcoming proposal for tighter export control, because listening to Valter Mutt sounds like there will be a new series of articles from him on this issue. I also listened to the question asked earlier by Karin Enström about the host country agreement. There is also a speech on the silence of the foreign declaration. We understand that when we read articles by Valter Mutt on the subject. Now, however, I am a little curious on this particular issue: does Valter Mutt perhaps want to reveal whether the government now agrees to present the host country agreement or not? Mr President, I would like to I also have a completely different question. I heard the criticism – and I can agree with much of it – of what is happening in Saudi, human rights, Erdo中an's actions in Turkey and the abuses that are taking place there and the abuses in Egypt. Mr President, I would like to When I hear what the government's collective voice now sounds like, however, I think a little more about Valter Mutt's attitude to the export strategy. It is important for the government, and it is precisely those countries that Valter Mutt so strongly speak against that have a top position in the export strategy. How does that work out, Mr President?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-277	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the questions! I am not discussing proposals that have not been completed. It may be interesting, but not very meaningful. As far as export strategies are concerned, we are opposed to the arms trade in the world. We really need to turn it down. But otherwise we are not opposed to trade. Time and again we see repressive regimes loosened up by trade. Therefore, I do not really understand the issue of export strategy. I think there is a huge empirical view of how hard countries are gradually opened up through trade as an instrument. Kerstin Lundgren is happy to develop the question.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-279	Mr President, I would like to The talking silence continues on these questions by Valter Mutts and the Green Party. The powerful rhetoric used in the argument against these countries obviously does not apply when it comes to the export strategy, the attempts made by the government and the journeys made to open up trade. I now understand that the Green Party and Valter Mutt are keen supporters of economic growth and trade as part of development and opportunities throughout the world. That is, of course, welcome. I heard Valter Mutt say that we needed to think new, and I understand that here too Valter Mutt has thought new.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-281	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your praise! We in the Green Party have never questioned the need for growth in the poorest countries of our world. Maybe we have to in the overcrowded part when something slows down. I criticised authoritarian leaders, Putin, Erdo an, Orbán and so on. We in the Green Party never set the same standards between regimes and countries. There are communities behind the regimes. Trade can benefit broad sections of the population in the long term. It feels very bad to somehow set them against each other. It feels as if Åsa Nisse-Marxists who once existed in the Center's Youth Association are on the move.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-284	Mr President, I would like to Just before Christmas, the Government of the Social Democrats and the Green Party decided to break the agreement signed by Sweden with the Global Fund and to reduce the funding for the Global Fund by SEK 300 million this year. It's a 35% cut. The Global Fund is a very important player in terms of sexual and reproductive health and rights. It plays a very central role in combating HIV, malaria and tuberculosis. The 300 million dollars that the government is now withdrawing corresponds to the cost of preventing 800,000 new cases of the three diseases and of providing lifesaving medical treatment for some 100,000 people with HIV and 22 000 people infected with tuberculosis. At the same time as the reduction is made, the government chooses to make other investments. It has decided to give 700 million out of the Swedish state budget to the Government of Ankara in order for Turkey to stop Syrian refugees from crossing the Mediterranean. I must confess, Valter Mutt, that I find it difficult to understand that priority. Is it a smart development policy, as Valter Mutt mentioned earlier? I would like Valter Mutt to explain why his government chooses to take money from the work of giving HIV-positive drugs in Africa as a brake to give the money to Turkey's increasingly authoritarian government.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-289	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Linde, for the question. Mr Linde is well aware that there has been something of a state of emergency in which we have done things that we do not, of course, want to do. The cuts in the entire aid budget are the last thing we would like to do. It is clear that we have a very strong ambition to restore funds to the Global Fund as soon as possible. But we know that this has been a very special situation. We can't think of that entirely from the analysis.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-290	Mr President, I would like to That does not really explain the government's priority in this case, Valter Mutt. If the Left and I had been left to decide, the 700 million would have been rejected by Mr Erdo and increased the global fund's funding by 300 million. It is a saving of SEK 400 million. If the government really feels that it is important to give money to Erdo at this time, it might have been possible to settle for SEK 400 million. Then you could have kept the promise you made to the Global Fund. But you actively chose to make a different choice. You made a different priority. You chose to cut back on work on HIV, malaria and tuberculosis around the world. Instead, you chose to send SEK 700 million to Erdo an. Nevertheless, it is a priority that your government and your Minister for Development have made that you need to explain.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-294	Mr President, I would like to It's not like we're sending money to Erdo on a personal basis. It almost sounds like that on Hans Linde. We have a situation in Turkey where it has received millions of refugees from Syria and Iraq. Of course, it is not in the interests of the outside world that Turkey should fall into total chaos. You get somewhere contextualize it into a larger picture.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-295	Mr President, I would like to When I read Aftonbladet on Monday, I almost thought that the Russian state media had got their own column. But it wasn't Cold War propaganda with Putin as the sender, but it was the Green Party's Valter Mutt. We live in an increasingly uncertain world. There, Sweden must of course be able to give and receive help in the event of a crisis or war. This requires that we stand up for liberal social systems through a strong Swedish defence. It also requires us to extend our cooperation with the rest of the free world. That is why we as Liberals think it is important for Sweden to become a member of the NATO Defence Alliance. The host country agreement that several of my alliance colleagues have previously highlighted is therefore extremely central. Accepting it is a good step along the way. It improves our ability to give and receive military assistance. This will mean that NATO's rapid reaction force, following the invitation – and only then – will have the opportunity to practice on Swedish territory, and in a strong position NATO will be able to participate in Sweden's defence. Mr President, I would like to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist certainly does not have it easy. At the People's and Defence Conference in Sälen in January, he called on the debaters to stop spreading the myths about the host country agreement, which unfortunately also flourishes in this debate article by Valter Mutt. We Liberals share the concerns of the Minister for Defence on this front. Who really benefits from this agreement being discredited? Who wants to make cooperation between Sweden and the rest of the members of NATO more difficult? Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Valter Mutt: Will the Green Party in the government stop an important Swedish host country agreement with NATO? The Swedish people deserve an answer. What exactly is required to change for you to agree to it? I do not think that the answers have been clear enough in the past.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-300	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Brigitta Ohlsson! I can inform you that I have written the article to a large extent after long talks with Hans Blix, who was once the Foreign Minister of the People's Party. There was such a party once, and he is still in the People's Party. It is somewhat casual that what one of Sweden's most respected experts in these areas says is dismissed as myths. It's a pretty low level. It's pretty clear that we're writing in the article. We refer to paragraphs of the host country agreement. Paragraph 3.1 refers to our adherence to NATO doctrine. We are deeply concerned about this, because NATO's doctrine is ultimately based on nuclear deterrence. It is stated in Section 18 of NATO's so-called strategic document adopted at the 2010 NATO Summit in Lisbon. We are discussing the substance, as is done in the independent NATO investigation, in which Hans Blix is present. I think we should have a discussion on this. We should not just dismiss things in a very flat-rate way, as I think Birgitta Ohlsson did here just now. Of course we can stand and talk about Putin propaganda. Maybe it has its theatrical points. But it's not something that drills deep. Has Brigitta Ohlsson read the independent NATO investigation?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-303	Mr President, I would like to In this debate article Valter Mutt and others are concerned that NATO will attack Russia from Swedish territory if Sweden signs the host country agreement. One wonders if the Green Party and the Swedish Government believe that Russia should be concerned about an attack by NATO. The article spreads several lies, as I mentioned earlier. Among other things, nuclear weapons should automatically be placed on Swedish soil. Firstly, it is excellent to be a NATO member without placing nuclear weapons. Norway is an excellent example of this. Secondly, NATO is an intergovernmental organisation. The catch of the host country requires an invitation from Sweden. NATO does not do anything that the Member State or the host country does not invite. For us Liberals and for the whole Alliance, it is obvious that cooperation with NATO is the only guarantee of a strong defence and that we can move forward on this front. It is interesting that this exposes a major gulf within the government in the face of an important issue.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-306	Mr President, I would like to Well, big gulf– you had a much bigger gulf in the alliance government in your time when some parties were in favour of NATO membership and others were against. There was a much bigger gap in that case. But it is clear that I think the Prime Minister has a very clear point in, if we are talking about NATO membership, that it is an advantage if Finland and Sweden stay outside. There, his argument is based on rather heavy peace and conflict research: increasing tensions in the Baltic Sea region if, as it were, it becomes a 600-mile-long red-hot NATO border between Finland and Russia. Do we really want it? I think it only benefits the Putin regime and the most backward elements, the security structures, in Russian society if they can point to what they can then call a threat from the west. There is no need for fewer non-aligned countries in our world, but for more.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-310	Madam President, I would like Valter Mutt is an interesting foreign policy and a diligent debater. I would like to refer here to another debate article, which Valter Mutt wrote last autumn, in which he strongly condemned Egypt's leadership. The environmental party's foreign policy spokesperson called on us to distance ourselves completely from the military dictatorship in Cairo. This also came up in today's speech. However, at the November summit, the Mutt government signed a cooperation agreement with Egypt. Why is that? We have been together in Ethiopia with other members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, where we discussed the Khartoum process and the Valletta Summit with the EU delegation on the ground. However, I think that the answers we received were rather vague as to what this will mean in practice, and so I would like to ask Valter Mutt how the Green Party views the development of agreements with this type of country.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-313	Madam President, I would like Carl Bildt said the world doesn't look like Skövde. I think that was a pretty good summary of the state of our world. It goes without saying that one may sometimes be forced to have contacts with regimes that are deeply repressive, but I maintain, in fact, that I see it as deeply problematic that the present regime in Egypt was created by a coup against the elected President Mursi. Then you can think what you want about him, but he should have been put away in elections and not in a coup. Then there was a very bloody aftergame when Field Marshal Al-Sisi took power, with over 1 000 dead and 40 000 imprisoned. The former president, Mursi, and many around him are sentenced to death in trials that must be described as show trials. If the West does not apply its own ideals outside Europe, I believe that it really feeds terrorism. That is what we are seeing in Egypt now that large parts of the Sinai Peninsula are being taken by terrorists, the Egyptian Prosecutor General was blown up and so on. This will inevitably come if doors are closed for some sort of reasonable democratic activity. I'm very afraid of that development, and that's why I wrote the article.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-318	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Valter Mutt, for your answer. No, the world certainly does not look like Skövde at all. Real politics is also very often caught up in placard politics. I still think Valter Mutt owes me the answer. How does the Green Party feel about the agreement itself? This is mainly about migration policy. We can look at Eritrea, for example. On the basis of the yardstick used by Mutt, it would be interesting to know what is left to describe that country, which is also part of this type of cooperation agreement, a country that Eritreans are fleeing. It is the largest refugee group that comes to Europe from Africa, and this is where people are being prevented from fleeing. It is again an example of real politics, but how does Valter Mutt see this?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-321	Madam President, I would like These are difficult, urgent and painful questions that Sofia Damm travels. In the best of worlds, a lot of things would look very different. Of course it is. I am, of course, behind the government's actions, agreements and so on. That's how the world works.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-323	Madam President, I would like Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, Sweden and Europe have been borne by the dream of peace, freedom and reconciliation, united in the construction of our common house with democracy, human rights and the rule of law, with openness to the outside world. We just thought we'd learned our lesson. Walls and barbed wire between our countries are closing people out as well as inside them and are deteriorating welfare today and for future generations. Political short-sightedness is now in danger of eroding the values we have fought so hard to achieve after the Second World War, both here at home and within the EU. It is in times of crisis that we and our values are being put to the test. It is now that we must show courage, stand by humanism, diversity, tolerance and transparency and show that these are not just fine words on solemn occasions. According to the government, Sweden's voice may be independent, but translated into action it is now weakening. For the Center Party there is no doubt. We build security for Sweden together with others. We do it on the basis of international law. We will be involved in international efforts, both peace-building and forced peacemaking as well as peace-promoting, on the basis of our conditions. We will respond promptly and generously when members of the European Union request our help. The Center Party is always prepared to contribute to Sweden taking on its responsibilities. It is essentially a question of solidarity. It is through action that we show what solidarity is worth and also what we expect from others. Madam President, I would like Sweden's foreign and security policy is not neutral. Military alliance freedom has historically served us well, but today it is no longer the case. We are building a solidarity policy with our neighbours. The hard core of security policy, our military capabilities, requires cooperation. The Center Party welcomes bilateral cooperation with Finland and others. We welcome the host country agreement with NATO as part of deepening our overall capacity. But this does not correct the question marks which today characterise Sweden's security policy. The Center Party argues that it is now high time to make our declared solidarity credible by also starting a process of membership of NATO. We want to see this process start this year as an extension of the host country agreement. We would like us to become members together with Finland, but of course we do not give them any right of veto over our decisions. The Secretary of State needs to read here what the Center Party's voice said. Through clarity, transparency and guaranteed solidarity, we jointly strengthen our ability to push for peace, freedom and reconciliation in our Europe. The Center Party is clearly striving for the disarmament of nuclear weapons. Just as we worked to build alliances against anti-personnel mines and cluster weapons, we are prepared to do so against nuclear weapons, both as members of the European Union and as members of NATO. There is scope for future Nordic initiatives. Madam President, I would like Today we see an increasingly aggressive, revanschist and nationalist Russia. President Putin and his loved ones sought to redraw Europe's map of military force. They seek to further destabilise Ukraine as well as Georgia, Moldova and Montenegro, and they are conducting a broad and intense propaganda war, at the same time as Russian civil society is being silenced and strangled. Almost on the day of a year ago, one of the most colourful leaders of the opposition, Boris Nemtsov, was murdered on the open street right next to the Kremlin. Now others are threatened in the same way. LGBTQ people, journalists and dissidents are harassed, imprisoned and threatened with life. Russia under Putin shows that the agreements and values they themselves signed are not worth anything. The Minsk Agreement saw the light of day a year ago. It would not only provide a ceasefire but also a path to restoring the territorial integrity of Ukraine. The last is crucial in order to ensure a sustainable solution. Political developments in Ukraine cannot be read independently of the developments we have seen in Eastern Ukraine. Russia is demanding government and parliament in Kiev, but it does not require itself to cease its decisive support for the separatists. The demands of the government and the EU must be clear to the aggressor Russia- out of Ukraine and ensure that Ukraine is given full right to its borders. It is action, not words, from Russia that counts. In this respect, the EU must stick together and clearly uphold its line of sanctions. It's about our common security. The war in Syria is now in its fifth year. Humanitarian, the war is absolutely devastating. Half the country's population, 11 million, is on the run. It's a war with many people involved, with power struggles on every level. Of course, there should be full support for attempts at ceasefire and full support for the Geneva talks as a rough road to peace. Russia's bombings in support of al-Asad-Assad must stop – as must Turkey's attacks on the Kurds. Even in Syria, it is action, not words, that determines. At the same time, the international community must be able to maintain pressure on and continue to act to effectively stop Daish. Madam President, I would like The danger is that we are now moving towards an even more fragmented Europe, a more paralysed Europe where the lowest ambitions become the common denominator and that we are seeing a new division in the East and the West. It will seriously damage the EU's and thus Sweden's ability to influence. Populism is growing. It is desirable from the Moscow horizon, but not for those of us who stand up for free speech, for freedom of expression, for the individual human rights of all, for an independent judiciary and democracy. We must push for a Europe that is capable of acting as a political leader and not as a spectator. Madam President, I would like Sweden's foreign policy must aim for global sustainable development, help to eradicate poverty and oppression, to meet climate threats and to inclusive growth. The Center Party stands up for a Swedish aid of 1 percent of bni. We are ready to give priority to safeguarding aid to the poorest and least developed countries. We want to see a vote on a parliamentary basis shaping our 2030 agenda. Africa is a continent with plenty of opportunities for the future. Sweden will contribute not only to aid but also to sustainable solutions by developing trade and investment. There is also a great understanding of the importance of climate for our lives. That's something to cooperate on. Investing in Africa's agriculture should be part of our overall aid for sustainable development. The scale of humanitarian crises must be met. The challenge will be to match these with long-term efforts to break evil circles and to prevent new wars and crises. Then a feminist foreign policy is not enough. This calls for a foreign policy for global and sustainable development.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-340	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for an inspiring speech. I agree with much of what has been said, not least about Africa of opportunity. But now I was going to come back to the NATO issue. I do not really understand what the revaluation is really based on. I am old enough to remember Sweden's first female Foreign Minister – Centers Karin Söder. I thought she was a very committed and skilled disarmament politician. Of course we can say that we do not live in the world of the 70s, but we still live in many ways in a world where the Cold War begins to replay and where we see swelling military budgets. Now we want to join one alliance, but the 28 NATO countries are different from the 28 EU countries, so that in the NATO Association it is a country that is much larger than the others. Right? During the Cold War, the United States accounted for 50 percent of the NATO Alliance's military spending. Today, the United States alone accounts for 75 percent. It is not a question of equality, but a country is much larger than the others. That country has most of the earth's nuclear weapons with Russia. I really have every respect for the commitment of the Center Party to disarmament issues, but is there not a clear problem with entering a US-led nuclear alliance? Is there not a lack of credibility in terms of peace mediation and disarmament initiatives?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-345	Madam President, I would like I understand Valter Mutt doesn't understand. Valter Mutt's perspective is at the time of the Cold War, when the East and the West were divided, when the Baltic States were in the Warsaw Pact and not in the EU and NATO, when Poland was in the Warsaw Pact and not in the EU and NATO, when Germany was divided and the eastern part was in the Warsaw Pact and not in the EU and NATO. Today, the reality is different. For me, Madam President, it is about solidarity that is credible, not only in solemn speeches but also in reality. Madam President, I would like I wonder how Valter Mutt wants to ensure that the Baltic states believe in Swedish solidarity. Does Valter Mutt and the Government guarantee that Sweden will also provide military support in the event of the accident? That is an important clarification I would like to hear. Madam President, I would like I hear the fear of the United States. The U.S. terror is shining around Valter Mutt. But we should not build our security policy on fear and fear, but on credibility, transparency and clarity. Sweden cooperates with NATO. The Centers hope that the government will present the host country agreement even if Valter Mutt does not hope for it. There is much to do, but Sweden is not credible in its security policy when we do not dare to guarantee our neighbours protection also military if the accident is there.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-349	Madam President, I would like The fear of the United States shines and so on! It's not like that. I mention things that William Perry, US Secretary of Defense for many years in the 1990s, mentions in the article I read in The Economist. He warns that the United States is developing uniquely dangerous weapons. It is a new type of cruise missiles that can be loaded with both conventional weapons and nuclear weapons. I'm in good company. I mentioned in a previous change of line that Norway is fighting for nuclear disarmament, but when Norway voted in the UN General Assembly it abstained. It is precisely because a NATO country does not have the same freedom on the vital issues of nuclear disarmament as a military non-aligned state. I think that equation is simple. That has not changed much since the days of the Cold War.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-351	Madam President, I would like Once again, there is a talking silence on my questions. Does the Green Party guarantee that Sweden will also provide military support if required in the Baltic States? There is silence on that question. Madam President, I would like Dare to show courage, too, by joining NATO. Dare to show what Norway is doing, that is, the courage to stand up for disarmament also as a NATO member. Madam President, I would like We are convinced that if Sweden, Finland, Norway, Denmark and Iceland together are NATO members and sit at the table, all with one voice, it will contribute to developing NATO for the future and to disarmament when conditions exist in the world. We hope, of course, that it will not be too far away in time.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-354	Madam President, I would like Sweden is facing a foreign policy choice. Should Sweden conduct a consistent and courageous foreign policy based on clear values, or should it be a country that silences when it blows counterwind and compromises on its values when they threaten export trade, strategic alliances or the good atmosphere under the chandeliers? Where Sweden stood during the eight long years of bourgeois government was evident. Sweden was represented by a foreign minister who never even tried to wash off the oil stains on his jacket team. The rights of women, girls and LGBT people shone with their absence on the foreign policy agenda. And the proud words of this House about freedom and democracy were quickly forgotten when the bourgeoisie had the chance to sell weapons systems in Saudi Arabia or when the crimes were committed by the United States or its allies. When Margot Wallström took office as Foreign Minister and promised a feminist foreign policy, a hope was born that the change of government would also mean a shift towards a more value-driven foreign policy. The hopes were reinforced when the government recognised Palestine, spoke plainly about the dictatorship in Riyadh and finally terminated the military cooperation agreement with Saudi Arabia. When Mrs Wallström has translated the rhetoric of feminist foreign policy into concrete initiatives, it has rightly been praised – also far beyond our country's borders. But there is also another aspect of the government's foreign policy. Promises of recognition of Western Sahara have been betrayed. Cooperation with NATO is rapidly deepening and the credibility of military alliance freedom is being eroded. Swedish arms exports to dictatorships continue. The Minister of Industry goes in shuttle traffic to oppressor regimes to heel Swedish goods. Here, foreign policy has been more coloured by Bildt's cynicism than by Wallström's feminism. The government is now facing foreign policy choices. It is difficult to claim with credibility that it is a feminist voice in the world while Sweden sells surveillance systems to the dictatorship of the United Arab Emirates. It is not possible to be both a force for peace in the world and to conclude a host country agreement with NATO. And Damberg's export offensive in Tehran, Riyadh and Beijing is clearly in conflict with Wallström's rhetoric on human rights. Madam President, I would like In few areas, this foreign policy approach to Turkey is as clear as the government approach. Since last summer, developments in Turkey have clearly gone in the wrong direction. Over 400 of the offices of the opposition party HDP have been attacked. Thousands of oppositionists, journalists, academics and activists have been imprisoned. A number of cities have introduced a state of emergency and a curfew, preventing citizens' access to water, electricity and health care. The central parts of the million-dollar city of Diyarbakhār have turned into a war zone. So far, far more than 300 civilians have been killed. This is happening in a European country, in a country that is in a process of becoming a member of the EU. Now our values are being tested. Now the proud words are being tested. If we are serious about the rhetoric about democracy, about human rights and about peace and freedom, the EU and Sweden must now speak out clearly about developments in Turkey. We must demand the cessation of violence against civilians, the release of all prisoners on political grounds and the respect of fundamental human rights by the Ankara Government. Madam President, I would like Now that the need is greatest for a world that stands up for democracy and human rights in Turkey, the voice of the European Union has been silenced. And I must say that the Swedish Government has not managed to live up to the proud statements about democracy and human rights in its foreign policy declarations. On 29 November, the EU and Turkey held a joint summit. Despite violence and increasing abuse in Turkey, the EU chose to promise visa facilitation and to open more chapters in Turkey's membership negotiations. In addition, EUR 3 billion was promised for Turkey to prevent refugees from entering the Union. Of these, Sweden will contribute SEK 700 million. It has clearly become so important to persuade Turkey to stop refugees from crossing the Mediterranean into the EU that the EU is prepared to compromise on human rights. Human rights organisations have criticised this agreement. Amnesty already reported in December that Turkey is using EU support to lock refugees in detention camps and force refugees to return to war Syria. It is therefore not enough that the EU has chosen to turn a blind eye to violence against civilians and the increasingly serious violations of human rights in recent months. With the EU's and Sweden's billion-dollar support to Ankara, there is a great risk that we will contribute to further human rights violations. If Sweden had really wanted to protect the refugees who are in Turkey, the best way would have been to use these resources instead to further strengthen the work of the UN. Madam President, I would like The government has repeatedly reiterated that the EU's relationship with its neighbourhood should be based on a more-for-more principle. Democratic progress will be rewarded with enhanced cooperation. As far as Turkey is concerned, however, it is clearly a completely different principle: more for less. What we have seen, of course, is that the increasingly authoritarian rule of Erdoa has been rewarded on a point-by-point basis. The government has not implemented the decision taken by the Riksdag to recognise the genocide of 1915 on Armenians, Assyrians, Syrians, Chaldeans and Pontic Greeks in the then Ottoman Empire. Mikael Damberg has – of course – identified Turkey as one of the most prioritised countries in the government's export strategy. And now, as I said, 700 million will be paid to Ankara to prevent people fleeing from seeking refuge in Europe. It is not difficult to see the signal this sends to President Erdo中an and to the people of Turkey who are fighting for another development, for democracy and human rights and for peace. Now Mrs Wallström and the government need to make their choice. Does the proud rhetoric in today's foreign policy debate also apply to Sweden's relations with Turkey? Then there is a need to speak out clearly about the growing authoritarianism of Erdoa, to consistently criticise human rights violations in Turkey and to freeze payments to Turkey until the day when Erdo中an and his government respect human rights and democracy. Madam President, I would like The need is great – I would even say huge – for countries that have the courage and the will to be a consistent and courageous voice for human rights, for solidarity and for girls' and women's rights. If the government wants Sweden to be such a country, you have all the possibilities. But now it's up to evidence. It's up to evidence here and now.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-372	Madam President, I would like Yes, of course, the criticism of the policy of Mr Erdo中an and of Turkey's action in the field of human rights and of journalists and dissidents in general is quite correct. The development in Turkey is going very wrong. But, Madam President, I did not really ask for a reply because of this, but I thought: perhaps here I can get answers that I did not get in a previous line shift with the Foreign Minister. After all, the Left Party is part of the broad base of the government's military alliance freedom. Now I am a little curious, Madam President, to hear whether Mr Linde can give a picture of how he sees that the freedom of alliance serves us well. I would also like to hear, Madam President, whether Mr Linde can give the answer that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not give regarding the way in which our military alliance freedom contributes to stability and security in northern Europe.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-376	Madam President, I would like It is nice that the Center Party agrees with our criticism of Turkey, but I note that the Center Party comes to a completely different conclusion. The Center Party wants Sweden to enter into a military alliance with Turkey and for us to sign a host country agreement with a military alliance with Turkey. I have to admit that I have never heard the Center Party criticise the SEK 700 million that the government has decided to give to Turkey. But it may come later. As far as military alliance freedom is concerned, the Left Party has settled with the government in a couple of budgets. We hope that there is an opportunity to agree and that we can make up for additional budgets with important investments in welfare, housing construction, infrastructure and climate change. But the Left Party is not part of the government. We are a party in opposition. The foreign policy declaration read out here I saw at the same time as the other members of the opposition. When Stefan Löfven took office as Prime Minister, we chose to abstain. The left-wing view of security policy is clear. We are a party that consistently stands up for military alliance freedom. That is also why we have so clearly said no to the host country agreement. We do it for a variety of reasons. We see that military alliance freedom has served our country very well. First of all, we have had more than 200 years of peace. I think it would have been much more difficult to maintain peace in Sweden if we had listened to those who, through all these years, would have wanted us to enter various military alliances. We also see that the freedom of military alliance has given us freedom of foreign policy. We have been able to be mediators when others have sought conflict. We have been able to be the builders of bridges and lay the foundations for peace when others have sought war and conflict. It is an important role that I think Sweden needs to play in the future, also in our own neighbourhood.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-381	Madam President, I would like It is exciting to hear Hans Linde's and Left Party's criticism of how the government uses its budget, the budget that Hans Linde says he has been involved in negotiating, and he says that he will be happy to continue negotiating the government's budgets in the future. I assume that Mr Linde will then also deal with the money that is supporting Turkey in the EU settlement, whether it is 700 million or less – I have heard different figures. Because it is the Left Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party that are negotiating that budget, isn't it? It was still exciting to hear something concrete about what makes alliance freedom so important. Hans Linde mentioned 200 years of peace. Yeah, we're gonna learn from our history, but we're not gonna get stuck in it. It's a whole new reality right now.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-383	Madam President, I would like The budget on the table of the Riksdag, which was also decided by the Riksdag in December, is supported by the Left Party. There is nothing in that budget about any money for Turkey. There is something about reductions to the G lobala fund. These are the decisions that the government itself has made and it itself has to take responsibility for. I am absolutely convinced that military alliance freedom will have the opportunity to serve us well for a long time to come. I do not belong to those who are nostalgic and look back. I believe that Sweden also has every opportunity in this very serious security policy situation to play an important role in disarmament, reconciliation and in finding ways out of tensions and conflicts. We are now seeing in Europe a tendency, both in parts of the West and also in the East, to want to rebuild old Berlin walls and lower an iron curtain over our continent. There is a need for military non-aligned countries to stand up for another Europe.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-386	Madam President, I would like In last year's foreign policy declaration, I felt that the influence of the Left Party on government policy was somewhat clearer, at least for an outsider. There it was clearly stated that the government would re-establish a bilateral dialogue with Cuba and that this was a high priority. Sweden and Cuba have now concluded a cooperation agreement on development cooperation and political dialogue, at a time when the number of arbitrary arrests of democracy activists in Cuba has increased. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden, which claims to stand up for democracy and human rights, sends the wrong signal through this agreement. Pierre Schori recently visited Cuba and then gave a story that can be found on the website of the Swedish Embassy in Havana. There he describes a completely different Cuba, where, among other things, diplomatic relations have been reestablished between the United States and Cuba and a wall, the rest of the Cold War, has been demolished. The Christian Democrats have been working with the opposition in Cuba for a long time and can say that, in terms of human rights, it is not a completely different Cuba. For those who stand up for human rights and freedoms, no wall has fallen. The oppression is still carved in stone. Mr Linde asks many others here to speak out clearly about how we stand up for human rights and freedoms. But why does one so rarely hear V stand up for human rights and speak out clearly about our cooperation agreement with Cuba?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-391	Madam President, I would like The attitude of the Left Party is that we fundamentally believe that dialogue is more effective in changing, including in terms of democracy and human rights. It is much more effective than insulation and blockade. This has meant that we have stood up to the blockade of Cuba. We believe that it is through exchange that we can influence and change. I have also noted that the blockade that the United States maintained against Cuba for many decades was something that the previous bourgeois government consistently voted against in the UN context. As far as Cuba is concerned, I can speak plainly. I don't have a problem with that. For us, human rights are not compromiseable. We stand up and criticise any violation of human rights wherever, when or with what motives they are committed around the world. This also means that, as the representative of the Left Party, I have raised and criticised on several occasions the human rights violations committed in Cuba. It is about the restriction of freedom of expression and freedom of the press, about political prisoners and about the total absence of free political elections and multi-party systems. On these points we are crystal clear in our criticism. But I do not think it is through isolation and blockade that we are changing Cuba. I believe that we do so through dialogue, and that dialogue will be used to raise issues of democracy and human rights.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-395	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Linde, for your answer. I think that dialogue to achieve change is more effective. I hope that Mr Linde can also see it when we talk about other regimes. The Left Party still has prominent politicians who do not shy away from association with the obedient organization, as Lars Ohly called the Swedish-Cuban Association when he left it. At the meeting of the Swedish-Cuban Association in Uppsala, a colleague said to Hans Linde:中 Despite all the difficulties, Cuba is still a socialist country and there is an awareness that socialism is worth preserving. ..................................................... The Christian Democrats hope that the Cuban people will live in freedom, without fear of a regime that does not hesitate to harass and arrest. It is my party's aim that democracy be introduced and that it is the people who choose. Does Hans Linde share his party partner's vision, or does he share my vision?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-398	Madam President, I would like I fully support the Left Party's view of developments in Cuba. It has three important elements that we have repeatedly laid down in motions in Parliament and through Congress decisions in our party. Firstly, we see the gross and widespread violations of political and civil rights in Cuba, and we want to see an end to that. We want to see respect for human rights and a multiparty system. Secondly, at the same time, we see that Cuba is a country where social progress has been made. For example, one of the few countries in Latin America has a free abortion legislation today. There are parts of the Cuban social system where progress has been made. Thirdly, we also see that the American blockade has been extremely destructive. It has made dialogue and exchanges more difficult, and I believe that it has made it more difficult to achieve democratisation in Cuba. I therefore welcome the opening of dialogue between Washington and Havana. I think that's the way forward.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-402	Madam President, I would like Madam Foreign Minister! Winston Churchill once said that democracy is the worst form of government, that is, apart from everyone else who has been tested. Democracy is a form of government where free exchanges do not end with a funeral. D emokrati is a state where you don't have to worry when it comes to rumbling at the door at night, because it's just the newspaper. But for almost the tenth year in a row, freedom in the world backs. 2015 was a human tragedy. We saw violent Islamists with Kalashnikovs mowing people at a rock concert in Paris and selling Yazidian little girls as sex slaves for SEK 1,350. We see Daish's ruthless Islamic terrorism. We see a genocide of Christians in the Middle East. We're watching military dictator Asad's oil barrel bombs murder thousands. We have seen Arab Spring dreams of popular rule being brutally destroyed in Egypt. We have seen in Europe how the o rbánisation, the erosion of democracy in Hungary, has got its Polish successor. The right-wing nationalist government of the country is heading straight for a populist and anti-European ditch. We see right-wing extremists, racists and various shades of brown growing on European soil. We see a Europe torn apart. We saw at the weekend how Uganda failed again to hold elections without simultaneously imprisoning the opposition. In Ethiopia, which I and some comrades visited a few days ago, there is not a single opposition politician in this House. We know that 125 million girls and women have had their genital mutilations and dreams crushed. We see how Saudi LGBT people risk chemical castration, prison and capital punishment. We saw in October how the Belarus dictator Lukasjenko made another farcical choice and is now rewarded with the lifting of sanctions by the EU. In the same way, we see Turkey's President Erdo中an taking cynical advantage of the refugee crisis and getting closer to EU membership as he throws Kurds, oppositionists, journalists and academics in prison. We have heard UNICEF report on how the unjust and cruel Russian invasion of Ukraine has seriously harmed over 200 000 Ukrainian children. We have seen how civilian Israelis have been hit by the ruthless stabbing of Palestinian terrorists. And we have read the Amnesty report on the activist in left-wing nostalgic paradise Venezuela, the woman who in custody was drowned with water and had electric shocks on her genitals, breasts and arms. Madam President, I would like We know that precisely today, Dawit Isaak has been imprisoned for 5,267 days. And the Swedish citizen, publisher Gui Minhai, is imprisoned in China. We Liberals want to see a democratic world. We are working for people's freedom through foreign policy, aid, trade and security. We know that this leads to peace and progress, both economically and in terms of value. Therefore, Sweden needs a liberal foreign policy at the next elections that stand up for the values of democracy and build security with other like-minded countries. Yesterday the fatherland defender was celebrated in R yssland. Parts of the Russian army marched on the streets. President Putin put flowers on memorials for fallen. It celebrates not only deceased but also future war heroes. Russia has attacked two European countries in less than ten years. Russia is increasing its military capacity every day, and Russia is waging a large-scale propaganda war against the countries around the Baltic Sea. NATO recently revealed that Russia was already practicing nuclear attacks on Sweden three years ago. The Swedish Defence Research Institute estimates that nuclear weapons have probably already been deployed in Kaliningrad. It takes 18 minutes for Russian bombers to reach Gotland. Madam President, I would like It's serious now. We are talking about a Russia bombing the Syrian civilian population, terrorizing the Georgian people and chasing Ukrainian children out of their homes. How will a government, like this one, be able to defend human rights when there can be war in our neighbourhood within just a few years? How can a government secure Swedes' right to freedom without even considering NATO membership? We in the Alliance are ready to negotiate and discuss NATO. We are gathered for the 2018 election. It is gratifying that the Government mentions in the foreign policy declaration that the EU is Sweden's most important foreign policy arena. But the rhetoric rarely matches the practice or the policies carried out. Within the Social Democracy today, it seems to be a Palmerenässans through the so-called independent voice. But the world did not stop at the 1968 spirit of time. A lot has happened since then. EU membership has been added. Our NATO cooperation is tighter than ever. It is also about the knowledge that democracies become stronger together and not solo. Spending disproportionate time attacking the only long-standing democracy in the Middle East Israel does not inspire confidence. Sending Arch-socialist Pierre Schori in shuttle traffic to the dictatorship of Cuba, as 40 years ago, does not impress me or the Cuban former political prisoners with whom I have spoken. Nor does it inspire confidence to reject genuine military cooperation with NATO. In the coming months, the government will conclude the candidacy for the UN Security Council. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has announced at an early stage that everything should be invested in this. What the campaign has cost us in terms of value, we will have to evaluate later on when we meet in this House. Madam President, I would like Barely had Britain and the European Council reached an agreement the other day until heavy British politicians were out dismissing the agreement. It's insane, in my opinion. The Conservative Party seems to have forgotten that the British islands are actually part of Europe and, in fact, cannot be broken off from the bedrock, as Churchill once said, and towed to the coast of Canada. Europe would be poor without Britain, and Britain would be poor without Europe. And Sweden would lose an important ally in terms of globalisation and free trade. There is certainly much that has improved in Europe and that can improve. But the crises have relieved each other in the last year. Sveken against the world's refugees and against each other, when it comes to not sharing responsibility with solidarity, is appalling. In crises, we need more cooperation, not less. Therefore, the debate on Brexit must not result in the paralysing of the EU as a Union. We must dare to move on. If we want to fight sex slavery, we need a European FBI. If we want to stand up for human rights, we must pay financial penalties for those countries that violate them. It's incredibly important to stand by it. One of the pillars of liberalism is that each individual has the right to choose his or her own life. But in many cultures, women can never be more than household slaves, mothers, or wives. 19 girls are married every minute against their will. It also happens in Sweden. We need a feminist foreign and domestic policy. I say as the suffrage goats in Britain: we need action, not words. If it is any part of the world that needs feminist foreign policy, it is that Daish, where brave Kurdish soldiers defend Iraqi and Syrian civilians and save girls from sex slavery. We must be clear about this, Madam President.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-426	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an inspirational speech, Birgitta Ohlsson! Of course, I agree with a lot of that. It feels like we stand in many parts on the same barricade when it comes to the fight for human rights. But it's gonna be a little bit of a problem with the NATO vortex. It was not long ago that a 6,000-page report was presented to the US Congress on the atrocities of torture and abuse committed by the CIA and parts of the U.S. armed forces. Does this not affect Birgitta Ohlsson? Don't you draw any conclusions from the fact that entering the US-led alliance that NATO is can be tricky? It is not I, the Green Party, the Left Party or others who say this, but it is American politicians who highlight all the atrocities that have been committed in the name of democracy and freedom. I never hear Birgitta Ohlsson mention that part of the problem. It would actually be interesting to hear a little more about it. I am thinking of the CIA torture prisons a few years ago in Poland, the drone war that has hit thousands of innocent civilians and that we have a frontrunner among the presidential candidates on the Republican side, named Donald Trump, who says: I can very well imagine re-establishing waterboarding – waterboarding. What on earth! Are the so-called free world leaders to talk about water-draining people? It is an incomprehensible paradox for me that Birgitta Ohlsson hardly ever talks about this too.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-432	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Valter Mutt to go back to Parliament's Minutes and see what I have said about human rights violations that the United States has also carried out in recent years. I was one of those who most clearly pushed the Guantánamo issue when it was mostly on the wallpaper. I find it shameful that this prison has been set up. The abuses in Abu Ghraib cannot be defended by any human. It is incredibly important that we have the same yardsticks for all countries. I also assure you that in the years that I was Minister of the Alliance Government and met with American representatives, I always raised the issue of the death penalty, that it is, of course, unacceptable and must be abolished and that torture in various forms must not be carried out. With regard to what may be the symbol of many of these abuses, namely Guantánamo, I can nevertheless say that yesterday it was a pleasure to hear that the American President announces that he will do everything he can, try with all his might – but of course he has great political resistance – to see that Guantánamo is dismantled during his final term as President. The fact that the United States is one of the world's strongest forces for freedom, openness and democracy in the world does not mean that we must remain silent and not criticise, but that we must be able to be a clear and clear voice. I think that I have been against alliance ministers when I have been a Member of Parliament, when I have been a minister and also now afterwards.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-437	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the mapping answer! That is, of course, correct – I expressed myself somewhat unsound, because I also remember that Birgitta Ohlsson has really fought on those barricades sometimes. But do you, Birgitta Ohlsson, conclude that it is wise to enter the NATO alliance, when we have a country which is very much stronger than the other NATO countries and which is repeatedly guilty of this. One should not be historyless but can look at the Chilean coup in 1973, look at Sukarno who was deposed in 1965 and go back to Iran, with Mossadeq deposed in 1952. It was U.S.-led coups against elected presidents. Some Americans want to see the world very black and white, with the good against the bad. But in long pieces it is the evil against the evil. If you don't live up to your own ideals, it somehow becomes a bad Western roll. I think there are better movies to watch.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-441	Madam President, I would like Speaking of historylessness, it seems that Valter Mutt has not noticed that there has been a democratic president, Barack Obama, who has been running the White House for the last eight years and that there has actually been a huge shift in American foreign policy on this front. We should not be speculating on what will happen after the autumn elections. But it is very important that Sweden is a clear and firm voice. I also think that the issue can be broadened. The countries of the world that are the fanbearers of freedom have an extra great responsibility to ensure that they really live up to human rights and freedoms: walk the talk, that one does not carelessly with the ideals. It applies to the United States, and to the Member States of the European Union, that it is important that we are a very clear profile.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-444	Madam President, I would like We, Birgitta Ohlsson, are far from agreeing on everything, which is perhaps part of the matter, when you compare a bourgeois liberal representative and a socialist feminist like me. Then you shouldn't agree on everything. However, I would like to make it clear that I appreciate that Birgitta Ohlsson is so clear about right-wing extremism, feminism and LGBTQ people's rights. However, I cannot help but reflect on the fact that if Birgitta Ohlsson had been left to decide, it would not have been Margot Wallström who had read out today's foreign policy declaration without Carl Bildt. I suspect that this would not have meant that there would have been more feminism or commitment to LGBT people's rights. Much can be said about Carl Bildt, but he has not entered the history books for his strong commitment to women, girls and LGBT people. I must also say that I very much appreciate the fact that Birgitta Ohlsson is raising Turkey in the debate and, in particular, the very worrying developments in Hungary and Poland. Birgitta Ohlsson is, unfortunately, far too lonely among bourgeois representatives when it comes to raising those questions. But what I do not quite understand is how Birgitta Ohlsson then comes to the conclusion that Sweden will be part of a military alliance with Erdo中an's Turkey, Orbán's Hungary and the new archconservative government in Warsaw. Why do Birgitta Ohlsson and the Liberals think that we should have mutual defence obligations with Turkey, Hungary and Poland?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-448	Madam President, I would like I must return to Mr Linde that, on certain issues such as minority rights, sexual and reproductive health and rights, women's right to free, legal, safe abortions and LGBT people's rights, we often cooperate both in other countries and here to ensure that those issues are made clear. I can also say, if we are going to look at a feminist foreign policy, that it was not that gentlemen like Göran Persson or Jan Eliasson wrote so strongly into that history book either, but it was actually during Fredrik Reinfeldt's and Carl Bildt's time that Sweden, for example, was part of the Global Equity Fund, which is a collaboration with the United States, which was mentioned in the debate earlier, to support the rights of LGBT people worldwide. There we have had tremendously strong support from other Western democracies to ensure that the most vulnerable minorities receive support in many ways. I can also say that when Cecilia Malmström became the first Swedish minister ever to take part in a pride parade in another country by participating in Warsaw under very difficult conditions, she became historic in that way. In fact, I believe that there were more ministers in the alliance government who were able to participate in such activities to support the struggle for freedom than we have seen in the present government. There were distinct gems where we made a huge difference. Madam President, I would like I agree with much of Mr Linde's criticism of Turkey. I and the Foreign Minister had a very intense discussion yesterday in this House, an interpellation debate in which many parties took part – I would have liked Hans Linde to have been there too. There we discussed the crimes of freedom of the press, the horrendous attacks on Kurds, oppositionists, independent journalists and others. Turkey is walking in the wrong direction. But the most important thing, if you want to press Turkey right now, is to use the EU track. I will return to that in the next speech.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-453	Madam President, I would like I must say that it was a brave attempt by Birgitta Ohlsson to try to launch Carl Bildt as some sort of feminist profile. I do not really know how many people buy it, if they have followed Carl Bildt's activities as Foreign Minister and political representative in Sweden. But Birgitta Ohlsson is not able to answer the question. Why should Sweden be part of a military alliance with Erdo中an's Turkey, Orbán's Hungary and the new archconservative government in Warsaw? I have seen Birgitta Ohlsson calling NATO an ideological alliance to ensure liberal social systems. So would Birgitta Ohlsson say that Turkey, Poland and Hungary today are examples of liberal social systems? And what is the basis for the ideological alliance that Birgitta Ohlsson wants Sweden to form with Viktor Orbán and Erdo中an?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-456	Madam President, I would like A Swedish NATO membership is primarily about what is perhaps the absolutely most important task for everyone in this House. We are elected representatives of the nation of Sweden and will defend the nation of Sweden's borders. That is absolutely the most important thing. I agree very much with the criticism that Mr Linde makes and which many in my own party also put forward. But it is important to see that NATO countries such as Norway manage to maintain a very clear criticism of Turkey. NATO's current Secretary-General, Norway's former Prime Minister, has repeatedly raised the enormous problem we are seeing in the country at the moment. So it does not even silence your own voice. NATO membership is primarily about our country's freedom to secure the country. We will be able to continue to do so if we pummel Turkey and denounce any violation of human freedoms. I do not think that a Turkey outside, leaving various organisations, will be safer for the minorities that are under tremendous pressure today.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-459	Madam President, I would like Ahmed wears a big gray hoodie. He's staring into the camera with a look that shouldn't belong to a child. But it's his. He's a 13-year-old boy in Aleppo, Syria. Ahmed tells me he's always loved learning things. But school time is over. The government's oil barrel bombs have killed his father. It's not just the shirt that's too big on Ahmed. His task is too great, too. He's a breadwinner. Ahmed belongs to the 13 million children who are prevented from school by Middle East conflicts. Instead, children learn to count by counting the seconds before the bombs strike. Ahmed learns life through the war. But what does the war in Syria teach us? Madam President, I would like The war in Syria should teach us several things, including what happens when the US leaves a vacuum and when Europe is too passive. Five decades ago, Mr Adenauer spoke about the future of Europe. He said that political union should result in the development of a coordinated foreign policy for free Europe and that the American partner of the Euro-Atlantic alliance should be relieved by the increased formation of Europe. That is a highly topical message. Our world needs a strong Europe. Our world needs a strong United States. Our world needs a working alliance between the forces that believe in democracy, between the forces that believe in freedom and stand up for human rights and freedoms. Our world needs this alliance to stop ethnic cleansing, prevent genocide and fight a growing Islamic extremism. But we're not there. The war in Syria has taught us that the United States cannot do this on its own, and we see that the world is no more than its political leadership. President Obamas's former defense minister Chuck Hagel gave an interview in December, pointing out how Obamas's speech on the red line and the President's own indecisiveness had destroyed international trust. When the United States does not act, there will be no vacuum. There are other actors, actors with a completely different motive. The war in Syria teaches us that when the EU's ability to act is flawed, the world seems to be a less secure place. The world needs a Europe that shows political will and ability to act, not a Europe where we no longer stand up jointly for human rights and freedoms and where forces are doing their bit to maintain the image that the EU is an exclusive club with Turkey as a doorman. The EU is and will be the central forum for Swedish foreign and security policy. Sweden is not and should not be an independent voice. Sweden's international cooperation must not be degraded to what is happening in a closed room in New York, where great powers are blocking each other and do not want to agree, a room where Russia and China voted against the end of the war in Syria and ensuring that those who commit a terrible genocide are not brought to justice. Madam President, I would like We should have learned that the transition from dictatorship to democracy is fragile. Democracy must be nurtured in order to grow strong. The hope that would have been an oasis of freedom in the desert of dictatorship is now gone. We tried, but they weren't followed through. Iraq shows what happens when you leave too quickly, and Libya shows what happens when there is no plan. In the chaos that arose after Gaddafi, the Islamic State, Daish, has created a bastion in this stray oil state. The Islamic State is now attracting recruits from Niger, Nigeria, Chad and Senegal to Libya with a new caliphate. The consequences of this brutal presence are clear. They have carried out a series of major attacks. They have committed an explosion in a luxury hotel in Tripoli and beheaded 21 Egyptian guest workers just because they were Christians. With Libya under control, IS can now attack two continents. It is only 35 km from Malta and 700 km from Italy that the Islamic State is now building its base. Madam President, I would like A new Marshall Plan is needed to rebuild large parts of the Middle East with long-term and sustained efforts to create security, jobs and training opportunities in and around fallen states. There is a need for confidence in the future in the region as well as good forces in Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Afghanistan that can help build peaceful, stable and, in the long term, democratic countries. At the beginning of this month I visited Jordan together with our party chairman Ebba Busch Thor. At Save the Children's school activities in a poor neighbourhood in Amman, a mother from Syria told us that after three years the family had decided to try to get to Europe. The four children had been given the opportunity to attend the relief school. But when the savings slowed down, when they did not have the right to work, they had decided that the only possible thing was to go to Europe. Some relatives were already there. Some had survived the journey, others had not. We talked about the great dangers of the journey, while playing with the woman's children and trying to keep our minds off what might happen. As long as you do not have the right to work to earn a living and as long as children are out of school, people will leave on substandard boats in the hope of a better future in Europe. We should have learned what Hédi Fried expressed on Holocaust Memorial Day: It's not just about surviving. It's about living. Europe needs a new migration policy. Madam President, I would like If Europe is to be the stronghold of democracy, it must also do everything in its power to reach out with help to the needy, to support countries in their quest for security and democracy and to provide a defence for people seeking protection. Europe has the hot spots around it. To the east we have Ukraine where a European country has been cut up. UNICEF reports that 500 000 children have been affected by Russia's actions in Ukraine. Assaults of this nature must never be accepted. It is the children who are the losers in a conflicted world. Ahmed in Aleppo has learned that you cannot count on politicians' speeches. We must teach the outside world that it can count on Europe, that it can count on us. They must not become the lost generation. For this we all have a responsibility.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-478	Madam President, I would like Sofia Damm, who recently visited Jordan – there we have also visited – talked a lot about the importance of help for the neighbourhood and help to enable children to go to school, among other things. This is something that I agree with, and it is also something that prevents people from being forced or pushed to take the dangerous journeys across the Mediterranean. But why is it that the Christian Democrats in their concrete aid budget have not budgeted for much more strong support for the neighbourhood? I know that the Christian Democrats have budgeted for it to some extent. But that is far from enough. Nor have I heard a clear statement from the Christian Democrats about what they think about taking 30% of aid to finance an unsustainable asylum policy in Sweden. Can we expect the Christian Democrats to change that in a follow-up motion to the Spring Bill? Or will you just let it pass that so much of the aid is taken to refugee reception in Sweden? Can we also expect a more powerful increase in aid to help the neighbourhood to enable more children to go to school?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-480	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I think that the Christian Democrats show very clearly in the budget motion that we have a different priority than the government. We spend half a billion more than the government on humanitarian aid. However, humanitarian aid alone will never give people confidence in the future. UNHCR and the World Food Programme bear witness to the fact that their budgets are stretched, and we must all really invest. I also believe that there is something that will be visible in our future budget. But to give confidence in the future, private initiatives are needed. It is necessary to link the spirit of entrepreneurship with investors and to open up free trade with these countries, so that Jordan and Lebanon – the neighbouring countries – can also open up jobs. The key lies not only in aid efforts. The key lies, so to speak, much wider than that in order to create hope for the future. We will certainly continue to monitor how we can be more effective with aid but also link it to other areas in the future. The Swedish Democrats and other parties here in Parliament will be able to see this.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-484	Madam President, I would like 500 million extra is good, but that is far from enough. I agree that it is important to support both short-term and long-term. But here the UN has a program called 3RP that has an appeal that they need many millions. They want to help both in the long term and with humanitarian aid. That is why we want to invest a lot more than 500 million. We have proposed EUR 9 billion in aid to the neighbourhood. When we last dealt with the aid budget, all the alliance parties had their proposal. That's why it's nothing. It'll only be pancake when we can't bring down the government on budgetary matters. My question to Sofia Damm is therefore whether she intends to work for a common budget so that we can make this policy a reality, so that we in this Parliament can decide on another aid budget that makes a real difference and so that we can help more refugees in the neighbourhood instead of just making political moves that make no difference at all on the ground.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-487	Madam President, I would like Of course, we should invest in supporting countries in the vicinity of conflicts, but that does not exempt us from the responsibility of ensuring that we have a humane and legally secure reception of people who have fled to our country. We must be able to do both. As far as the budget is concerned, we will come back to it. At least now we will ensure that we have good aid budgets in the future, and I hope for good debates in this House and in the Foreign Affairs Committee on this.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-489	Madam President, I would like There has not been much about climate issues in today's debate. I would therefore like to raise such an aspect, starting with the government's new Arctic strategy. After all, a large part of the world's oil resources must actually stay underground if mankind is to have any chance of achieving the two-degree target – or the 1.5-degree target or, preferably, an even lower target. There are research reports that suggest that as much as 80 percent would have to stay on the slopes. A lot of these fossil deposits are up in the Arctic and are becoming more accessible now that the polar ice caps up there are melting. The Arctic strategy we have developed in the government includes as a point that we want only companies that can take the full cost of an accident to be allowed to extract oil in the Arctic. It's a pretty good brake. It is also a place of sympathy that we should not allow what happens all too often in the world economy to happen, namely that profits are privatised and losses are nationalised. Instead, we believe that the big oil companies, which are also some of the world's most resourceful companies, should they want to drill up there really be able to take the costs. The accidents could be catastrophic. I know that the KD has an old commitment to the climate and that kind of question, and that is why I am asking the question. I would like to hear a little bit about how you view this to force the companies to take the full cost of possible accidents.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-493	Madam President, I would like I thank Valter Mutt for the question. I was almost prepared to speak about my US line after the speech, but climate issues also certainly belong to the foreign debate. The Arctic strategy will be discussed in tomorrow's debate, and we will all have to reload in tonight's preparations for it. Issues such as oil spill accidents and what the Arctic Council can have for its organisational structure so that it can really make a difference, I hope, of course, that we will be able to come back to. In general terms, I can say that the Christian Democrats have made clear priorities and investments in the budget around, for example, the allocation to the global fund, which we consider to be very important.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-495	Madam President, I would like I thank Sofia Damm for her reply. I would like to follow this up with the responsibility of the companies a little bit, because over the years we have had a pretty good cooperation with the KD. Perhaps a more fundamental question is how you view this with binding regulations. There are, of course, a lot of signs that it is not enough simply to have voluntary agreements that the large multinationals should respect human rights and environmental requirements. To move a little more in the binding direction, is that something the KD can also imagine? For example, it is a question of strengthening the opportunities for vulnerable people in developing countries to prosecute Western companies in the courts of their home countries, that is, in the rich world. Is there anything KD can open the door for?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-497	Madam President, I would like I thank Valter Mutt for the supplementary question. He and I have discussed several times in this House precisely the responsibility of companies and trade in development policy, particularly capital flight. As far as corporate responsibility is concerned, some of our basic attitudes may differ. I think that Valter Mutt often sees the companies as the big culprit and that he does not always see business and business policy as a great opportunity for development. When it comes to binding or not binding, one has to look at the specific issues, but if one wants to achieve a change where binding agreements are reasonable, it is clear that this is also the case.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-499	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. On a day like this, when the foreign policy declaration is made and foreign policy is debated, it is easy to get caught up in the descriptions of misery. That is why I intend to take a different approach in my speech, Madam President, and to take note of the fact that the world is actually getting better overall. Despite what we watch on television and read in newspapers about war, famine, flight and other misery, the world overall is getting better. For that reason, let us not forget the problems that exist in the world. We have to work with them. But let us seek hope in the positive that we have actually achieved in the world! In Myanmar/ Burma, democratisation has begun. In Cuba, not only does the ice melt in the rum-and-cola, but the political ice is also starting to come loose. In Tunisia, the green revolution is arduously advancing, and the democratisation process has even been awarded the Nobel Prize. In Tanzania, work is now beginning to build up social security systems to support over 1 million households. This work takes place with Swedish aid money, which has been invested in this. The UN is now activating itself for the self-evident right of the Sahrawi people to self-determination. In Paris, a global climate agreement was concluded at the end of last year, and last year in New York, an agreement was concluded on sustainable development goals – what we call the 2030 Agenda. We can see that today, compared to 20 to 25 years ago, there are more people in the world who have a job. Fewer people are starving, and more are going to school — boys and, above all, girls. There are fewer armed conflicts, but unfortunately the development over the last ten years has been such that the number of deaths in the remaining and rising armed conflicts has increased. More and more people in the world live in democracies and have their right to vote and their right to express themselves freely. Overall, Madam President, it is a world that has actually improved over the last 20 to 25 years. Sweden's task in the world is to contribute to and strengthen the positive development. We can and shall do so on the basis of our military alliance freedom, our 100-year tradition of democracy, our 200-year-old peace and our 250-year-old freedom of the press. We in Sweden have a good foundation to stand on in our international and global work. That is the basis on which we are working globally for democracy, justice, rights, peace and prosperity. Madam President, I would like I am proud of Sweden, this sparsely populated, elongated country far up in the north where the coniferous forest belt spreads – this country where the night and darkness extend so far in winter and where the day and light extend so far in summer. So dark in the winter, so bright in the summer, but all year round a hope and a light in the dark for the poor and oppressed of the world. That takes Sweden, Madam President, I am proud of and want as a basis for our continued international commitment.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-507	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share the view expressed here by Kenneth G Forslund – things are getting better in the world, in that things have always improved, in any case for the last 500 years. The economy has grown in the world. We have managed to deal with epidemics as well as more severe ailments. Our health is getting better, and we probably achieved almost all of the Millennium Goals, if I don't remember wrong. But I think it is very important, Madam President, that we are aware of the incredibly great political risks we face now and do not wave them away. It may be that in six months we wake up and Donald Trump is President of the United States, Vladimir Putin is President of Russia, Marine Le Pen is President of France, Tayyip Erdo is still President of Turkey, Asad is still in Syria and so on. That brings us to what is at the core: democracy must be won for every generation. We must never forget this and wave it away with simple, generally optimistic proposals.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-509	Madam President, I would like I assume that Fredrik Malm will return to some question in his second reply. Fredrik Malm points out that, from a 500-year perspective, everything has improved. Now I didn't take a 500-year perspective. I took a 20 - 25 - year perspective. It could possibly be extended to 30 years. Nevertheless, the world as a whole has made substantial progress over the last few decades. When dealing with the misery that undeniably characterises our world, I think it is important to have this with us in order not to lose faith and hope that it is possible to build a better world, because it is when we lose faith and hope that extremism grows and the simple, fast and dangerous solutions get increased support among people.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-512	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, it is important that we do not get caught up in the routine description that everything is just getting better, because it is not getting better right now. The political development of the world is in one of its absolutely darkest events right now, if we compare with the last 20 to 30 years. When I became politically involved, Boris Jeltsin was president of Russia. Today it is Vladimir Putin. When I was engaged politically, they looked forward and saw that there was an opportunity after the fall of the Cold War. Pinochet was gone, apartheid had disappeared, Taiwan had emerged as the first Chinese democracy and so on. That was a completely different optimism in the world 20 years ago than it is now. It brings us back to the fundamental question, perhaps the most worn-out cliché of all, that democracy must be won for every generation. There is a risk that we will forget it if we only have a general view that everything is getting better all the time. Then there is the risk that we will not see the enormous challenges we face.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-515	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I still did not understand any question in Fredrik Malm's line. I agree that democracy must be won by every generation. But I do not agree with Fredrik Malm when he says that the world is only getting worse right now, because we actually have a double development. It is going the wrong way on some parts of this planet, while on other parts of the planet it is moving in the right direction. Things are moving in the right direction in K-uba, Myanmar and Tanzania, for example. There are small steps forward for people to get to the point where they can live in the democracy and freedom that both me and Fredrik Malm stand up for, celebrate and want the whole world's people to share.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-517	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Kenneth G. Forslund, who may be about hope and light. I am thinking of freedom of expression and of the press. It sees dark times today. I would like to hear a comment from Kenneth G. Forslund on this. I refer to today's radio news, where it was clearly said that in China the media are now going to convey the politics, news and visions of the state. It was another feature about Iran and two young heavy-rockers, 21 and 23 years old, who have been imprisoned on the grounds that they pose a threat to the regime. I think this is extremely serious. It is about freedom of expression and press, not in Sweden but around the world. We have an obligation and a responsibility in a country where freedom of print and expression is 250 years old to work and work internationally for it to exist.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-520	Madam President, I would like I share Margareta Cederfelt's concern about how the lack of freedom of the press tends to spread. Margareta Cederfelt mentioned China and Iran. Unfortunately, we can add countries to the list that is much closer to us. We are seeing worrying developments even in a number of EU Member States in terms of freedom of the press and freedom of expression and freedom of the press. It is therefore important that Sweden, which is celebrating its 250th anniversary of freedom of the press this year, stands up for freedom of the press and points to the benefits and benefits of this for building democracy and prosperity. Just as Fredrik Malm in the previous shift here pointed out that democracy must be won by every generation, I believe that freedom of the press must also be defended by every generation. We can never take it for granted and of course. We must always be prepared to stand up for it and fight for it.
i-WXvAAZE8FoZSYBaB4CdXop	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Kenneth Forslund. Then I understand Kenneth G. Forslund's reply as saying that the government will use its mandate within the EU, the UN and other organisations to actively work for freedom of expression and press. Let me give you another example, Turkey with over 100 000 closed websites on the Internet. This, of course, is not acceptable. This is not how it's supposed to happen. Sweden can, if Sweden wishes, highlight these issues – it is extremely important – in the political assemblies where Sweden operates. Will that happen?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-526	Madam President, I would like This takes place in all the contacts that Sweden has with countries that violate freedom of expression, human rights and democracy and that apply the death penalty. Whether it is a Social Democratic-led government or a moderate-led government, Sweden is consistent in this, and it is important that we are. As a result, we enjoy respect even among those we criticize for being just consistent. It is not only that we are consistent regardless of which government is currently in charge of Sweden, but we are also consistent in our criticism of human rights violations, regardless of who is committing them. It also brings respect. We all have a responsibility to continue this work from all parties in this Parliament, and I can assure you that Sweden and the current government continue that work.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-528	Madam President, I would like Swedish foreign policy is characterised by a great consensus, and this has been the case for a long time. We stand up for important values, human rights, sexual and reproductive health and rights, LGBT rights, freedom of expression, journalists' opportunities to exercise their profession and a fundamental positive view of democratic and inclusive leadership with a balanced view of the role of the institutions. We stand up for order and choose dialogue over conflict and confrontation. And today, in this debate, is the day of the year when we are most at odds. The consensus is important in order to be able to rule responsibly with the support of a majority in the Swedish parliament but also in order to be able to rule with the support of a minority or, as now, with the support of a very weak minority in the Riksdag. As a constructive opposition, it is important that the Swedish line lasts over time and that we do not back down. We'll take care of that. The world does not lack challenges. Conflicts, climate change and diseases such as HIV, Zikavirus and Ebola affect people, regions and countries. Sweden is trying to help the world get better through trade, diplomacy and aid. Part of Sweden's foreign engagement is about conflict prevention and peace building. It's tricky, fragile, slow and hard to measure. The majority of men are still involved in the processes. The opposite is our contribution to vaccines and medicine in the world. It is relatively simple, stable, fast and measurable, and it mainly involves women. Support for the vaccine alliance Gavi and the Global Fund against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria is an important part of our development policy. The effect is clear. Young children no longer die from preventable diseases. It builds resilience on several levels and strengthens communities. Diseases that are health threats in poor countries can be prevented and treated. Some diseases can even be eradicated. The resources are never enough when it comes to aid, although Sweden as a country is a major donor and will continue to be so. Aid also has a great deal of support in Sweden, especially humanitarian aid and especially when we see how the world is burning every day. The world around us is changing, and humanitarian disasters are going on for a long time. Aid faces major challenges. The whole global aid system needs to be improved. It is about coordination, increased efficiency, new forms of financing and better linking clean crisis management, i.e. humanitarian aid, and longer-term development aid. At the same time, we have to deal with the world as it looks right now. The Government's mission must be to prioritise so that Swedish aid makes as much difference as possible. The new sustainability goals are a reasonable opportunity for a new start, but this requires structure and governance in Sweden as well. As a constructive opposition, I am very worried about how Sweden loses momentum in important counterwind issues, that the government does not address SRHR at the meetings and that the Environmental Party's policy leads to Sweden's aid being less about vaccines and that the Global Fund receives reduced funding even though Sweden has already promised otherwise. This is precisely what matters a little more because Sweden has been an example, and if we open up to break promises, other countries can also do so. This has been highlighted by 159 civil society organisations around the world in a joint article. Added to this is a more than just ludicrous strategy for Syria, the biggest humanitarian crisis at the moment. Norm criticism is perhaps not the worst problem, but rather the development of a geopolitical nightmare. Russian aggression and the ambitions of great power contribute to this. This development may not be the fault of the government. The Green Party and some of its ocial democrats are storming against Swedish cooperation with NATO and are carefully cultivating myths about nuclear weapons on Swedish soil, among other things – despite the fact that we are building security together with others and Sweden is worth defending. There is a serious lack of clarity as to what should apply to aid, not so much prioritising, as the thinking of the development policy platform remains, even if it is to be updated with the new sustainability objectives. But economically it is very unclear. In the autumn budget, funds for reception of refugees in Sweden amounted to around 20 per cent of the aid framework. Then data came in the media of up to 60 per cent, and Sida announced that they counted 50 per cent. It caused a great deal of concern in civil society. So it landed on a 30% roof. The government's decision was that this should be dealt with by postponing already promised payments. But then came information in a press release from the Left Party that 2 billion extra would be added and paid before the end of the year. This entire handling is now KU-announced. But it's not just about big money, it's about principles – like the petty thing about removing the tax credit for gifts now that the world is on fire.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-545	Madam President, I would like Last week, parts of the Foreign Affairs Committee visited Ethiopia and Tanzania. It was a instructive and very interesting journey, especially when Africa is a fantastic continent that it is difficult not to fall in love with. It also has great future potential. Both Ethiopia and Tanzania have growing economies and strive to be able to stand without aid one day. At the same time, they want to continue to have good relations with Sweden and are happy to see that Swedish investments and companies establish themselves there. It was pointed out several times that Swedish companies and investments give countries greater opportunities to get out of aid dependence and continue to have good relations with Sweden. I was pleased to see their ambition to stand on their own feet. Sweden has then managed to create the right conditions and incentives for these countries. It also shows that Swedish democratic policy is realistic and in line with the will of the countries themselves. The Swedish Democrats have a political area that we call development trade. This means that generous aid to combat extreme poverty and to contribute to the resolution of humanitarian crises is important. However, we see shortcomings in today's traditional aid. It risks placing countries in dependency on subsidies despite the fact that many developing countries, especially in Africa, have growing markets. In order to lift these countries in the long term and to put an end to the dependency on subsidies, aid for self-help through business and trade is needed. The Swedish Democrats want to help Swedish companies invest more in developing countries. More businesses and increased entrepreneurship lead to more jobs and increased tax revenues for aid countries. We also want to promote many small entrepreneurs in developing countries. This applies not least to women, whom it is important to support with, for example, education and micro-loans. We saw a clear and good example of this in Tanzania. It is an organisation that helps women who for some reason are not allowed to go to school or have to drop out of school to start a business or have other opportunities to enter the labour market. Examples of activities that already support entrepreneurship are Swedfund, Business Sweden, the Swedish Export Credit Board and the Swedish Institute. This is something we want to prioritise and further develop into an area of our own which we, as I said, call development trade. Linking trade and aid to each other is something that the Netherlands has also implemented. In the interests of sustainable development, it is also important to combine support for businesses and trade with measures to curb corruption and, in the context of foreign policy, to support democratic development in which those in power respect human rights and take responsibility for their own people. Madam President, I would like While we are in the field of development trade, I would like to explain our general view of trade. The Swedish Democrats have a positive view of trade in goods and services. Trade reduces protectionism, conveys contacts and competences between countries and continents and is a major contributor to poverty reduction and prosperity. The Swedish Democrats are basically a free trade-friendly party. We believe that Sweden, both within the EU and international fora such as the WTO, should work for free and open trade and to counter protectionism. The Swedish Democrats are generally in favour of a trade agreement between the EU and the US, the so-called TTIP. We believe that it will strengthen Swedish industry through the removal of non-tarripheric and tarripheric barriers to trade, but also by preventing the emergence of new barriers to trade. The Swedish Democrats take a positive view of the USA's stated indications of transparency, participation and responsibility. Our hope is that developed standards will move towards existing mechanisms within the WTO agreement. However, the agreement contains many factors and the complexity of technical and non-tarrimatic regulatory barriers is evident.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-559	Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament and those of you who are watching this through the television set at home! Thank you for listening! I am speaking here today in my role as an aid and security spokesperson for the Green Party. Madam President, I would like We live in a troubled time. The world is in one of the greatest humanitarian disasters ever. Never have so many people been on the run in the world as now. Russia continues its illegal annexation of Crimea. Tensions have increased in the Baltic Sea region. Terrorist groups such as IS in Syria and Iraq and Boko Haram in Nigeria are rampant. Innocent people are killed in large numbers. Sexual abuse is part of a disgusting warfare. IS terrible acts of terror put terror in people all over the world. Many are the innocent people who have died. Paris, Beirut, Ankara, and the Bamako list can be extended. Madam President, I would like We must stand united, and we must stand strong and act together. In order to do this well, we need to look at the whole. For everything is connected: poverty and conflict, lack of human rights and democracy and conflict, climate change and poverty, climate change and conflict. Everything links together in a chain that can build both positive and negative spirals depending on how we act. Madam President, I would like That is why I am proud that Sweden is the country in Europe that receives the most asylum seekers. That is why it is important that we protect aid at the same time and continue to be the largest donor per capita, even at a difficult time. That is why it is important for the government to spend additional money on humanitarian aid at a time when people's lives, not least women's and girls' lives, are at stake in underfunded refugee camps. We are spending EUR 1.5 billion on aid for the Syrian crisis, where we are remarrying humanitarian aid with the long-term. Sweden has also appointed an ambassador for humanitarian issues and now an ambassador for human rights. Madam President, I would like In 2015, there have been no less than three major and very important global conferences: on development finance in Addis Abeba, on sustainable development goals in New York and on a good climate agreement, which we had in Paris. Now it is only a matter of the world taking these goals and translating them into concrete action. The government has contributed SEK 4 billion to the Green Climate Fund, which will help developing countries to invest and adapt to climate change. This in turn was an important component of Sweden's success in Paris, where Sweden and our Green Minister for Climate Change Åsa Romson, through their important role, contributed to the world reaching the ambitious goal of a maximum increase of 1.5 degrees. The world has agreed on 17 global and common development goals. The government will now focus on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, with which a revision of the development cooperation policy framework will play an important role. A structure for greater policy coherence has been set up in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Our freedom of alliance has served us well for 200 years. It is wise and responsible to stick to that policy, especially now that world tensions are greater than in a long time. Then Sweden's role must be to promote detour and safety, both in our neighbourhood and in the outside world. The Alliance seems to believe that NATO membership is an ultimate solution for the most part. I would say that NATO membership is a security policy, not a security policy. Our security policy should instead be a policy of peace. Sure, Sweden needs a working defence. And we are currently restoring the Swedish defense that the Alliance threw in the garbage can during its time in the government. And sure, we need to practice with other countries. There's a deal. But the focus in Sweden's global security policy should be peace-building. Then we need to play on many strings on our lyre, such as the mix of efforts we have decided on to fight Daish. Humanitarian, political, military and aid-related elements – all needed. Sweden will become more active internationally in terms of mediating conflict, preventing conflict and remaining in post-conflict countries and helping the wounded population with reconstruction. We are going to promote disarmament and decommissioning of nuclear weapons and are now appointing an ambassador for disarmament. And not least, but more importantly: Sweden for a feminist foreign policy. It should no longer be possible to exclude 50% of the world's population from peace negotiations and decision-making forums. As long as it is done, we cannot talk about democratic decisions. Women and girls of the world should not be subjected to threats, oppression and sexual violence. The Convention on the Rights of the Child shall be respected everywhere.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-577	Madam President, I would like It is fortunate that it was the Alliance that was responsible for the budget during the previous terms of office. If it were the Green Party, the defense would have lost even more. You can tell if you read their budgets. It is also fortunate that we have now settled with the government on the defence budget. As a result, we were able to increase the appropriations compared to the starting bids of the Green Party and the Social Democrats. But, Madam President, what is interesting is whether the Green Party and you, Pernilla Stålhammar, can respond to how you make solidarity with the Baltic states credible. Can they count on Sweden to do military work if the accident is there?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-580	Madam President, I would like Again, there are many different ways to do things. I think that if Sweden were to be attacked in one way or another, we would not just want help militarily. There are other things that are included in our declarations of solidarity and that also need to be fulfilled. Then, of course, we will do everything we can to prevent such a thing from happening. It is also a question of not increasing tensions in the Baltic Sea and not adding to the security concerns of NATO membership, for example.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-583	Madam President, I would like I now heard an answer: the Baltic States cannot count on Swedish military support. The government does not seem prepared to guarantee the Baltic States the support promised by the solidarity clause. This means that the government, represented here by the Green Party and Pernilla Stålhammar, obviously talks about solidarity with our neighbours, but means something quite different. The Baltic States must, of course, plan that from outside. It increases insecurity. It increases uncertainty. This helps to make Sweden a security policy risk, for ourselves but also for our neighbours in the Baltic Sea region. That is bad, Madam President.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-586	Madam President, I would like I would turn it around and say that the policy represented by the Alliance and by Kerstin Lundgren with NATO entry – because that is what you want – would increase tensions and risks for the Baltic States. I see it that way. We need to work clearly with detour in the neighbourhood, peace-building conflict measures, dialogue and a policy that is very clear.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-588	Madam President, I would like Dear Members of Parliament and audiences! In my speech, I have chosen to concentrate on one issue in today's debate, namely Western Sahara. I visited the Western Sahara refugee camps in southern Algeria just before Christmas last year. For 41 years, the Western Sahara refugees have lived in the camps under very difficult conditions, since they were forced out of their country by the occupying power of Morocco. It is an occupation that is contrary to the UN and the International Court of Justice in The Hague. No country in the world has known Morocco's right to this country either. The citizens who remain in the occupied part of the country are subjected to systematic and well-documented violations of human rights, such as arbitrary imprisonment, torture, rape, murder and persecution. Natural resources are extracted by the occupying power, and the Sahrawis are not allowed to organise themselves. Right now, 21 Western Sahrawi political prisoners are embarking on a hunger strike in order to have their case fairly tried in a civil court. The 21 were imprisoned in connection with a mass protest in 2010 in the occupied Western Sahara. They are a clear example of the human rights violations that are ongoing in Morocco. Wherever I came during my visit to the refugee camp, I was met with great faith in Sweden and a strong hope that Sweden as the first Western country would recognize Western Sahara and join a large number of countries in Africa, but also South America. But in January came the announcement that Sweden does not intend to recognise Western Sahara at this time. This is not only a historical mistake, but also a great betrayal of the Sahrawi people. It is also a betrayal of the Swedish electorate, the parliamentary majority and the government parties' own congresses. Swedish recognition could have led to more countries in the EU in particular being able to follow the Swedish example. Increased recognition would have given the refined Sahrawi people an increased faith in the future. It would consolidate peace and security and advance Western Sahara's position in the UN. What is the reason for this turnaround from the Swedish Government is difficult to get a grip on because much of the investigation by Fredrik Florén that forms the basis of the decision is subject to confidentiality. Unfortunately, I fear that the Swedish Government has listened to pressure from Morocco and its allies, especially France. However, I sincerely hope that I am wrong. One of the main arguments used by Ambassador Florén is that the criteria for recognition are not met because the Sahrawi Government does not have effective territorial control throughout the Sahrawi region. What Mrs Florén then ignores is that this criterion has not been interpreted in the same way at all when we have recognised other countries under similar conditions. As recently as November, three of the world's top experts in international law and international law, Professors Ove Bring, Pål Wrange and Said Mahmoudi, wrote at DN Debate that international law does not prevent the recognition of Western Sahara. On the contrary, the legal conditions are similar to those that have prevailed when we have recognised Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia and Palestine. Instead, the government claims to want to increase its efforts at the UN. I would like to remind the government that the UN is today quite the case with regard to Western Sahara and that the UN's efforts so far have not been very successful. Morocco is making every effort to sabotage and complicate the work of the United Nations. Morocco is trying, by all means, to prevent the referendum decided by the United Nations from taking place, and is trying to get the world to recognise the occupied Western Sahara as the southern provinces of Morocco. Morocco has blocked the UN Special Envoy for Western Sahara, Christopher Ross, from visiting the country for a long time. It also tries to stop the UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon's planned visit to the country. Madam President, I would like It is of great importance that the Swedish Government exerts pressure on Morocco and acts in the UN and other international contexts so that both the UN envoy and the Secretary-General are given the opportunity to visit Western Sahara as soon as possible. The referendum is the natural instrument for the Sahrawi people to exercise their right to self-determination, according to the United Nations system of decolonisation. A Swedish recognition could have broken the standstill that currently prevails in the decolonisation process and given Western Sahara an increased opportunity to meet Morocco as an equal party. I would therefore appeal to the government to reconsider the decision and to recognise Western Sahara as soon as possible. In anticipation of this, it is imperative that Sweden vigorously intensify its efforts to ensure that the UN conducts the referendum agreed by the parties in 1991. The UN Force MINURSO should be given an extended mandate to include human rights monitoring. Of course, we must also increase aid to the Sahrawi refugee camps.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-606	Madam President, I would like Currently 4 718 230 persons are registered Syrian refugees with UNHCR in neighbouring countries, mainly in Turkey, Jordan, Lebanon and Iraqi Kurdistan. Of these slightly over 4.7 million people, 20 percent are not yet twelve years old. This means that we have almost 1 million children under the age of 12 sitting in refugee camps or living under often very difficult circumstances in gardens and parks and living in overcrowded apartments, basements and so on in neighbouring countries. We can add, Madam President, to the IDPs in Syria or to people who are dependent in different ways on humanitarian emergency aid and who have fled their homes from one village to another, from one city to another and so on. There's about 7 million of them. We have a few million – unclear exactly how many – who are still internal refugees in Iraq. They are mainly in northern Iraq, Baghdad or southern Iraq, and they have fled other areas. In addition, we have 5 million Palestinians who are part of the UN's Palestinian agencies. There are additional people who have fled Yemen, Libya and so on. The bottom line is that the United Nations today acts as some sort of good man for perhaps 15 million people in the Middle East. If we look at it from this perspective, we understand that this is completely untenable. It is already now, with decaying and failing states lying next door and so on. It will lead to a complete collapse in the long term if it is not in any way capable of dealing with this. Some 900 000 Syrians have applied for asylum in Europe, compared with almost 5 million in neighbouring countries and all internal refugees. What can be done about this, Madam President? First of all, what is of course the most important thing is that the war ends. With regard to the ceasefire that has now been announced, on which the United States and Russia have agreed and so on, it is possible that it is a way forward. I am really doubtful about that, because the war in Syria has been going on for so long that it somehow follows its own dynamics. It is difficult on the part of neighbouring countries and the international community to somehow mediate peace. Perhaps we can hope that certain areas will stabilise and that it will somehow be patched up and called a federation in the future. But I find it hard to see that the world can really end this war now. We must, of course, strengthen humanitarian aid. In 2015, the total humanitarian need for aid to Syria was covered by 62 percent of donations. Thus, about 40 percent of the need could not be covered. Madam President, let me point out three more aspects of this. It is important that Sweden, both the Government and the Riksdag, and not least the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, our diplomatic apparatus and so on, look at these increasingly closely. Firstly, we must look at how stability can be guaranteed in the failing states that are still on their feet. These include Jordan, Lebanon, Iraqi Kurdistan and also Algeria and Egypt. They are next in line if this decay continues to spread. It is not Gud's best child who governs these areas. General Al-Sisi is not our best friend. But somehow we need to see to it how the decay can be stopped and that stability can be achieved. Secondly, Madam President, Sweden should initiate a donor conference of the kind we did about ten years ago. It was called International Compact with Iraq. There, the World Bank, the United Nations and various states can be brought together in various ways – not just to have some sort of fundraiser for the now urgent need for aid, but to look a little more forward. It may specifically be that once areas in Syria, such as Kobane, have stabilised but are still heavily damaged by all the fighting that has been going on, such a relief fund goes in with more massive help. It may be like some sort of Marshall plan to help rebuild the areas so that at least some of the refugees have the opportunity to return. The third, I think, Mr President, is that Sweden, as a committed aid nation and with a long-standing tradition of being able to renew aid when necessary, should start looking at how we can initiate an aid strategy for the refugee camps. It is about social, individual and democratic development in these refugee camps, which are not temporary but will become permanent and develop into cities. It is necessary for people not to be forced for generations to live in a life where the UN is some kind of good man who comes with food stamps once a month without schooling, decision-making, education, women's rights and so on being guaranteed in these camps.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-615	Mr President, I would like to In these foreign policy debates, I tend to focus on one subject. We are several Social Democrats who are taking part in the debate, and we are dealing with various aspects of foreign policy. That is a good thing, because the Foreign Minister is limited in time for the foreign declaration. I would like to talk about Burma and the mix of democratic successes and major challenges that lie ahead. The treatment of the Rohingya people, one of the world's most oppressed and discriminated communities, deserves attention. I could debate nuclear disarmament. We did so in the House yesterday, and that is another important area. I would be happy to report on the major change in course made by the new government. We support the humanitarian initiative, and we are once again pushing in various international fora for disarmament and non-proliferation. The government also announced today the establishment of a special ambassador for disarmament, which is very welcome. I could talk a long time about her important tasks. But I choose another subject. I would like to say something about Sweden's candidacy for the UN Security Council. It is a major event in the current foreign policy year. We are therefore applying for a seat in the Security Council, as one of the ic ke permanent members for the period 2017– 2018. Sweden, Italy and the Netherlands are the three European countries competing for two seats, and in June the decision falls. If Sweden is elected, it will be 20 years since it was last a member of the Security Council. Gud forbid we should miss this chance, because then it will be at least as long before we get the chance again. The UN is an important pillar of Swedish foreign policy. It is not the only one, of course, but it complements other pillars of foreign policy. There are those who have made criticisms that the great commitment of the government to the UN would be at the expense of our commitment to the European Union. That's not true at all. These two commitments complement each other. This is shown in the ranking of how influential the various countries of the EU are in foreign policy. The European Council on Foreign Relations has measured one, and Sweden will again be in place two after Germany. It's a good grade, and we'll be proud of that. I am pleased with the broad support that the candidacy has had in the Foreign Affairs Committee but also in the whole Parliament. We may be a small country on the edge of Europe, but in the UN context we have a proud history and an impressive CV. Ever since Folke Bernadottes's time, Swedes have played an important role in the UN, not least the nearly 100 000 Swedes who over the years have served in 120 international missions in around 60 countries. Other people we should be very proud of and who have been prominent over the years are Dag Hammarskjöld, Rolf Ekéus and Hans Blix. Current and prominent persons are Jan Eliasson, whistleblower Anders Compass, Staffan de Mistura, who mediates in the Syria conflict – he is half Swedish anyway – and Birgitta Holst Alani who will assist the Mistura in the country. We are also one of the largest contributors to the UN per capita but also in actual figures. We contribute with a lot of so-called core aid, which is money to various UN agencies that are not earmarked for specific operations. It is highly appreciated and gives the bodies the freedom to act quickly when crises occur. We are rightly proud of that. Sweden's CV will help us when we compete with Italy and the Netherlands for a seat on the Security Council. We in this House may have different opinions about parts of foreign policy – whether the JAS plan is a single salutary plan, how we should prioritise in aid and so on. But that the UN is an important arena for Sweden and that the UN has a vital role to play in world politics is beyond doubt for all parties in this Parliament. We are running for office because we want to contribute our voice for peace and justice and for a stronger link between peace and development. We want to see an increased focus on conflict prevention and a strengthened role for women in peace processes. We want to see greater success in the field of disarmament than hitherto, not least nuclear disarmament. These are some reasons why we want to be on the Security Council. We simply want to be involved in influencing as much as we can in those forums that are of greatest importance. Of course, the UN has its shortcomings, we know that. The Security Council needs reform. Efficiency is poor in some places. The war in Syria shows the paralysis that the Security Council sometimes suffers when it does not agree on a way forward. But the UN is the forum we have, and we must have reasonable expectations of the UN. I would like to conclude with something that Mrs Hammarskjöld said. The UN was created not to bring us to heaven but to save us from hell.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-630	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I will focus on two areas. It has been said very wisely and interesting here during the foreign policy debate, and I naturally agree with what Karin Enström, moderate Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has said. I will start by talking about developments in Turkey. What is happening in Turkey today is worrying. On behalf of the OSSE, I have participated as an election observer in the last two elections. On both occasions, the OSSE called for the escalation of violence and for the suspension of the reconciliation process between the government and the PKK to be resumed in order to reach a peaceful solution between the Kurds and the regime in Turkey. What we are now seeing is an escalation of violence in which innocent civilian Kurds, particularly those living in the south-east, are subjected to terrible violence that should not occur in a neighbouring European country. The wider world has a great responsibility to raise the issue of violence against the Kurds in Turkey at the EU negotiating table and on the international stage within the UN. Violence must be stopped. Civils should not be subjected to the violence they suffer today. Now that we are talking about Turkey, I would also like to mention what happened during the election campaign in the form of abuses of freedom of the press. Four days before election day – that's the November elections I'm talking about – one of Turkey's largest media groups closed. The paper was closed. This also applied to television channels and radio channels. It should not be done in this way in a democratic country. It is important that regimes respect the right of citizens to access independent media. It is also important that regimes ensure that there is pluralism in the media and that they do not try to limit. I would like to say that the time when free speech could be restricted is now over. The Internet contributes to the availability of news, freedom of opinion. There is a tendency for regimes to close websites. In Turkey, for example, more than a hundred thousand websites are closed. However, it does not limit the ability of citizens to express themselves; it makes it more difficult. And that is not acceptable. When I talk about freedom of the press and freedom of expression, I also think of all imprisoned journalists around the world. There is much to do in this regard. Dawit Isaak is one of these imprisoned journalists. But there are many more. It has been mentioned earlier today. Belarus is an example. It is good that oppositionists have been released and that journalists have been released. But that's not enough. It is important that regimes also show a broader front that there is freedom – freedom of the media and freedom of expression. Today in the morning there was a new setback to the free speech, which I mentioned in a previous line shift. China, a large regime that is not known to cherish the free word, declared further restrictions. The media shall devote themselves to supporting the regime. The media shall support the Marxist regime. It's not supposed to happen that way in a free world. The outside world must clearly distance itself from this development. In Sweden, we have had for 200 years a freedom of the press regulation that guarantees free speech. That's good. That's a good thing. But we also have a duty to raise and push the issue, to dare to take the floor on the international stage so that more countries and more citizens are given the opportunity, without the risk of their lives, to express their free speech.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-640	Mr President, I would like to You can play security policy with bad cards on hand. But that's not recommended. In bad times, security policy may be visible, and then you do not want to sit with just pairs of twos on hand. In reality, we're being called all the time. That's why you should never have too weak a military ability. It shall be relevant for its time and shall be able to provide a basis for further rehabilitation in case of immediate need. In modern times, we have not always kept pace with time. Our preparedness was not very good when World War II broke out. On the other hand, we equipped as quickly as we could with the outbreak of war and during the Cold War. We were well equipped and it was until the mid-1990s. Our defense was warlike and therefore created a threshold effect for the protection of peace. War games formed the basis for a war planning where we would have weak links in the chain and no really weak link. The difference between today and today is marked. The defence is now in peace, which means that the chain is not even connected. In peace, it is enough that some systems can produce for a number of hours, for example, how many hours we have fighter planes in the air, regardless of how many planes we have up at the same time. On the other hand, a peaceable air defence as a whole does not work against an advanced opponent in a strong position. The question of the need to rearm Swedish defence has been driven hard by Swedish democrats ever since the drastic disarmament took off in the 1990s. We have fought alone in this matter. This was the case when we entered the Riksdag in 2010. But then came what is called the trend break in the 2015 defense decision. Today, SD is no longer alone in defence matters. There's a majority for us to rebuild an invasion defense. Today, there is a majority in favour of having compulsory military training again. That's good. There is only one missing factor: the defence budget must be substantially increased. In that fight, we are still alone. The Secretary of Defense has probably fought within the government for higher funding, but it is, after all, a red-green government. And that could explain a lot. It is more sad that we are alone in the opposition to want to increase the defence budget significantly. I am sorry, Mr President, but when I listen to the representatives of the Moderates' defence policy, the idea of irresponsible pacifism is put forward. We can only note that, with the current appropriations, defence capacity is still declining rather than stepping up. It's embarrassing. Sweden's defence capabilities are important for the security policy balance. Whether Russia and China form alliances or not, it is clear that the United States will have to balance China and that Europe will have to balance Russia. The roles of Sweden and Finland in the last Cold War may be similar in a coming cold war. An equipped Sweden and an equipped Finland, preferably in alliance with each other and neutral in relation to great powers, can be an exciting factor, a factor of peace. One important issue on which we are going to take a position in this House is the host country agreement with NATO, Host Nation Support. The Swedish democrats have not finally decided on this agreement, but we are examining the issue very critically. I will conclude by clarifying how we have analysed the parts of the agreement, by answering a few questions about the host country agreement which I think captures the subject well. Question 1: If the Riksdag ratifys the host country agreement, is NATO then entitled to set up a military base in Sweden when they want to without Sweden's permission? Answer: No, it determines Sweden itself. Question 2: Can the Swedish government or its elected representatives say yes to or ask for a NATO base in Sweden without anchoring this in the Riksdag? Answer: Yes, basically. I assume, however, that a unity government will be formed if it is a twilight situation. If it is calmer, I assume that the parliament or at least the war delegation owns the issue. Question 3: Does a Swedish host country agreement affect the military balance in the Baltic Sea? Answer: Yes. The fact that NATO may be able to set up a military base in Sweden, relatively quickly and according to prepared procedures, affects the balance of forces. Question 4: If NATO has established a military base in Sweden, does their jurisdiction in the base area apply? Answer: Yes, something else is not reasonable. Question 5: If NATO has established a military base in Sweden with the help of the host country agreement, does NATO have the right to wage war, without Sweden's permission, against whom they want and with the base as support?
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-657	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, everyone. Today, human rights have been highlighted in several areas, the situation of the Kurds and Turkey. I would like to use my minutes here to highlight the Middle East in particular, where developments are more worrying every day. It is innocent people, children and women who pay the price. Mr President, I would like to Last week I went to Diyarbak Цr in Kurdistan, Turkey. I witnessed the war in progress in the city of Diyarbak in Surkommunen. There's gunfire in six neighborhoods. When you get there, you meet military armored cars, tank wagons and military posts in the million-dollar city. I woke up to the sound of rockets and bombs and fell asleep to that sound. I couldn't believe that there's a war going on in a million-dollar town like Diyarbak and that the world is turning a blind eye to this. If we in Sweden and the EU do not force Turkey to negotiate peace with the Kurds, we will soon have 400 000 people who are already on the run in their own area of Kurdistan in Turkey. It was the UN rapporteur who presented this figure to the European Parliament. So there are 400 000 Kurds who are internally displaced because of war and because of the curfew imposed by Turkey in 40% of Kurdish areas. What are we doing in Sweden and the EU? Well, we are helping Turkey to get millions of euros to stop refugees that Turkey has helped to cause in 40% of Kurdish areas. We know that Turkey is playing a power game. Sweden and perhaps other countries have a good ambition. In fact, we want to do something wrong, but the problem is: there is no dialogue and no solution. Turkey plays a power game when it comes to the attitude towards the Kurds, human rights and freedom of expression. If you support peace and the Kurds, you're a terrorist. The last time, there were 1 000 people – professors and academics – who wrote a call for peace. According to Erdo, all of them would be terrorists and would be prosecuted for mentioning this. So when we talk about peace and the Kurds here today, we are, by their definition, terrorists. That is the problem with Turkey. Turkey has also bombed the Kurds in Syria, those who, despite all the shortcomings and threats of the regime, Isis and other militant jihadists, have managed to create a different society in which women and other minorities have created peace. But then a week back Turkey bombes there every day. According to Iran, if the Kurds were to gain some degree of independence in the region, this would create uncertainty and instability. That is why Iran and Turkey must prevent the Kurds at all costs, and this is worrying. The Kurds won't fight if they get human rights. There are no minorities fleeing, such as Yazidi, Assyrians, Syrians and other minorities, unless it is war, persecution and dictatorship. What are we doing in Sweden and in the EU? Yes, more and more business has been started with these regimes. With Iran, it has already done so, and there will soon be elections. There are serious concerns about human rights, we know that. There are summary executions of Kurds, Socialists and Liberals. A group of artists who have sung a song critical of the regime have been imprisoned for life. This is how it goes under the Asad regime. He's stalking his own people and killing people. It's very troubling. This is happening throughout the region. And who pays the price? Well, it's actually innocent, mostly women and children. During the war in Turkey, more than 105 women and several minor children have been murdered. Family members do not even get their bodies out, despite the fact that dead bodies under the Turkish Constitution are to be taken care of. There are even injustices when you want to bury your children or others who have been murdered. That is why it is very important that we pay attention here today to the injustices to women and children that occur in the war in Turkey and in other countries.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-668	Mr President, I would like to In this important forum, the foreign policy debate, I would like to highlight the work done by the IPU. The Interparliamentary Union, the IPU, is a global organisation for the parliaments of independent states. It was founded more than a hundred years ago in order to work for peace and inter-people cooperation. The organisation currently has 167 national parliaments as members. The IPU was formed in 1889 and over the last 30 years the membership has more than doubled, which clearly shows the vitality and relevance of the organisation to parliamentarians around the world today. The organisation's tasks include promoting personal contacts between MEPs in all countries and promoting the development of parliamentary institutions. Helping to build up democratic functions, working methods and functioning parliaments is an ever-growing part of IPU's activities. Svenska Sida is a major contributor to the IPU, and supports a number of democracy-promoting projects and capacity building of parliaments around the world. Mr President, I would like to In the Swedish Parliament we have an active delegation working to speak on a number of important development issues. We sit on several committees and working groups within the IPU. The first Swedish IPU group was formed in the Riksdag in 1892. This means that Sweden 2017 has been a member of IPU for 125 years. The Swedish IPU delegation plans to pay attention through various events in the Riksdag. IPU has also been approaching the UN over the years and has since 2002 observer status in the UN General Assembly and permanent presence in both Geneva and New York. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to mention that the Swedish IPU delegation recently attended, two weeks ago, the UN's annual parliamentary hearing in New York, which is a permanent activity of the delegation. The main theme was global drug trafficking and how the world's parliaments can work together to combat global drug problems, and how to support work against corruption and health promotion. It was a very important hearing where Sweden has been the driving force. The idea for the UN hearing was presented by the IPU delegation's first Vice-President Anti Avsan, the Moderates, who last autumn was elected Chairman of the IPU's fourth permanent committee on UN affairs. Avsan has also been appointed as a member of the government delegation, which will participate in Youth 2016, United Nations General Assembly Special Session, which will evaluate the current global drugs policy and lay down guidelines for the future. Mr President, I would like to Several IPU seminars have been organised in 2015 in the Riksdag with the IPU delegation as organiser. A seminar focused on the global drugs problem and took place in May. The panel involved various representatives in the field, and it was very successful. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention that last spring I sent out a letter to all Members of Parliament regarding the then current campaign for the United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, Unpa. The campaign concerned the establishment of an advisory parliamentary meeting within the United Nations. The proposal was to create a new institution in the form of a UN Parliamentary Assembly which could initially be composed of national parliamentarians, but which could gradually be given extended powers and directly elected. In my letter, I recalled that there is already a global parliamentary assembly in which Members of Parliament belong, namely the IPU. I think it is important to recall this also in this forum. Mr President, I would like to This was a little account of what happened. We within the IPU delegation will continue to work in 2016. We look forward to this work and promise to keep a high profile on Sweden's behalf.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-675	Mr President, I would like to I intend to use my speaking time for an invitation to my parliamentary committees. Europe faces a number of major challenges each. We still have the consequences of the financial crisis, we have flows of refugees from disintegrating states and we have an aggressive and expansive Russia. While we are facing these challenges, we see a United States facing a very unpredictable presidential election. At this point, it is more important than for a very long time for the EU states to stick together. I therefore call on all Members of Parliament, at their meetings with European parliamentary committees, to attach importance to supporting European cohesion. That was my brief call. And quite soon I will be leaving the Chamber to go to the OSCE's winter meeting and there to live up to my own request.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-678	Mr President, I would like to Several of the representatives of both the government parties and several opposition parties have for several years been talking about Sweden as a humanitarian power. Our country has been referred to as an example to the rest of the world, as we have had Europe's most liberal migration policy for a long time. We are called a humanitarian power, as we formally spend 1% of our money on aid, which makes us one of the most generous donors in the world. Mr President, I would like to Of course this sounds good, but it does not automatically make us a humanitarian superpower. I would like to take a few examples. Up to 30% of the aid is stolen to pay for the reception of asylum seekers. The 1% target has immediately been reduced to a 0.7% target, as the money has been stolen from people who are starving, freezing and thirsting in countries far from here. It's shameful. Of the actual aid money, only a small part goes to humanitarian aid or to necessities such as clean water and sanitation. Is this being a humanitarian power, Mr President, when there are over 60 million people on the run around the world and when thousands of children die every day as a result of not having anything as simple as clean water? I would like to highlight further aspects that are, to say the least, topical here today. I am talking about the terrible situation in Syria. Millions of people suffer as a result of the tragedy we see there today, and Sweden should act in this regard to promote ceasefire. The Foreign Minister spoke in his main speech on territorial integrity in international law. These are fine words, but the fact is that the government is to a large extent in favour of those groups that are opposed to international law. In our part of the world, you make the conflict sound so simple. The Asad regime, Daish or the so-called Islamic state as well as the Al-Qaida group al-Nusra are seen as the evils, while the so-called Free Syrian army is seen as the good democrats. I'm so glad it was that simple. And how nice of the NATO-supported rebels were as democratic-loving and secular as they wished! But, Mr President, it is not that simple. In fact, hundreds of groups are fighting each other and the alliances in Syria are constantly changing. Consider the example of the Free Syrian Army. After it has been supported, among other things, with weapons from several Western countries, we know today that the loose network called the Free Syrian Army is in fact also made up of brutal Salafist groups supported by Turkey and Saudi Arabia. Furthermore, the leader of the rebel negotiators in the UN happens to come from the Saudi-backed and, by some states, terror-rated Salafist group Jaysh Jaysh-Islam, which has aimed to replace the Asad regime with an Islamic state. Its former leaders have wanted the lives of all Shiites and Alawites in Damascus. In some places, parts of the old Free Syrian army have joined Jaysh Jaysh-Islam, al-Nusra and Ahrar ash-Sham-Sham, which are far from the human rights that we see as self-evident here. They do not respect minorities that do not fit in with their world view. Are these really the people you should support? In order to remove a regime, no matter how brutal it is, there must be a legitimate alternative. Mr President, I would like to We have been reached by the joyful news of a future ceasefire. The regime is in favour of this, and most groups have joined. The question, however, is how this will go. As I mentioned earlier, many of the rebel groups consist of Islamists who cooperate with Syrian al-Qaeda, which is not part of the ceasefire. The question is how well the cease-fire will go. The most remarkable thing in this context is that the Kurdish secular militia YPG and its alliance Syrian Democratic Forces have been completely excluded from the UN peace talks under pressure from the Islamists in Turkey. This group can be seen as the most effective group in the fight against Daish and has long since managed to bring about a ceasefire with the Asad regime. The group includes not only Kurds but also Arabs, Shiites, Alawites, Christians and Sunni Muslims. The fact that Sweden does not support this group any more can be seen in this context as an enormous betrayal. In combination with the fact that Sweden is already seen by many as a haven for jihadists and as one of the Western's largest exporters of jihadists, the least we can do is to support secular groups fighting for democracy and against extremism. Instead, the government chooses to send assistance to organizations such as Islamic Relief and Syria Recovery Trust Fund. These organisations have then passed on money to brutal Salafist groups, as I mentioned earlier. The Minister for Foreign Affairs knows this. She took part not long ago in an interpellation debate against me and then refused to answer if it is okay for the government to send Swedish tax funds to groups like these. If she's here, she'll be happy to answer that today. Mr President, I would like to The government's actions are not worthy of a country that calls itself a humanitarian superpower and claims to deserve a seat in the UN Security Council. We can do so much better than that.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-690	Mr President, I would like to I asked for a reply on this matter with Sweden as a humanitarian power. If you look at the Swedish Democrats' budget, which is something other than the flow of words you hear from the party, you can see that it is cut. Seven parties in the Swedish Parliament stand up for the one per cent target in aid and one party does not. You want to cut the budget over the next four years and set aside SEK 47 billion less. You want to go down to 0.7 or 0.75% of bni. How can it be more humanitarian and magnanimous than 1.1 percent of bni? It is hypocrisy and kindness played. You've always thought there were too many immigrants here. Now you have found a strategy where you say: We will help them in the neighbourhood. But that's just another way of saying, we don't want them here.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-694	Mr President, I would like to It's a little ugly. If you read our budget, you can clearly see that the Swedish Democrats spend about 9 billion on aid to the UNHCR. Basic for people to be able to have a future worth living in is that they have access to, for example, school and the basic necessities needed in, among other things, the UN refugee camps. The Swedish Democrats spend far more money than the government or, for that matter, any other party in the Swedish parliament on humanitarian aid. We are allocating 9 billion to the United Nations refugee camp. There are huge amounts of money that will make a big difference. That is why we can be proud to say that we have Sweden's most humane refugee policy. There is no other party in the Swedish Parliament that can help as many as we. The cuts mentioned earlier by Olle Thorell are not about humanitarian aid. I think Olle knows that.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-697	Mr President, I would like to I know, and I can also count, read tables and understand them. I'm not trying to hide the truth behind a word mat about imaginary ideas. These are the facts. You are allocating 47 billion less to the rest of the world for four years. You're making increases to neighbourhood aid, but you're cutting the aid by 16 billion. That's a total of 31 billion over four years. Then you can add 12 billion less to the Migration Agency, 30 billion less to migration policy and 90 billion to save in the welfare area when you pretend that there are no refugees. It is clown art in politics that is not worthy of the Swedish parliament or a party that claims to want power.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-701	Mr President, I would like to This is very strange. We, like all other parties, focus our budget on our policy. Is it that fewer people come to Sweden, which fewer do with our politics, we do not have to spend as much as the government on certain things. We have minus zero when it comes to what Olle Thorell was talking about. There will be more to the existing inhabitants we have here precisely because fewer people come to Sweden. When it comes to the people who are actually fleeing, it is pure hypocrisy of the government. The 1% target is not reached. There are cuts of up to 30% in the aid budget. What is to be said to all those fleeing the Al-Assad regime, the Islamic state or whatever? Should it be said that it is more important to pay for the people who have come all the way to Sweden and been able to pay smugglers to get here? Is it really reasonable to take money from severely vulnerable people to those who travel from Denmark to Sweden? I don't think so.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-704	Mr President, I would like to Israel's occupation of Palestine has created one of the world's most tough conflicts. I had the opportunity, together with a group of Members of Parliament in early January, to go on a study trip to Israel and Palestine with the aim of learning more about people's conditions in the conflict, especially in those parts that are not often highlighted in the political debate here in Sweden. In Israel today there are 45 villages with over 100,000 inhabitants that Israel does not recognise. Those who live there do not have a home address but above all public service such as electricity grids, schools and working roads. Treating the Arab minority in this way is nothing more than a racist policy, and it must stop on the part of Israel. Israel must also release the political prisoners that exist. We met the son and wife of Palestinian politician Marwan Barghouti. They told the Palestinian prisoners about the situation. Today, 6 200 Palestinians are in prison. Of them, 16 are members of Parliament. It is not worthy of a democratic state. In order to achieve reconciliation and respect human rights, it is time that Israel released its political prisoners. We also had the opportunity to visit the Kalandia refugee camp since 1948 and its nearby checkpoint. We met the father of one of the boys who attacked the Israeli military at the checkpoint. He described how the Israeli military, basically every night, searched the refugee camp and how they regularly attacked people and demolished houses. For many in the refugee camp, hope has disappeared. The situation is dangerous and tense, and many Palestinians in particular have therefore chosen knife attacks as a way out. Our journey was a unique experience. Unfortunately, it is the everyday life of many Palestinians who live in Israel. They live under inhuman conditions. I hope that Sweden can take another step to promote the peace negotiations between Israel and Palestine. The starting point of the Left Party is international law and respect for human rights. We therefore have no hesitation in rejecting violations of international law and human rights that have also been committed by Palestinian groups. But knife attacks on civilians and rockets do not excuse Israel's occupation and violations of international law. The fact that Israel gates the Swedish Foreign Minister and signals that it will be more difficult for political delegations to travel to Israel and Palestine is very serious. We are in a situation where Swedish politicians need to travel to Palestine more than ever to see the real conditions in place. The fact that Foreign Minister Wallström wants to set up independent investigations into the possible extrajudicial executions is very reasonable. Israel's ambassador in Sweden compared the attacks with Anton Lundin Petterson's attack on a school in Trollhättan. The fundamental difference is that in Sweden the events are investigated. In Palestine, families of the attackers are punished by not being granted permission to travel to their work, and their homes are searched at night to be finally demolished. It is not worthy of a democratic state. Since 1975 the former Spanish colony Western Sahara has been occupied by Morocco. The occupation has been assessed by the International Court of Justice in The Hague as unlawful. The UN wants the Sahrawi people themselves to decide their future in a referendum. It is a referendum that has been systematically delayed by the occupying power of Morocco. The government recently decided not to recognise Western Sahara as a state despite the fact that both government parties Social Democrats and the Environmental Party at their congresses have decided on recognition and that the Riksdag has decided that Western Sahara should be recognised. The EU is currently negotiating with Morocco a deep and comprehensive free trade area called DCFTA. The European Court of Justice recently ruled that EU agreements with Morocco and favourable export opportunities for agricultural and fisheries products were contrary to international law when it included occupied territories in Western Sahara. Nevertheless, the Government and the other Member States appealed against the decision. I and the Left Party believe that Sweden should act so that all negotiations on trade facilitation and enhanced cooperation with Morocco should be conditional on Morocco respecting international law and holding a referendum in Western Sahara in accordance with the UN decision. The Industry Committee recently had the opportunity to meet the President of Morocco with a small delegation. It was clear that the President did not share the UN's description of the occupation, but he consistently called Western Sahara southern Morocco. At the same time, it was clear that the Swedish-Morocco trade is very small and will remain so. Nevertheless, the government has approached the Moroccan occupying power with all due clarity during the last official visits. Hiding behind a UN process, as the government does, is not good enough. The process is basically still. The government needs to increase pressure on Morocco rather than supporting trade, thereby supporting the occupation. Last week I visited Ethiopia and Rwanda together with the Finance Committee. The Committee on Finance chose to go there to study Africa's emerging economies. Several of the economies have experienced double-digit annual growth in recent decades. It can be seen that progress has been rapid. Many people have been lifted out of poverty, although far too many sub-Saharan countries still need our support for a better life. At the same time, the emerging democracies are very fragile. Neither Ethiopia nor Rwanda live up to the demands I make for functioning democracies. Ethiopia is a one-party state that has driven many out of the opposition from the country. Rwanda has a multi-party system, but the public debate and political options are repressed by past divisions and genocide. Nevertheless, Rwanda gets a small plus too much transparency and will on the part of politicians to remove the little corruption that still exists. Unfortunately, that is not good enough when the Constitution is re-established in order for President Kagame to remain in office. We in Sweden need to continue our major aid efforts while developing trade and entrepreneurship in Africa. At the same time, we must not forget that democratic rights do not automatically come with prosperity.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-722	Mr President, I would like to Members! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to talk about Syria. There is a joke that is currently wandering around the Middle East. It could have been fun if it hadn't been true. I was going to tell you the joke here so you could have a background to what I'm going to tell you. Bashar al-Asad-Assad comes to a school just outside Damascus. He gives a long speech for the kids. After 45 minutes of constant talk, he asks the children: Does anyone have any questions? You can ask anything. Then Tamer raises his hand and says: I have three questions: Why is your family so rich? Why do you inherit the power of the family? Why do so many in the army have the name Asad? President al-Asad-Assad is, of course, being asked by such open questions. He's not used to this. Suddenly the bell rings, and there's a break when he says, "I'll answer you after the break." After the break, the children come back in and sit down. al-Asad-Assad says: Did anyone have any questions? Mohanad raises his hand and says: I have a question. Where's Tamer? This joke shows and rings in the brutality of the regime. Freedom of expression is not respected at all. In Syria there is a regime-friendly slogan that in Swedish reads something like this: You, O great President al-Asad-Assad, for you all problems are small. Anas Shala who lived in Damascus wrote last year on Facebook: You, O little President Asad, for you all problems are great. That Facebook update made Anas Shala enter and disappear. Probably he'll never come back again. His relatives don't know where he is. That is the brutal reality in Syria today. Mr President, I would like to The face of brutal reality appears not least right now in the city of Aleppo. The city was founded at least 5 000 years ago, is twice the size of Stockholm and has about 2 million inhabitants. Aleppo is Syria's most populous city and its country's cultural and commercial centre. It is not uncommon for traders there to speak six languages fluently. It's disgusting, what's happening in Aleppo. Bombs that are said to be aimed at Daish hit civilians instead. Hospitals are being bombed. Refugees are hunted in death. In surrounded villages, people are starving to death. Schools are laid in gravel. The war crimes come blows to blows. That is what it looks like in the face of the cease-fire. Mr President, I would like to Daish is one of the worst terror sects that ever existed. The brutality with which they pull out is enormous. We have seen the pictures of people crucified and maimed, and no later than Monday we were able to read about Mohamed al-al-Hassan, ten years, who saw their little sisters beheaded. Sweden was one of the first EU countries to respond to France's request in the fight against Daish. France has thanked Sweden for this help. Sweden's effort allows France to free resources from North Africa and instead use them against Daish. Sweden's contribution also eases France's financial burden. Thanks to Sweden's contribution, the EU is also demonstrating unity in the fight against Daish and terrorism. The Swedish contribution is at a reasonable level. We are making a tangible and practical contribution to the fight against terrorism, for which I am proud. In addition to fighting terrorism, it is about giving people a decent life when they live as refugees. With this speech, I would like to highlight Sweden as a small country that plays a major role for people and states. Sweden has contributed SEK 1.9 billion in humanitarian aid to the Syria crisis since 2011 and in development assistance a total of SEK 345 million, including the new contributions to the Syria Recovery Trust Fund and the Madad Fund. This is good, and it also shows that Sweden contributes to both understanding and peace. Finally, I would like to say that Sweden's contribution to a safer world is primarily through political dialogue and diplomacy, trade and international development cooperation. This is how real security is built in the broad sense of the concept. It is a matter of understanding that security exists only if it is common and does not contradict anyone else's.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-739	Mr President, I would like to Members! In six minutes, it is my ambition to prioritise and constructively express my views on and criticism of the government's foreign policy. Sweden needs the world, and the world needs Sweden. That is an appropriate heading for my approach. We live in a world of uncertainty, anxiety and anxiety about the future. In our vicinity, Vladimir Putin shows the muscles and provokes through Russia's intervention in Ukraine, the occupation of Crimea and involvement in the Syrian crisis. The question is therefore justified whether Sweden is properly equipped to deal with the situation both diplomatically and, if necessary, defence-wise. A little further down in geography, the Syrian war has been raging for a number of years, where innocent people die by the thousands, while hundreds of thousands flee for their lives to neighbouring countries such as Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. After a while they flee to Europe via Turkey and Greece. We live in a brutal world, Mr President, where a human life is not worth much. Light points include new sustainability goals and climate agreements, but these are few. We now see how walls within the European Union are erected on the initiative of the Visegrad countries – Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. Their contribution to solving the refugee crisis is limited to walls and negative campaigns against refugees. I suppose the only ones who welcome this policy here at home are the Swedish Democrats. We also see that, as a result of wall politics, Greece today and more southern European countries will be in danger of becoming human stocks tomorrow. This is a major challenge for the European Union, not for the individual countries. Mr President, I would like to In other parts of the world, attempts are being made to stabilise democracies, strengthen democratic institutions and, through aid and free trade, pave the way out of poverty, a path that goes through economic growth and trade. Free trade, freedom of trade and openness to the rest of the world are a moderate basis for increased growth and prosperity. However, high demands should be placed on our partners in aid for efficient use of funds and transparent accounting systems. We owe this to Sweden's taxpayers. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should continue to pursue an active foreign policy that attracts respect in the outside world. In many ways there is a consensus between the government and the opposition, but there are also differences. We Moderates want to see a reformed UN capable of protecting the citizens of the world. We also want to see a resource-efficient UN. We want to see Europe as the platform for our foreign and security policy. EU membership strengthens Sweden's ability to influence international politics. Mr President, I would like to The development of the neighbourhood policy shall aim to strengthen these values. Our neighbourhood, the Nordic and Baltic countries, is an important base for Sweden's international action. That we have lived in peace and freedom for the last 200 years should not be taken as a guarantee that this will continue to happen. Sweden is a small country with a strong position on the world stage. We must acknowledge that position by wisely managing all the tools of foreign policy to strengthen our relations with our world around us. Mr President, I would like to Following this brief foreign policy exposé, I would like to come to a number of critical reflections on the government's current foreign policy. Unfortunately, during the government's time in power, we have seen worrying signs that the above efforts and ambitions to strengthen Sweden's position in the world in certain areas have weakened. Action and priorities have been replaced by momentum and other classy expressions. The government's foreign policy is characterized by a longing for Palmenostalgia and talk about the 80s of neutrality policy. The world is changing very quickly, and here is required by a small country such as Sweden's skilful manoeuvrability and responsiveness to development. The government has shown an ambition to point out to others, through public reproofs, what is right and what is correct. It may be that the criticisms made and made against other countries have grounds and motives. However, the way in which criticism is expressed has created problems for Sweden. In this context, it is important not only to be right, Mr President, but also to be right. Mr President, I would like to Another point I would like to stop at in the government's policies is that the priority agenda has been moved from the EU arena in favour of an over-belief in the UN as the central platform for our foreign and security policy. This imbalance in priorities and our noted absence from the European arena raises questions and amazes our European friends. We must not forget that Sweden is a member of the EU and is a natural and important player in its foreign policy. Another area that the government has put a lid on is NATO. NATO is a security organisation. Unlike the anti-Nato forces in Sweden that even use lies in their campaigns, my experience is that NATO is also a peace organisation. The long-standing contradictions between, for example, the NATO countries, Turkey and Greece, would very likely have led to acts of war. Thanks, among other things, to NATO, these bad things have been avoided. Mr President, I would like to Today, we can see that foreign policy has a direct impact on Sweden's domestic policy and its society on various fronts. Sweden can do more in the field of foreign policy. The government has so far not been able to make full use of Sweden's political reach.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-757	Mr President, I would like to There has been a lot of talk about refugee policy. Perhaps I will have time to comment on this. Party representatives from the Moderates are trying to compete to close all borders to Sweden. So do the Social Democrats. Has it been forgotten? The Moderates are fighting, Mr President, to close the borders. Having said that, I would like to comment on the Foreign Minister's speech today. One of her and the government's greatest merits is to make Sweden an enemy with many countries. Let me give you a few examples. I think she lacks the feeling of fingertips that one should have as Foreign Minister. First we have Israel. I had hoped the Foreign Minister would apologize to Israel. I'll do it! The statement after the Paris attacks when the Foreign Minister linked terrorist acts with Israel and that it must be understood that the acts are an expression of oppression in Israel is unbelievable. It has also caused Israel to react strongly. A little more fingertip feeling you have to have. Israel has not been content with the explanations but has made a diplomatic statement by calling up the Swedish representative. It's a sharp mark. Tighten up on this piece! As if the Minister for Foreign Affairs was not enough, Mr President, environmentalist Maria Ferm was trying to catch up. In a debate in SVT, as you might have seen, she accused Hungary of putting asylum seekers in prison. What Is Truth? This is what Little Mackay answered. On the Hungarian Embassy's official Facebook page you can read her answer. Among other things, it is clear that there are eight asylum seekers who illegally entered – and were handled exactly according to the regulatory framework that Sweden should also comply with – and a further 24 for violent riots. This is an external border. The Prime Minister stood in the Chamber yesterday and said that it is important to maintain the external borders. Thank you, Hungary, you do it! There are comments that foreign citizens are not allowed to cross the country to seek asylum in other countries. Hungary does not prevent anyone from seeking asylum, but from travelling through the country without seeking asylum. That's exactly how it's supposed to be. According to the Court of Justice of the European Union, Hungary has been complying with the common asylum rules for several years. We should thank them for this. That's what the Prime Minister said yesterday. It is important to maintain the external borders. The Social Democrats often talk about all countries taking on their responsibilities. Hungary does. It is primarily responsible for its own population. You can apply for asylum in Hungary, but you cannot travel through Hungary without seeking asylum. That's it. According to the Schengen Agreement, it is an obligation for each Member State at an external border to guard that border and not to let persons without a Schengen visa through, except in cases where they submit an asylum application in the first EU country. Sweden has also signed on this. What's the problem? Why is Hungary being attacked for doing so? I can't believe it. Get that piece together, too! Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not here, but if she hears the debate, she may be able to come back on occasion. Can she give some concrete examples of how the government's foreign policy will reduce the pressure on refugees? I'd like to know. The NATO issue has been debated. I still have a few questions that Mikael Jansson didn't have time for. If NATO establishes a military base in Sweden under the host country agreement, is NATO entitled to bring forward and use nuclear weapons from the base without Sweden's permission? You can never know, but if NATO thinks it is in the interests of the organisation, there is uncertainty whether or not you intend to do so. Our wish is for all parties to make a proper critical review. We are waiting for the final wording of the agreement in order to take a final position. We'll all be critical. Mr President, I would like to There is talk of giving aid to the Baltics. Yes, we will. But we have to try to think a little wider than that. What kind of support are we going to give? Are those soldiers? All right, the Baltics are under attack. We're sending soldiers. If Russia is the aggressor, they will be in Sweden the next day. We declare them war. Is that what we're gonna have? No, we won't.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-769	Mr President, I would like to The world has come closer in time and space. We travel with ease. But our countries are still, like every family, in each of their neighbourhoods, grounded in thought and cultural compasses. On our northern hemisphere, in the northernmost of Europe, the Nordic countries form a family with deep relationships based on the unique story of the Nordic region. The Nordic family is the world's tenth largest economy. Our neighbours are some of our most important trading partners. The Nordic region is the Nordic model, the common cultural expressions, the cross-border cooperation. The Nordic region is the Scandinavian language understanding, common values of the welfare state and social protection nets, bright summer nights and melancholy winter darkness, historical association and vibrant and cross-border labour market regions. The North is on the wallpaper. The Nordic countries face trials and endless opportunities. The Nordic countries are approaching a new renaissance, if we want and dare. So what's the target? I would say a Nordic region with an open plan and many meeting places. For what purpose? Well, we've built a solid social model. Together we can reform it in order to preserve something fundamentally good and mutual. How? Through consensus, collaboration and association and building on trust. It's about our trust between people and government. In the Nordic countries we can look back on 200 years of mutual freedom and peace and more than 60 years of formalised political cooperation through the Nordic Council. As early as the 1950s, we achieved everyday integration between our countries, which the European Union has still not managed to move closer to today. Mr President, I would like to The Nordic countries face trials but also opportunities. Denmark has announced long-term border controls vis-à-vis Germany. Here we have an opportunity to work for a common Nordic strategy for joint Nordic border guarding. With a common Nordic external border based on shared resources, we would take responsibility for the Nordic region in a situation where the EU's external border has collapsed in many respects. With a common Nordic external border control, we can also see the following advantages: 中 order and order in a troubled time 中 relief for the police in our respective countries In-depth collaboration in real life and a concreteness of the words, together we are stronger 中 the possibility of abolishing our national border controls internally for good mobility within the Nordic region, both for cross-border commuters as well as for companies and trade exchanges. The Nordic Minister for Cooperation Kristina Persson and her colleagues have announced that they are interested in the Danish idea and have begun to discuss it. Mr Persson confirmed at Question Time here on 11 February that discussions on how to proceed with this idea had been initiated. Minister Ygeman has stated that mobility in Öresund must be facilitated in order to strengthen cooperation. It is not only necessary but also possible. We see an increased border police cooperation in Norrbotten, for example. We see that we can work together across national borders and adapt our legislation to common objectives and objectives. But it is important that the government is a driving force to bring together the Nordic countries to a solution everyone can feel comfortable with. Finland has announced that it initially says no to the type of common Nordic border that has been discussed. The Swedish Government, in consultation with Denmark, needs to demonstrate that these are joint efforts with common resources and financial resources. Neither Denmark nor any other Nordic country should stand alone in this trial. I can only applaud that the Moderates are on the train. The question is when the other parties of the Alliance will clearly enter. This is an opportunity for more frequent exchanges of education and economic growth. It is an opportunity to once again move towards an internally more borderless Nordic region while maintaining control of the Nordic region externally. The North's thing is ours, and our thing is the North's. Together, we can put power and concreteness behind the widely scattered motto and together we are stronger and stronger. The Foreign Minister said in his foreign declaration this morning that we want to see a stronger Europe. I would say that we want to see a stronger intergovernmental Nordic region and a weaker supranational Europe. It has the future to do. The Nordic countries are Sweden's most important and domestic most popular foreign policy issue. We can make strong ties on a strong foundation.
i-5c4148c72c223ac9-786	Mr President, I would like to I may be the last in the debate, but I will raise the issue that should come first in every foreign policy debate: how to build peace and good relations. I will also talk about the need for innovation. To count how many times that word comes up in this Chamber every year, one should probably have attended a higher grade in mathematics. But where is the innovation and innovation of peace policy? Well, we heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs raise issues that have been absent here for many years – that we should build the possibility of conflict prevention. By that I mean civilian crisis management. In 1999, the EU decided to build a civilian task force with mediators, diplomats, tax technicians, food technicians, engineers, police officers and lawyers to help build countries before the first bullet is fired. We are still waiting for the EU to build this force. Here, Sweden can become a forerunner. The Foreign Minister also spoke about free and fair trade. This is the basis for building good relations with other countries – ensuring that resources are sufficient and have active climate action. Then we build peace and avoid conflict. That's the first line of defense. We can never become a military superpower, and it does little good to become a little cog in another military superpower. We're going to be a power of peace. What could be better in a debate than ending with some new ideas? Then I'm talking about local foreign policy. It is prohibited in many ways in Sweden today, but there are global organizations. I even wrote a little folder about it. Everyone who knows me knows that I always bring my folders everywhere. One is called Municipal Foreign Policy. But I'm not the only one with these ideas. There are United Cities and Local Governments, United Kingdom municipalities, for more than ten years. There are International Council for Local Environmental Initiatives. When municipalities cooperate, there is no great power that can invade any others who do not obey or feel the same. They must cooperate with consensus. No municipality has any military, but it has to be in conversation. The chance to invest more in municipal cooperation also gives us the opportunity to enter countries that would otherwise have been closed to diplomatic influence. There are examples of Canadian and Swedish municipalities that have collaborated with Chinese. For example, they discover that more democracy in the school system is a very good idea. We can take that up! ..................................................... Building democracy from below is less sensitive when it is done at municipal level, so I hope that we can have a debate in this House on local foreign policy. It is a new way of building relationships on an equal basis. Another good idea, I think, is to have a Ministry of Peace. Costa Rica is ahead of us there. What would happen if Sweden had an entire ministry aimed at building and creating peace? Then we may never need the weapons we buy for expensive money. Perhaps we can avoid the need for them. It's the best investment, and it costs very little. In the economy, we usually talk about marginal benefits. There is a huge marginal benefit here. There is a global shortage of people working to build peace. Sweden could play a unique role – preferably in cooperation with Ireland, Finland and Austria, which are also neutral countries. Together we could build a global resource that is urgently needed. I hope that one day in this House we will debate these issues.
