i-c22af51d676b29eb-10	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me which of the special job reforms from the government has, in my opinion, made a difference, or will make a difference, for those who are now far from the labour market. Swedish growth is currently high, even in an international perspective. Housing construction is growing strongly, investment growth in the business sector is good and labour market developments are strong. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 120 000 people, while unemployment is decreasing, not least among young people, whose unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. The Government's historical investment in welfare by permanently contributing SEK 10 billion per year to the local government sector creates the conditions for municipalities to develop welfare activities, not least by employing more. While we see this positive development, there are still major challenges. Despite falling unemployment, it is still too high and many unemployed have been unemployed for a long time. Labour shortages are increasing and labour market matching is not working well enough. The Government's active labour market policy aims to strengthen people's employment opportunities, improve matching and meet employers' recruitment needs. Against this background, a new learning boost has been launched to give people the opportunity to acquire the skills needed in the labour market. A 90-day guarantee for young people is being extended and the target group for trainee jobs has been extended to include new arrivals and the long-term unemployed, while the requirement for upper secondary education has been abolished. The Government also intends to strengthen additional services by, among other things, expanding the target group to include new arrivals. New start jobs are changing in several respects. Among other things, the subsidy rate for newly arrived and long-term unemployed is increased in order to strengthen the opportunities for new start-up jobs for individuals with a weaker position in the labour market. It is positive that labour market developments are strong, but further measures will be needed to continue to push back unemployment. Against this background, the Government intends to present reforms on an ongoing basis in order for more people to get into work and for unemployment to continue to decrease.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-15	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Labour and Establishment for his reply. The most interesting thing is what's not there. There is no particular emphasis on all those who are far from work. Ylva Johansson, it's not good enough to talk about everything that's good! It's to let down all those who are the toughest. I can understand why the government wants to take credit for the creation of more jobs, but we are in a boom. If the government had been sitting still and quiet for two years, the jobs would have grown anyway. According to experts such as Konjunkturinstitutet and Ekonomistyrningsverket, the government's policy has had no effect or even meant thousands of fewer jobs. As regards youth unemployment, which Ylva Johansson mentions as positive, I can inform you that in the case of young people enrolled in the Employment Service with only primary school or less, the number has decreased marginally in two years, from 20 000 to 19 500. Here, the foreign born are over-represented by 30 percentage points. More than half of unemployed persons were born abroad. In 2017, almost three out of four registered at the Employment Service are expected to belong to vulnerable groups that are very far from the labour market. Many experts even speak of a ticking bomb. Sweden has a shortage of simple jobs without the need for specific vocational training. There are more than three people without upper secondary education at each such job. By way of comparison, 1.2 people per job are available to those in training. Then what does the government do? Yeah, I'd say it does almost nothing. Mr President, I would like to The training contract for young people, which was widely discussed, has given only 1,500 young people a place in school during these two years. That leaves almost 19 500 in that group at A rbetsförmedlingen. Of 50,000 trainee jobs and additional services, only 2.5% have become a reality, that is, about 1,200. That leaves more than 350 000 people waiting for work. Ylva Johansson has not presented any proposal that makes it easier for them to actually get a job. In August, more than 117 000 persons without upper secondary school education were enrolled in AF. Of these, over 82 000 were born abroad. This is a major challenge. The average age is 39 years. Many are over 50 years old, perhaps up to 60 years old. The time it takes for foreign born to get some kind of job is almost as long as the entire comprehensive school, eight years. After eight years, only about 25 percent have a full-year or part-time job. After 15 years, it is 34 per cent, according to a report prepared by the Parliamentary Investigation Service. After 15 years in Sweden, it is 66 per cent who have no permanent job and do not support themselves. This is a huge challenge. I would have liked to hear a lot more suggestions on how to get all these people into work. Not everyone is fit to sit on the school bench. Not everyone can attend a long elementary school after they have passed 40 or 50 years of age. What does the government do to create more jobs? I haven't been able to read it from the answer. It would be interesting to hear what the Minister for Labour and Establishment says.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-27	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we should preferably not have any young people unemployed at all in Sweden. That's the goal we're working towards. However, it must be said that things are moving in the right direction. We have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 13 years. You can make a choice here. Should you spend most of the resources on young people without education in any way getting jobs that will then be low-wage jobs? Or should we try to ensure that more people receive basic education? We can see what society and the labour market look like. The high unemployment rate is precisely among those who lack primary and secondary education. Then the main goal must be for more people to have it. As far as primary education is concerned, I think we agree – I hope that we are – on having primary education, of course. But I also think that you actually have to take the step and say that most should also have upper secondary education in order to have a chance to get a job. It is rather the case that the requirements are increasing. Then that's where the main focus should be. Then, of course, it is not that we do not want those who do not have education to get a job. But one must be realistic and see that the best we can do for young people and also for the labour market, where we have a shortage of labour in many sectors, is to invest in education and training. And the foundation is primary and secondary education. The government has already made efforts to ensure that young people first and foremost receive this education, but also that they can receive it later in life. If you don't have it with you, the risk of unemployment is very high. Now the right to komvux has been introduced, which is very crucial. This means, in practice, the right to upper secondary education for all. We have changed the direction of travel for Sweden in a short time. This has already been seen in terms of more people in work and the highest employment rate in the EU – this applies to both women and men. I think that is a great success. We have a lot of women working. Of course, we are fighting for even more people to enter the labour market. It's moving in the right direction. We can see that instead of fewer employees in the public sector, there are now more employees, and we are going to invest in even more. It's real work we need. It lays the foundations for reducing unemployment. If, for example, we do not have a functioning school and not a functioning labour market policy, we will see unemployment rising. Therefore, I would like to say that the investments in schools are absolutely crucial. It also lays the foundations for working life. The more young people who can go through school with approved grades, the greater the chances of more people getting jobs. It starts there already. Therefore, school problems have been a major problem for the labour market. New arrivals have different skills with them in their luggage. It is quite wrong to say that there are only low-skilled illiterate people. There are a lot of highly educated people who have experience working in their home countries. The government has launched a large programme of validation so that they can get out of work as quickly as possible. We need these people because of labour shortages in large sectors. In the case of new arrivals, it is the same as in the case of young people. The main track cannot be to invest in low-wage jobs, where you do not need education, not even upper secondary education. You should also assimilate the skills you have with you and get out of work faster. I think it has to be said that these are fantastic results in this short time. But we're not content with that. There are constantly new reforms – every unemployed person is one too many. That's the main goal.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-36	Mr President, I would like to What strikes me in this debate is that it is self-evident that is said. Of course, more people get jobs when Sweden is doing well. When we are in a boom, it is no wonder that more people get jobs. But what the Social Democrats forget to mention is that not everyone is doing well. Not everyone gets a job. Unfortunately, unemployment is increasing for those born outside Europe and for those who only have primary education. Special efforts are needed here to enable these people to get to work. I have heard nothing from the Minister for Labour – or from the Social Democrats, for that matter – about what she intends to do. In a boom, it is clear, as I said, that there will be more jobs. But then the question is: has the policy of the Social Democrats given more jobs, or has it dampened the number of jobs? You can look at the Konjunkturinstitutet and Företagskonomisrådet, for example. They feel that government policy is dampening the number of jobs that are emerging. Sum total room: If we hadn't had a red-green government, we'd have more jobs. Then we would have gotten a lot more jobs than we have today. What are we going to do to solve the problem of these people born outside Europe so that they can get to work? Yes, the key factor is, of course, education. But it is also that we get a good integration in Sweden. The keys to integration are language and education. It's really important parts. I would also like to say that housing is not least an important issue. In the refugee crisis that we have ended up in, when there were 160 000 people who came to Sweden, it is absolutely most important for integration that people get a place of residence. I do not mean that they should be relegated to areas where modular housing is built and that everyone who has arrived in Sweden should end up there. Then we build up an alienation right from the start. It must be possible to provide conditions for municipalities, so that integration is done in the best possible way. If you don't have a place to live, it's hard to get a job. I would therefore like to say that the housing problem is extremely important in this matter.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-41	Mr President, I would like to It is not labour market policy that creates jobs, but labour market policy can ensure that we have a better functioning labour market. Jobs are created when Swedish companies can export and when we now have a record level of investment in private business. It is private companies that believe in the future in Sweden and therefore invest heavily and hire. The tourism industry is growing around Sweden. It is about infrastructure investment, education and housing construction. There is strong domestic demand, not least because the government has made it possible for even those with the smallest margins today to have better economic conditions to be able to buy goods and services. This is how jobs are created, both more qualified jobs and jobs with lower qualification levels. New jobs run other new jobs. That's how it works. It is not that it is the Employment Service or labour market policy that creates new jobs, but labour market policy has, of course, an important role to play. The Moderates believe that tax cuts create jobs. We have tried that policy. The reason why I am the Minister for Employment and not a Moderate is that you failed that policy, because it did not work. Just as Hillevi Larsson said, we have now changed the policy. Now we invest heavily in education. Now we are also creating steps in for those who cannot demand and compete for the more qualified jobs. There is an ideological difference in the view of the so-called simple jobs. The Moderates seem to want us to have an economy based on an increased proportion of simple jobs with low qualification requirements and low wages in the Swedish labour market. I think it is a dead end for Sweden. Sweden's competitiveness lies in the fact that we actually have high productivity and high knowledge content in our jobs. But we also need access to the labour market for those who have come here with a very low level of education. In order to reduce unemployment, we need jobs with lower qualifications. But it is not a success path to believe that we for the Swedish economy should have a very large proportion of so-called simple jobs. Katarina Brännström says what many Moderates say: Not everyone is suitable for education. Think, it's so incredibly common that you Moderates find out who's not suitable for education. True, not everyone may be suitable for education. But of the new arrivals coming to Sweden, 7 per cent are moving on from the start-up assignment to education. Is that a high level? I don't think so. Of the low-skilled, those who do not have primary school skills, about 2% go on from the start-up assignment to education. Have we invested too much in education? I don't think so. On the contrary, I believe that there are very many people who are suitable for education and who would need more education in order to be able to establish themselves in the labour market and to assert their interests in Swedish society. Katarina Brännström describes how long it takes for foreign born to gain foothold in the Swedish labour market. True, it takes a long time. That is the situation we are turning around. It is also a description of what has been going on for many years. I shall not yell at the bourgeois government for this either. In fact, when we compare ourselves in Europe and with other OECD countries, Sweden stands up quite well. It is similar in all OECD countries when it comes to how long it takes to enter the labour market. However, I have a higher level of ambition and intend to reverse the situation so that we can get a faster start than we have had so far so that we can thus increase the proportion that comes to work or studies after two years.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-50	Mr President, I would like to This is not an easy task. It's hard for every government. I'll admit it. But very little is the government's profit from the jobs that are now emerging. Surely we have to agree on that. That's what my interpellation was about. Ylva Johansson says: We have changed the politics. That's not true either. Not a single bill for more jobs has come. Both Konjunkturinstitutet and Ekonomistyrningsverket say that there are fewer jobs. We have to listen to it. Then to the issue of education. For example, 20 per cent of teenagers who have immigrated to Sweden have passed comprehensive school with upper secondary school qualifications. So four out of five have not done so. Even more disheartening is that only three out of ten members of that group pass high school. Even if you invest in education, this group will end up at Arbetsförmedlingen to apply for a job where there is a requirement for a high level of education. That doesn't make any sense. The number of people enrolled in the Swedish Public Employment Service who have been without a job for more than six months has grown since Ylva Johansson became Minister. The number of people out of work for 12 months has grown. The group of 24 months of unemployment has also grown during Ylva Johansson's ministerial period. It is true that employment policy has failed. The government's integration policy is out of step with reality. The fact that Sweden is doing well does not mean that it is the government's credit. The group is now growing new arrivals coming to Arbetsförmedlingen. New data from the Public Employment Service today showed that the number of births outside Europe increased by 16 000 in one year, and we have 10 000 more in the start-up assignment than a year ago. We need to make a lot of efforts here. Then it is a bit ominous that the industry has also reported that fewer people get jobs this year than last September. This was also stated in Arbetsförmedlingen's report. It could be a dip. The figures for industry are falling. Output has fallen by 4 per cent in August, and order intake is falling. We should not hope that this is the case, but it may be a downward turn. Then the challenge will be even greater for how to get a job. You might have to think a little bit new. That's what I'm asking of the government. That's why I'm putting the interpellation. When almost three out of four people are enrolled in the Employment Service, the vulnerable group that is far from the labour market does not help old social democracy labour market policies. It doesn't. New proposals are needed. That is what many experts are asking for. Much can be done over so-called simple jobs, but the RUT reform was perhaps one of the best reforms for jobs in Sweden ever. There were a lot of people who came in important jobs – jobs that many could handle. This is the kind of reform that is being called for. They're not very long educations. It's a difficult task. I admit it. I can tell the Minister that you really try in many ways. But take reality more seriously. See the growing group that has a small chance of entering the labour market in the next ten years in something that we can call self-sufficiency. It's a big challenge. Take it seriously.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-57	Mr President, I would like to It is obvious that the labour market is influenced by many factors. Government policy is just one of those factors. But it is strange that it happens that during the eight years of bourgeois power they were always unlucky, and now our new government is lucky all the time. This is to be blamed. The tax cuts were the means of creating jobs. Unfortunately, it did not work for eight years because there was a recession. But it wasn't as deep a recession all along. The big trend break you can see is the change of government. That's where you can see the turnaround. Politics is of great importance. If you have tried the same concept for eight years without it working, it is time to try something new. The results are very positive so far. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years, employment rates are the highest in the EU and unemployment has fallen. It moves around 7%. Earlier, in the bourgeois years, it went from 6 percent to 8 percent. It's definitely moving in the right direction. There are more employees in the public sector, including 13 000 in school. It is important because it gives a job but also because it provides a basis for students to get approved grades and thus get a job. We're calling for housing investments. We have the largest housing investment since the million-dollar program. It provides jobs in the construction process and, above all, housing for people. You can see very positive results. The removal of the reduction in employers' contributions for young people did not lead to shocks in youth unemployment. On the contrary, more young people have got jobs. I think it shows that we are going in the right direction, and we should continue on that track.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-61	Mr President, I would like to I would remind you that we live in a global economy. We had a financial crisis in 2008 which was probably the most serious since the 30s crisis. The number of jobs is not expected to increase when one is in such a crisis. In 2008, we had the lowest unemployment rate for young people. Then came the crisis, and then it is clear that more people will be unemployed. In Sweden, we managed to parry the crisis better than in all other countries in Europe. The jobs have flowed to and have increased. You can listen to the independent bodies. Does government policy provide more jobs, or does it provide fewer jobs? I would argue that government policy provides fewer jobs than would have been the case if we had not had this government. It slows down the growth of new jobs. The government speaks on competitiveness, but at the same time it raises taxes by 40 billion. The best integration policy measure the government has chosen to halve. I am thinking of the RUT deduction. RUT is a very good measure for people to get into work and learn the language. The Moderates want to triple the RUT deduction precisely because we see the risks of many being excluded from the labour market. Some people are doing well. But it's for those who don't come to work that we want to do something. Mr President, I would like to I am not impressed by the government's labour market policy.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-65	Mr President, I would like to It's not easy being moderate. On the one hand, Sweden is doing well, but it is certainly not the government's credit. On the other hand, Sweden is not doing well at all, and it is the government's fault. It's a little hard to know which leg to stand on. I take it a little seriously that Katarina Brännström has not seen any proposals about the more jobs. It is a pity that Katarina Brännström as a Member of Parliament misses proposals on new industrialization, infrastructure and a historically great investment in housing construction. During your eight years of government, 57 housing-building investigations were set up. This year we expect to build 57 000 new homes. The need is great, and we will need to continue to increase. We have put forward proposals for increased domestic demand, changes in new start-up jobs, additional services and training investments of 10 billion. It is a historically large investment in the municipal and county councils sector. It is unfortunate if a Member of Parliament has missed all those proposals. I would also like to ask Katarina Brännström a question: What is it that says that a young person, who may have fled to Sweden in his teens or soon after, is 16, 17, 18 or 19 years of age, who has been denied school due to escape and war and lost many years that other young people have been able to devote to schooling, who gets a residence permit in Sweden, will not succeed in their dreams of getting educated and starting a new, good life in Sweden? Why should the young person of the Moderates be referred to jobs with low qualification requirements? One reason why these people have chosen to flee to Sweden is that they can and can afford to train even if they do not have rich parents with them. One problem is that the Moderates have no answer to any of the biggest challenges that exist in the Swedish labour market right now. There are labour shortages in many professions, and it is not at all only professions that require long-term training. There may be 100,000 nurses missing in a few years' time. What's the Moderates' answer to that? Is it that the young people who come to Sweden should not get the chance to train as nurses? Bus drivers, vehicle mechanics, electricians, scaffolding builders, chefs, child care workers and a wide range of workers in professions that do not require long training. It is professions that many Swedish young people unfortunately opt out of, among other things – I believe – because the courses today do not grant university qualifications. Therefore, they do not opt for vocational training in upper secondary school. The government believes that other ways need to be found, through vocational skills, apprenticeships, adult education, university of applied sciences and in a combination of vocational training and SFI, by recognizing that the education system needs to change as population composition changes. The concept of low-skilled should have a different meaning than before. The education system must respond to that. These are major challenges, but the government is tackling them. I would also like to comment on the statistics. In the case of those enrolled in the Employment Service, you can go back to 2008 to get down to the level of youth unemployment now prevailing. With regard to official statistics, the AKU, you have to go back to 2003 to find youth unemployment as low as now. Of course, the fact that a large proportion of foreign born people end up in the unemployment statistics is due to the fact that all foreign born begin their time by being enrolled in the Employment Service in the establishment assignment, generally on average over two years. It's a good thing they're enrolled in the Arbetsförmedlingen. What is not good today is that no more people move on from there to work.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-75	Mr President, I would like to Ylva Johansson asked me about young people's schooling. Why should they not succeed? It is obvious that they will succeed, and it is obvious that young people will be educated no matter where they were born. But what I read was how bad the results have gone. They come to Arbetsförmedlingen, where there are no easy jobs for those who have not passed either comprehensive school or high school. That's the challenge. Yrkesvux, komvux and everything Ylva Johansson lists is great. We bet on them, too. But they're not enough. They're not everything. Other types of jobs need to be stimulated. It takes job reforms; and that is what I mean when I say that Ylva Johansson has not presented a job bill. There is no reform thinking. It is a question of old social democratic labour market policy. That's not enough. How's the fast track going? There are still lack of chefs and workers in all the professions Ylva Johansson listed. It hasn't been possible at all. It's not easy. I am the first to admit that this issue will be difficult for each government to deal with. But I am disturbed by the fact that the government takes credit for the fact that things are going well. Statistics are also trixing. It is stated in the Employment Service's report today that youth unemployment has not been so low since 2008 when the Alliance ruled. Ylva Johansson stands and talks are back in 13 years. Then you take credit for all sorts of things. That's not true! What answer do you have if there's a recession? Then how are people going to get into work when they're not doing it now that it's booming?
i-c22af51d676b29eb-82	Mr President, I would like to Now I understand why Katarina Brännström has not noticed the proposals that the government has put forward about the jobs. This is because we have not proposed major unfunded tax cuts. They're the only job propositions that's kind of like the Moderates. Then we got the answer to that question. Mr President, I would like to Both professional and Komvux were severely cut under the bourgeois government. In bourgeois times school performance deteriorated, and fewer and fewer young people chose vocational education in upper secondary school. I do not believe that this is solely due to the policy of the old government, but I believe that it played a role in reducing the conditions for moving forward from vocational training. We must face up to the truth: there is a strong demand for labour in Sweden. A lot of people want to hire. That's not where the problem lies. The problem is twofold. On the one hand, the skills currently requested by employers are not always available. How do we solve that problem? It is clear that education is an important part of getting there. Fast track is another way by exploiting the skills of new arrivals. The fast track works and is up and running, and they will help employers find the staff they need. On the other hand, there are many unemployed people who do not have the right skills and are therefore not eligible for the job vacancies. We need to face that problem. There I pay tribute to Katarina Brännström. It is a difficult problem, and there is not a simple solution. It is about finding jobs that the unemployed who cannot compete with others in the labour market can take. There is a need for good entry into the labour market with lower qualification requirements. The government pursues such a policy by reducing wage costs, directing new start-ups and introducing additional services. Education is also important for that group.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-87	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve integration and reduce the employment gap between native and foreign born. In the next few years, many new arrivals will become established in Sweden. The situation Sweden is in involves both challenges and opportunities. The government has identified a number of areas that need to be developed and strengthened in order to build a society that holds together and to counter segregation. It is about more efficient establishment, more roads to work, more people completing their education and better access to housing. Work is the key to the establishment of new arrivals in Sweden. Work provides, in addition to self-sufficiency, opportunities to develop knowledge of the Swedish language and of Swedish society. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 120 000 people. More than half of the growth has occurred among foreign born children. Despite good development, it is problematic that an increasing proportion of the unemployed have a weak position in the labour market. This applies, among other things, to those born outside Europe and those who do not have completed upper secondary education. The education system must be able to meet people with extensive training needs and equip them with the skills required in the labour market. In order to strengthen people's job opportunities and improve matching in the labour market, the government has launched a new knowledge boost with an initiative that has been fully expanded to include around 70 000 places. As part of this initiative, funds are set aside for 2017 for 21 750 places in professional adult and 2 600 places in apprentices. An important part of the government's job agenda is an active labour market policy. In the 2017 Budget Bill, the Government proposes further steps in the rescheduling of labour market policy. The start-up efforts will also be improved by improving the efficiency of the start-up assignment, strengthening resources for the Public Employment Service and increased collaboration for the establishment of new arrivals. The Government is also proposing initiatives on the technology leap, J the obbpånget and modern preparedness jobs in the state. The guarantees and start-up jobs will also be made more effective. The lack of a driving licence is too many an obstacle to jobs. The Government therefore intends to explore the possibility of a loan for driving licence training with the intention of implementing the proposal during its term of office. Several measures have also been taken to increase the employment rate of women born abroad. The government has abolished the custody allowance and is now reviewing how parental insurance should be designed so as not to delay the establishment of the labour market. The Government also intends to commission Arbetsförmedlingen to focus in particular on efforts to reduce unemployment among women born abroad. There is evidence of discrimination related to ethnicity, age or sexual orientation on the Swedish labour market in several studies. During the year, the anti-discrimination ombudsman's reviews of the work on active measures also highlight the shortcomings in working life. The discrimination and lack of knowledge in the labour market, for example, must be combated. It has serious consequences both for individuals and for society as a whole. The Government intends to take specific measures in these areas.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-96	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Labour is very pleased. She is extremely pleased that unemployment is falling. So are we. I'd like to talk to you about that. We are also very pleased about that. However, unlike the Minister for Labour, we are extremely concerned about the future. We are in a boom now, but in the future a recession is predicted. The employment rate has increased since 2010 following the 2008 financial crisis. Thus, the figures have only gone up in terms of employment rates and down in terms of unemployment since 2008. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, not everyone here in Sweden is doing so well. We have large groups who are not allowed to take part in this boom. It is particularly non-European born and young people with only primary education. It is good that we are entering a boom, but the risk is, as I said, that it will not look as good in the future. Both the Institute of Economics and the Swedish Financial Control Agency make a completely different assessment of the future of the government. It is not surprising in itself that the government is making joy calculations, but some both believe that the employment rate will fall and unemployment will increase in the future. At the same time, the government is drawn with continued deficit throughout the government period. The government chooses to lend to expenditure-driven proposals instead of financing them heads for heads. Playing with state finances poses a serious risk to them being furthest away from the labour market. It will not be easier for those people to get a job when unemployment increases. Then it will be difficult for the government to stimulate the economy because the barns, which are so familiar nowadays, are completely empty – in a boom. In other words, we are over-borrowed. And getting into a recession with the highest marginal taxes in the world and an over-borrowed treasury is not good for anyone, because then there is no action to be taken. During 2015, 160 000 people arrived in Sweden. Many have been granted asylum, and many will certainly be granted asylum. The problem is that the current system means that it will take a very long time for these people to enter the labour market. A large proportion of the unemployed are born out of Europe, those with only primary education, the elderly and the disabled. A quarter of all arrivals come to work after eight years. The government will then take measures that have the opposite effect. The government chooses to increase taxes on labour and to increase subsidies. This will, of course, exacerbate the problems of the Swedish labour market. It is not only possible to increase contributions as a quick fix, but to look at the whole. A sound economic policy is needed. A well-functioning interaction where language is the key, an education system that provides knowledge and more housing – it is, I believe, the three key factors for successful integration. During the Alliance, the labour force participation rate of foreign born persons increased from 65 to 70 per cent. It was a policy that breaks the alienation.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-106	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson says the Moderates are extremely worried. We have seen more examples of extreme concern on the part of the Moderates. We saw it before the elections, when you wrote debate articles around the country about the extremely high youth unemployment that would hit the country if the employers' contribution for young people were restored. You were extremely worried. Youth unemployment is now falling despite the fact that we have re-established the social security contribution. You were extremely worried when we were going to restore unemployment insurance to a decent level. You painted it as saying that, now, jobs are going to be threatened; now unemployment is going to increase. We did that – a little over a year ago we introduced a higher ceiling in unemployment insurance. Nevertheless, unemployment is falling. Now the Moderates are again extremely concerned about the future. Erik Andersson describes it as that the current system takes too long to get to work for new arrivals. I agree with Erik Andersson. That's exactly what it is. That is why we are changing the policy. We cannot continue with the policy that could not get newcomers to work faster. We are on the average for the EU and the OECD – so it is not that bad. But I have much higher ambitions than that. That is why we are changing and streamlining the entire start-up mission and giving completely different opportunities for more flexible interventions, training, subsidised employment and other targeted measures. I am not satisfied with how long it takes newcomers to get to work. That's the difference between us. Clearly, one can be concerned about a lot of things for the future. But it's kind of a choice. Should you sit and wring your hands in anxiety and grumpy about how bad it might go? Yeah, maybe that's what you're supposed to do in opposition. I have another tactic. I'm in charge, and I'm acting. We roll up our sleeves and deal with the problems. So far, things are actually going very well and in the right direction. I am fully aware of the need to continue and take further steps in order to continue to do so. Of course, we will constantly encounter new problems and challenges that need to be addressed, not least when the many refugees who came to Sweden last year are going to the labour market. It is a very big challenge because many are going out at once. But that shouldn't stop us from seeing when we're going in the right direction. The labour market participation of foreign-born people increased under the bourgeois government, and it has continued to increase during our government. It is now very high. The employment rate also – the employment rate is increasing faster among foreign born than among natives. The gap between foreign and domestic born is thus narrowing. The increase for women born abroad is particularly rapid, which is very gratifying. That doesn't mean I'm happy. There's a lot more to do. There is nothing better for a society than having many people in work, and there is nothing better for equality than that men and women have equal opportunities to support themselves through their own work. More remains to be done, but it is quite clear that we are on the right track.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-116	Mr President, I would like to As Moderates and in opposition, of course, we are always concerned about an S-government. It is also our task to review the government. It is only good that we have a sharp opposition that examines the government's policy, which we think is largely harmful to Sweden. We believe that a policy is needed that puts jobs first. We have to break the alienation. There will be people who never get their first job in Sweden, who never get into the labour market, and children who never get to see their parents go to work. We just can't have it that way. It is too high thresholds into the Swedish labour market. Of course, a large part is the tax on labour, but it must also be more profitable to work than to go on benefits. The new exclusion is the big challenge, and the government has come up with proposals that I feel are a lot of empty words: the 100-club, trainee jobs, standby jobs. How many trainee jobs have there been? About a hundred. This is not the solution for Sweden. In principle, there is full employment among natives – unemployment is 4.2 per cent. Unemployment among foreign born children is 21.6 per cent. It is clear that specific efforts are needed to reduce this gap. The government's actions resulted in 179 trainee jobs and 1,087 extra posts in August. The number of training contracts is 1,532 and the number of fast track participants is 1,900. You can hear how many different bureaucratic systems there are. It also makes it very messy. But it doesn't agree to show such bad numbers during a boom. That's not good. For example, the fast track can never benefit those with lower education. One might also wonder why construction workers are not on the fast track when there is such a shortage of housing. I've only seen painters present. Today's subsidised employment works badly and is far too complicated. The Moderates have therefore proposed to remove all the red-green mess's different start-up jobs, special start-up jobs, special employment support, entry-level jobs and extra trainee services in welfare or in shortage jobs. We're making eight subsidies one. It must be much easier for those who create jobs: business in Sweden. It may also be public employers, but first and foremost it is the business sector that can create these jobs. Our proposal is simple: it will be a proposal so that there will be no trouble. We also propose that RUT triple, and this is a reform that is particularly important for employment and entrepreneurship of foreign born people. There are actually signs that the government's mixing and trixing with RUT has had a very negative impact on the industry. We also propose, possibly to the surprise of the Minister for Labour, that professional adult and Komvux be expanded and adapted. Education is important to make itself more employable – vocational training instead of inefficient labour market training. We will also propose a premium ceiling, so that only 75% of the minimum salary can be paid in grants. It is also an important incentive to get into work. We have the first job deduction, first job employment and job stimulation in support. Many of these proposals are very good, but they are rejected by the government, Mr President.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-128	Mr President, I would like to I think it is an interesting discussion we are having here today. The MP Erik Andersson has asked Minister Ylva Johansson a question that I find very interesting: why the government only invests in fast track to create jobs for our newly arrived Swedes. One can interpret the question as that Erik believes that there is only one initiative on the part of the government. I think such a question is a bit unfortunate, because it is important to discuss it. I do not really understand why Erik Andersson does not find out what the government is doing. It is enough to go into the government's website, the government.se, to be able to follow all efforts made by the government. You can also come to this House and listen when the Minister for Employment presents the government's many wise and effective proposals. So I think it's a bit of a pity, but as the old educated people I am – before I entered the Riksdag I worked with people education – I will do Erik Andersson the service to once again tell about some of these proposals. Thank you for that opportunity, Mr President. Some of the proposals are extremely exciting and create the future of Sweden in many ways. One that I personally find very interesting and that I have partly worked actively with is the competence mapping of asylum seekers that is now taking place in asylum homes around the country. It is extremely important that when you come to Sweden directly get to talk about what experiences you have from home and what you have worked with before. I myself have been to asylum homes where many refugees want to talk about this and think it is extremely important. Another investment that is being made is a new knowledge boost. We have heard about this here today, and it is a major venture that will benefit, not least, new arrivals. Another thing is that our higher education institutions start supplementary education programmes for people with a foreign degree; it is very important. After all, people from Syria, for example, come here with all sorts of different backgrounds. Some are academics, some are construction workers, some have no education at all. It is very important that we invest in all the groups, and these proposals really do benefit everyone. In this case, it is a foreign degree, with which the university works. Another initiative is the reinforcement of early interventions for asylum seekers, such as Swedish education in asylum homes. I myself have participated in this, and it is extremely good and appreciated. There are also increased resources for the Employment Service's start-up assignments. After all, the establishment mission was somewhat fiasco under the bourgeois government. Now it will be effective, and it will be invested in a completely different way. Now it is a question of conveying work, while the Employment Service under the bourgeois government would administer unemployment; there is a great difference. The fast track has already been mentioned, even by Erik Andersson as the only effort. It's a very important effort for the shortage professions. We also have fast track for entrepreneurs – there was just talk about entrepreneurship. Modern emergency work is another venture. We also have investments in apprenticeships, vocational studies, university of applied sciences and new start-up jobs – with a collective agreement salary, which is important to mention. Technology leaps and Job leaps are efforts to facilitate the establishment of newly arrived engineers and academics. These are just a few of all the bets that are being made. I hope I could help to enlighten Erik Andersson and the Moderates a little more about what proposals are in place and what activities are currently under way. What I would like to ask Erik Andersson and the Moderates is whether they could mention to us in this House five proposals they have to create jobs for newcomers. It would have been exciting to hear. Perhaps it can be a constructive discussion in which you not only try to hide the fact that there is actually a lot of good work being done and doing very well for this country but also come up with your own proposals. So I would like to hear five proposals from Erik Andersson, Mr President.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-140	Mr President, I would like to We have spoken here that it is booming, and the Moderates say that it really is not the government's credit. But it is surprising to hear from Erik Andersson that in a boom there should be a record number of people in subsidised employment. He is upset that we do not have more people in subsidised employment, precisely because it is booming. I don't quite understand that logic. On the contrary, as Magnus Manhammar showed, it is precisely when we have a strong demand for labour in the labour market and a very strong growth – among the highest in Europe – that efforts other than subsidised employment can be important to invest in. For example, it can be regular training but also other things that facilitate the identification of skills or the effort we are now making to make it easier to obtain a driving licence by taking out CSN loans for it. Maybe it's not a subsidy at work you need. The employer may be prepared to hire, but it is important to get to work. In large parts of the country and in many occupations, driving licences are such an important way into the labour market. I believe that this is a very dangerous way of measuring the success of policies with the number of people involved in labour market policy measures. I will readily admit that when we were in opposition and the bourgeois ruled, we had a youth unemployment rate so high that we received EU support. Other EU countries paid for us in Sweden to be able to deal with our unemployment. At the time, young people with upper secondary school skills were also unemployed. This justified the fact that we then made proposals to make it easier for them to get into work via trainee jobs aimed at young people with full upper secondary education skills. However, the other policy has been more successful: young people have got jobs anyway. No one's happier about it than I am. Then we'll have to reschedule the policy. There is no reason to stick to a proposal that is no longer needed in the current economic situation. That is why we are redirecting towards other groups that may need the combination of work and education, such as the important profession of nurse. There are many with the right education, in the future but also today. I would like to mention an example of how to focus too much on labour market policy efforts. Earlier, under the bourgeois government, it was part of the establishment mission that all new arrivals were given an establishment slot. Was it a success that all received the same labour market policy input despite the fact that they had very different conditions, educational backgrounds and labour market needs? I don't think so. I think that different labour market policies must be measured by their impact – whether they move from the effort to work or other training. It should not be seen as a success per se that you are in a measure, but it must be seen as a combination. A good government takes into account the evolution of the labour market and economic situation and should be fast-footed and responsive to changes in the labour market. It's classically difficult. All governments tend to find it difficult to change quickly enough when the changes come. I'm trying to be as fast as I can. Let's change it very clearly. Today we have fewer subsidies for those close to the labour market. We are reducing the efforts that are being made to those who are relatively easy to get jobs anyway in the economic situation we have. Instead, we are directing special efforts towards those who are in the most difficult situation. D a group has changed to composition and number because we now have quite large groups of people who have come to Sweden and who may never have attended school or who have a very short school background. Of course, new efforts are needed here, and it is these efforts that we are now making.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-147	Mr President, I would like to Is it not a little strange that the great, contented and government-supporting party should educate little me, the little moderate who questions the government's policy? It's a von oben attitude that's incredible. It's socialism out at the fingertips. You're supposed to educate the people in what they're supposed to think. It's great that we disagree on this so that something happens. Otherwise, nothing would happen; otherwise, we would live in a dictatorship. I've been on the government website. If I may allow myself to be a little youthful, I can say that it is totally shitty, just like the policy that the government represents. One serious problem that we are discussing is that the government uses a great many words and takes a great many measures. But none work in practice. It is therefore clear that it is important, with regard to the measures decided upon, for people to be included in these various programmes or whatever it may be. It has to be easier. It's too bureaucratic and too hard. Even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise thinks that the fast track for shortage professions is too rigid a system that creates major problems in the business sector. Construction workers are not present even though we have a shortage of housing. The Public Employment Service does not even know how to act when it comes to the fast track. The fast track has given zero butchers even though it's a deficiency profession. Not a single butcher has entered the fast track. I have already presented the proposals that we have for a better policy that really gets people into work and brings people into society. This is a serious problem and a ticking bomb. We need to bring in people who are far from the labour market, especially overseas, otherwise it may be very difficult in the future. We must resolve this now, Mr President.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-153	Mr President, I would like to As you listen to the debate earlier, I asked Erik Andersson a question if he could mention five constructive proposals on how to create more jobs for new arrivals. I asked if the Moderates and Erik Andersson had such proposals. I was not told any proposal but only heard rather negative opinions about government policy and really nothing constructive at all. That's what I find so boring. That's what you keep hearing from the Moderates. There are no suggestions of their own. There is a proposal that is constantly being heard: lower taxes, lower taxes, lower taxes. It is a universal solution and a magic wand that the Moderates think they can wave to solve every problem in society. It's not like that. There is a completely different reality. I am sorry, the Moderates and Erik Andersson, but you must also come up with concrete proposals to actually create jobs in this country. You can't just lower taxes, lower taxes, lower taxes. Mr President, I would like to As the educated people I am, as I mentioned earlier, I would like not only to tell Erik Andersson in this House what is happening but also to take him out to reality. Every week I meet new arrivals at asylum homes, at Arbetsförmedlingen and at companies that have hired their first new arrivals. I am doing this to gain these concrete experiences. Therefore, here and now I would like to invite Erik Andersson down to Karlskrona, where I live. If he's interested, he'll be happy to come. If he doesn't have time to come to Karlskrona, I can tell him that he can go with Dua out, who at the government's advice works not only with young people who don't get a job but also with new arrivals. There are many projects. Dua will soon have a collection here in Stockholm, and Erik Andersson is very welcome there. Thank you for the floor, and I hope that we can continue to have a constructive discussion in this House.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-157	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have an educational problem. Erik Andersson says that Moderate politics works but that one had bad luck when politics was tested in reality and led to an increase in unemployment, increased gaps and collapsed public finances. At the same time, he says that the policies of the Social Democrats and the government are not working. Nevertheless, it leads to increased employment and lower unemployment. It's an educational uphill. But good luck! I'll answer the question seriously. It is a major challenge with many new arrivals, and especially with those with low levels of education. It is a little new, compared to what traditional labour market policies and education policies have had to face. That is why new thinking is needed, and we need to change the policy. I also believe that new types of jobs are needed that become a way into the labour market. That is why we are investing heavily in education – in apprenticeships, in vocational training, in folk high school together with SFI and vocational training. We are investing in extra services, which are low-skilled jobs for those who cannot compete with others. We make it easier for more people with disabilities, for example, to be employed by raising the ceiling for salary subsidies. We collaborate with the business community in the Welcome Talent, the 100-club, Job Break and much more for many of the employers who want to take responsibility for internships or to try new arrivals, often in combination with language teaching. We also work together to find more paths, for example through matching positions, for people who need more support to get further into the labour market. There is a wide range of such initiatives, and we will have to do even more. It's a big challenge, and it can be handled. But it is also necessary to leave some ideological blindfolds and dare to see the reality as it looks.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-161	Mr President, I would like to Christian Barenfeld has asked me what measures I intend to take to make it easier for people with lower education and little work experience to get into work. The development of the Swedish economy is very strong, and the demand for labour is good. The strong demand for labour may also benefit people who are far removed from the labour market. Since the government took office, employment has increased by 120 000 people. Employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. The Government pursues an active labour market policy and considers it important to find new ways of finding jobs for those with relatively low qualifications. The government has introduced trainee jobs and additional services to facilitate entry into the labour market and to meet the needs of staff in many of the welfare activities. The government intends to develop additional services by strengthening them to include 100% rather than 75% of work and by increasing the support for supervisors for the first three months. The Government also intends to broaden the target group to include new arrivals and broaden the scope for using additional services to more areas. After dialogue with the Government, SKL and Kommunal have agreed on the modalities for using the additional services. In order for new start-ups to be more accurate and efficient, the Government intends to target them more clearly at those furthest from the labour market by reducing the subsidy for people who have been unemployed for less than two years and reducing the maximum support periods. At the same time, the Government intends to increase the subsidy in new start-up jobs for people who have been unemployed for more than three years and for new arrivals, in order to strengthen their opportunities for entry and entry into the labour market. The state must assume its responsibilities and create jobs that are not currently carried out in the state authorities. These jobs should have good working conditions. Modern preparedness jobs in the state are gradually introduced from 2017 onwards and will employ at least 5,000 people by 2020. We need more ways into the labour market for people with short education. However, we also have a great lack of skills in several professions, and those shortcomings need to be addressed. The education system therefore needs to be able to meet people with extensive training needs and equip them with the skills needed in the labour market. In order to strengthen people's job opportunities and improve matching in the labour market, the government has launched a new knowledge boost with an initiative that has been fully expanded to include around 70 000 places. Part of this effort is to increase the number of vocational and apprenticeship training places for adults, apprentices. The Government proposes an extension of the vocational qualification, to 21 750 places in 2017 and an extension of the apprenticeship to about 2 600 places in 2017. The Government also intends to come back with a proposal for a new study grant, called the start-up grant. The support aims to enable more unemployed people with short education and a great need for education to study at basic or upper secondary level in order to be able to establish themselves in the labour market. People with short previous education have different conditions and needs, and the efforts therefore need to be personalised so that they become accurate and effective.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-170	Mr President, I would like to I thank Minister of Labour and Establishment Ylva Johansson for the answer to my interpellation. In the answer, we hear a clearly satisfied minister standing in the speaker's seat, and we have done so in previous debates as well. She's very pleased. It's worrying. Sweden is certainly doing well, and we are all happy about that. It is good that Sweden is doing well; I hope that everyone in this House thinks so. But it's going well in many ways. Many of our inhabitants in Sweden are doing well too. We are in a boom. Then it creates jobs, and more get jobs. At the same time, we see the new alienation emerging. We have 130 areas in our country that are so-called alienation areas. These are areas where less than 50%, i.e. less than half, of the population works and where the dependency on benefits is high. According to the government itself, nearly 1 million people are in danger of falling into the new exclusion. Unemployment is also expected to rise at the end of the mandate. That is worrying, Mr President. At the same time as unemployment is falling, we are seeing more and more people who are far from the labour market. But Ylva Johansson is satisfied. Weaknesses are very high – the goal is to have the EU's lowest youth unemployment rate by 2020. I think it's good to have ambitions, and I think it's good to have high goals. But I also think that realism is a good thing. The problem with this objective is that no serious judge believes in it. Ylva Johansson, Mikael Damberg and Stefan Löfven remain. They are basically the only ones to be heard defending this objective. When a further 1 million people are at risk of falling into the new alienation, things have to happen. Proposals must be put forward that will lead to more jobs. In the election movement Ylva Johansson and Stefan Löfven promised 32 000 trainee jobs and 20 000 extra posts. And what was that all about? Well, it was a thumb, as they say in the old story. There were 179 trainee jobs out of the 32,000 promised, and there were about 1,000 extra jobs out of the 20,000 promised. At the same time, it has made it more expensive to hire young people. Had other elements been introduced that led to more people getting work, it would have been one thing, but now the costs of hiring and promising measures are being raised that basically do not deliver anything. Five thousand state emergency jobs are promised, and the question is whether you deliver there. It remains to be seen. If we have 1 million people in alienation, and if 5 000 in state emergency work is the solution, we still have a small problem. At the same time, the government has weakened the RUT deduction. The Alliance's demands in the Migration Agreement broadened it in sectors, but weakens it in the economy. We propose a triple. We have a wide range of concrete measures for increasing the number of jobs. However, the Social Democrats and Ylva Johansson say no to that. We also have a low proportion of simple jobs in Sweden. This does not mean that they are easy, but they do not require high qualifications. The government would fix that – you would create more. Mikael Damberg has said so, and Ylva Johansson has said so. But then comes the Social Democratic Union LO and says no, because the jobs are not good enough and not good enough. What about the simple jobs, Ylva Johansson? Is it Mikael Damberg, you and Stefan Löfven who decide, or is it LO and Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson who run the government in front of them?
i-c22af51d676b29eb-179	Mr President, I would like to One problem in this context, as I see it, is that it is not just a matter of substance. It feels like you are constantly trying to bring the discussion to some political solutions, and it often lands in tax reductions and low-wage investments. This policy direction has been tested for eight years. It actually didn't work, and then it's time to try something new. Clearly, it is impossible to tell what will happen in the future. So far in these two years it has actually gone in the right direction. But we can look historically, because there we know what happened with different political orientations. We Social Democrats had a boost in knowledge that was about people complementing their education. Many were unemployed, but it was also people who already had a job and felt that they wanted to supplement upper secondary school education. We were laughed at. This would not solve the problems of the labour market. However, it made a huge difference; we can see how we halved unemployment during that period. The unemployed who took the knowledge boost had a better chance of getting a job. There was a shortage of labour in some sectors, just as it is today. Some who had had a job before decided to change jobs. Some completed their education further and went to college, and many of them got jobs later, of course. We now have a new knowledge boost, just as we had before when we had too high unemployment. History has shown that the best entrance is to equip for the future. I do not think that we will need less knowledge in the future – more so. On the other hand, it is not as simple as the fact that it is only a question of higher education. It's not just about college level. I have visited an interesting project in Malmö, namely the hotel project. It has been built on that new arrivals should be able to work as quickly as possible in hotels. Many of those involved in the project had experience working in hotels in their home countries. Some people had never worked in hotels but would love to. They therefore read SFI, that is Swedish for immigrants, linked to hotel knowledge. This meant that they learned Swedish faster, because they had a strong motivation to get to work quickly. It also meant that they could start working faster, because the words they learned in Swedish were specifically aimed at hotel jobs. So they hit two birds with one stone; it was fast sfi, and the participants quickly came to work. It was also the case that most people came to work. They got an internship in hotels around Malmö, and the vast majority of them had to stay and work there. It went very quickly from when they came to Sweden to that they came out to work. It was also seen that having another language could be a great asset. For example, when a Russian delegation visited a hotel, they ran into the kitchen and picked up the Russian chef who could speak Russian. It could thus really enrich the activity. This is just one of many projects. Malmö has moved on in, for example, the restaurant industry, where we also see labour shortages. It has so far been very positive and successful. We have just started something new that is about getting hired at a company and getting training. You get pay and education, and you mix practice and theory. You're employed for two to three years. These new ways to help people so that they both learn Swedish faster and come to work faster I find very exciting. It is not at all the case that we are just investing in higher education, but some form of education needs most people to get to work.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-188	Mr President, I would like to This is an important debate we are having here today. It's about jobs, and it's about the future. It is about the future of many hundreds of thousands of people. Are they ever going to be able to get a job or not? That is what we are discussing. It is good that we are told by Ylva Johansson about all the initiatives the government intends to make. These are new measures – knowledge transfer, extra services and trainee jobs – and an active labour market policy, says Ylva Johansson. But in reality right now, all of this is a fiasco. It's actually a ticking bomb that's about to crawl in 2017 and 2018. The government itself says that it expects nearly 1 million people in exclusion by 2020. Then you can't be satisfied. The number of enrolled people who have been out of work for 6, 12 or 24 months has increased since Ylva Johansson became Minister. Then we have to look at what the government says it wants to do. Yes, there is a whole cadre of action with a number of places here and there. However, we are in the middle of the term of office now, and in the first half of the term of office none of this has succeeded. Why not? It's a failure on the part of the government. At the same time, you stand and take credit for all the jobs that have grown because we have gone into a boom. The boom started already in 2013 – 2014. Jobs grew even in the last year of the alliance government. It is not something new that has been added; it is a business cycle issue. The government also lacks a plan for integration. There is no particular plan for how all these people should get into work. Finding a number of places in education is not enough. As I said before, there are no specific proposals on jobs. When their own expert bodies, such as the Institute of Economic Development, judge that government policy has a negative impact on the growth of new jobs, it is a crisis. Trainee jobs have failed. The auxiliary services have failed. What is it that says that the knowledge lift and all that is listed in the answer to Christian Holm Barenfeld would succeed? It's a pure guess. None of what we have seen has succeeded. A large number of services, jobs and training places have been promised that have not become a reality. In the meantime, the gender of the Employment Service is growing among low-skilled people looking for a job. What is the government's response to that problem? Ylva Johansson usually points out that labour market policy should be assessed according to the results. I am the first to admit that this is not easy, but what does the government do? The result is 179 trainee jobs and just over a thousand extra jobs. That is the result – the rest is nothing to do with government policy. It makes us worried about the future. The number of unemployed is growing in the groups that are far from the labour market. It's a ticking bomb. Very strong measures are needed. It's not about a number of places here or there or promises of new jobs called different things. Real jobs are the solution to the challenges of the future, and here Sweden has a long way to go.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-197	Mr President, I would like to I felt I had to go into this discussion after hearing Katarina Brännström say that the government has no policy of integration. Maybe I shouldn't use Magnus Magnus's example when it comes to folk educators – I myself am a folk educator and have worked as an ombudsman at ABF. It is very unfortunate that the Moderates have not followed the discussion in the last six months. Prior to Almedalsveckan, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and Minister Ibrahim Baylan – who have been given increased responsibility in terms of integration work and breaking segregation – presented a long-term reform programme for the reduction of segregation. It clearly points to the importance of people in our suburbs or in socially vulnerable areas getting jobs. It points to the importance of equipping them to take on the jobs that exist, i.e. that they become employable. We must ensure that long-term unemployment is broken, and we also need to raise schools and pupils' school outcomes. Just as Hillevi Larsson pointed out, comprehensive school and upper secondary school are of great importance when you are going to get a job. But it is also about strengthening public services and reducing the overcrowding that exists in many areas. We shall also support civil society and work towards democratic values. The government has presented a battery of measures to access segregation. We make the assessment that there is segregation and that we have socially vulnerable areas, but we also have a plan for how we should work to change this. It is important to have political will and to have a programme for tackling the major challenges we face. I think it is important that we take this on board. I also think we should consider the matter of a ticking bomb. It feels like a new approach and a new way of defining problems have been developed at the Moderate Party Office. A ticking bomb? We have been running this country for two years, but we inherited long-term unemployment, segregation and exclusion. It's not enough to go to Husby and take a selfie and think you can break the segregation. The segregation has in fact been there for the last 20 years, but it was cemented in the eight years that the bourgeoisie ruled this country and it was all about lowering the tax and nothing else.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-206	Mr President, I would like to The debate is running in a number of directions. We are pursuing an economic policy. We make investments in infrastructure and housing construction. We are investing in a record amount of resources to expand welfare. Private business responds with record investments in private business and new jobs in both private and public business. We have 100,000 job vacancies on the labour market, which is all-time-high. Does that mean that all the problems are solved? No, but when the Moderates say that no one wants to hire or that Sweden is doing badly, that is not true. A lot of people want to hire. The problem today is that many employers do not get the right people with the right skills for the job vacancies. In the current economic situation, it would be crazy to stimulate with broad, unfunded tax cuts. This could be justified in a situation of recession, but in the current economic situation it would be a totally wrong policy. Now it is investments in education that apply. However, many times the employer cannot wait for the person to be educated. Then it is a combination of education and work that applies. Hillevi Larsson described very well how you have to work in each industry and at each employer to find solutions. Sometimes the training can take place at work, sometimes in combination with regular education – all in order to find ways forward where employers get people with the right skills and where the unemployed can get jobs. We hear the Moderates talking about alienation areas. I followed the Moderate press conference a few weeks ago. There they presented how the alienation areas during Moderates' time in the government had grown and become vastly many more. This is regrettable. It is a serious problem that we have large divisions in Sweden and that these divisions increased sharply during the period of bourgeois government. This is a major obstacle to Sweden's strength and growth, and it is one of the things that we need to address. Mr President, I would like to I would like to correct a few things that have been said in the debate. RUT services are not decreasing. On the contrary: RUT deductions are increasing, as shown in the budget. It's an increased expense that can be seen on the tax when you make RUT deductions. It is therefore a sector that is growing, contrary to what we have heard here in the debate. Nor is it true that unemployment is increasing among foreign-born people. On the contrary, we have an increased employment rate among foreign born people. Unemployment is generally falling, and so is unemployment in that group. We see that the number of enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen is clearly decreasing without the appointment, not least those who have been enrolled for a long time. But what happens when we add those who are enrolled in the establishment mission? They are also enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen, which is quite right – they must be enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen. However, the way in which we measure the 24 months in which we are enrolled in the start-up assignment will allow us to become long-term unemployed, as we define it in terms of enrolment, already after half the time. As I see it, it is not a failure that it takes 24 months to establish yourself in the labour market. But I see it as a failure that we cannot find a place in the labour market for more people within the two-year period. Many leave the start-up assignment and move on to unemployment. That is why we need to change the policy.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-216	Mr President, I would like to There were many comments here, from the Minister and – in normal order – from Hillevi Larsson and others. I want to make it clear that at the beginning of my previous speech I said that Sweden is doing well in many ways. Many people in Sweden are doing well. The problem is that those who are far removed from the labour market are ever further away from it, and that is where the government is left out of hand. There is some recession in the Parliamentary Labour Market Committee. There will be very few proposals from the minister responsible. Some tax cuts may be proposed, and they may be useful. What Ylva Johansson does not say is that the government chooses to keep the Alliance's biggest tax reduction, namely the tax reduction that made sure that the person who works and has an income can keep more money in his wallet. For those with the lowest income and average income, this meant approximately an additional monthly salary per year. But it is not only that, but it is also the measure that is deemed to be the most effective measure of all measures to create more jobs. We can also note that the Alliance's new start job created more new jobs during the first year than Ylva Johansson's combined initiatives have so far done. Remember the 179 of the 32,000 promised trainee jobs! I'm from Värmland myself. There, if I have the right numbers, two warmers have got part of Ylva Johansson's investment in trainee jobs. Of the 20 000 additional posts, it has become 1 000. You do not impair RUT, says Ylva Johansson. But the tax deduction is reduced from 50 000 to 25 000 per year. Because the Alliance put pressure on the government and made a migration agreement, the RUT deduction was broadened to cover more sectors. And we can be honest that it was not a wish and something that was driven by the government and Ylva Johansson. It was something the Alliance ran. We are now proposing a triple of the government's proposal of 25 000 to 75 000, precisely because the RUT deduction made a black market white and created many new companies, and many got their first job. A large part of these jobs are classified as simple jobs, which this interpellation is about. The government has said that the simple jobs will be more. The Social Democratic Union, LO, which has power in the Social Democrats, says no. My question to the Minister is therefore: will more simple jobs be delivered? Is it Ylva Johansson, Mikael Damberg and Stefan Löfven with colleagues in charge of the government, or should we let LO and Karl ‐ Petter Thorwaldsson set the agenda for the government? That is my specific question, because what does the government do to increase the number of simple jobs?
i-c22af51d676b29eb-225	Mr President, I would like to Let's start by telling you what you mean by simple jobs. We Social Democrats have nothing against people working on things that require a shorter education, certainly not, but if it is about wage cuts. After all, it becomes problematic if they work full time and cannot make a living on their wages. The talk that it should pay to work does not apply in that case. This may mean applying for support when you have a full-time job. That's the way I think I'm going in the wrong direction. We can look at what it looks like in the United States, for example. There are people who are forced to have two to three jobs and who work almost 24 hours a year. They have very long working hours but very low wages. They can live in poverty even though they work all the time. The question is: is it in this direction that we want to go? I don't think so. This is not a success path, but the goal must, of course, be full employment, but also that people should have a living wage. If we have started to move in the direction of lower wages, we are heading in the wrong direction. If we also have market rents, it will be even more difficult. You have to be able to pay your rent and you have to be able to make a living on your job. However, it goes without saying that you don't have to have a really long education for some jobs. Ylva Johansson has presented additional services, which were previously called plus jobs, which strengthen welfare. The extra services may be to go out with the elderly or to be a rest watchman at a school. They are not supposed to replace existing services – on the contrary, we need more existing services – but they are services where other tasks can be performed. But you're supposed to have a contractual salary. Most people also need training to get a job. It can stand to be repeated.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-229	Mr President, I would like to Ylva Johansson says it's all-time-high when it comes to demand for jobs. I'm sure it is, too, and it's great. However, the jobs that are now being created are far too few for those who lack education and are far from the labour market. That's what we're supposed to be focusing on here today, not on what's going well, on people who get jobs in a couple of months. It's kind of not a big problem. Unemployment has actually increased in a year, Ylva Johansson, among those born abroad. It's not a giant increase in percentages, but the number is large. It has increased from 21.4% to 21.6%. It's a fact, so I think we should relate to that. The number of unemployed young people with low education has only fallen by 500 in two years. It is a very large group that is a huge challenge, as well as foreign born women, which Ylva Johansson also emphasizes that it is going well for. Their employment rate last year was 63.4 per cent compared with over 85 per cent for native women. It's a huge glitch! It is these who have the most difficulty in getting jobs that we are worried about, because there is a lack of sufficient reforms and efforts from the government. Of all those enrolled in the Employment Service, the proportion of unemployed young people with low education has increased from 24 per cent to 32 per cent. It's a huge challenge. What, then, has happened? Well, there's a number of trainee jobs and some extra services. That is the conclusion of the government's first two years in power. There was a lot of investment in training contracts, but there has been no more than 1 500. Why should we believe that the huge efforts that are now being made on reforms here will be successful when nothing has been achieved so far? Hence our concern, Ylva Johansson.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-235	Mr President, I would like to I think we all agree that we have challenges and that they need to be dealt with. Ylva Johansson and others have presented a battery of measures to address these challenges in the labour market. These are different conditions for different groups. That is why the government is making huge efforts to meet the needs of the various groups. I am pleased with the Press Release of the Employment Service today, which shows a continued decrease in unemployment among young people. I think that's important to look at. We now have the lowest youth unemployment rate in eight years. Young people are doing well, and we should be happy and proud of that. But we're not really happy. We have very many young people who are still outside the labour market. Above all, it is about creating the conditions for them to get a good education. It is also a question of increasing their employability so that they can take on the jobs that exist in the labour market. Therefore, I and our party do not believe that low wages or so-called simple jobs are the solution to increase the ability of these young people to enter the labour market. We believe in education and in creating other conditions, so that these young people have a chance to enter the labour market and get a wage to live on. Sweden and we will never benefit from the fact that young people get poorer or have worse conditions in the labour market and can be more easily dismissed from their jobs.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-241	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström is so upset about this that we should educate and think that instead we should ensure that those people who do not have education should be able to get so-called simple jobs without education. I think we need both. Why, then, is education so important? Because today we have 100,000 vacancies. Not all of these require qualified education or training, but many do. If we do not train the unemployed for these jobs, the employer will remain empty. Then we will break the boom, and we will have worse economic development than we would otherwise have had. Companies will be forced to decline orders, and welfare will not be able to maintain quality. This also leads to shortcomings in the rest of the economy. Education is two-sided. On the one hand, it is about the individual being able to get the job, on the other hand, it is about the employer getting a person who can do the job. Therefore, these issues are not interchangeable. I listened carefully, Christian Holm Barenfeld, and interpret it as saying that the Moderates think the government is in favour of a wise economic policy. However, you are critical of the fact that more young people with upper secondary education are not in labour market policy measures but rather in regular education. That's about what you said: Economic policy is good, but it's a problem that there are so few trainee jobs. Then we are quite close, except that I do not think that young people should be in labour market policy measures if they have the opportunity to get a job without the support of society. I think that's better. Of course, the young people who need support should receive it. That is why we need to do it again, because young people with upper secondary skills are no longer a group with high unemployment. I am asked how we view simple jobs, and I will try to answer it seriously. My view and that of the government is that we need more jobs that become entry-level jobs for those who have low qualifications and who are not able to compete sufficiently for the jobs that are regular in the labour market today. It is people with short education or with little or no work experience. That is why more jobs with low qualification requirements are needed, which will be a step into the labour market for these people. It's not about a kind of job. It's probably about a lot of jobs. Christian Holm Barenfeld often highlights RUT jobs, and it is possible that it is a way in. There's a lot of evidence to suggest that. We are now making changes to new start jobs, which greatly affects the cost of wages for those who are far from the labour market. We are expanding and changing the system of additional services. Here we now have an agreement between the parties on the conditions for this. We look at introducing matching positions or something in line with the matching positions proposed by the investigation, and we create modern standby jobs. We will certainly have to do more to get people who find it difficult to enter the labour market into their first job. However, I say no to a development where simple jobs become a growing part of the Swedish economy. I think it is a dead end for Sweden. We will not be able to compete vigorously and successfully in global competition if we invest in an increasing proportion of jobs with low qualification requirements as a self-worth. I can't see it's a way forward. Let me say again: anyone who wants lower wages can choose another government.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-256	Mr President, I would like to Just so that there is no doubt: I, for one, did not endorsade a government policy, and I do not think it is responsible enough. However, I said that it was responsible and wise to maintain the job tax deductions, which the Alliance Government introduced, because they created more jobs and gave more in their wallets to ordinary people with low and medium incomes. That's good. It is not simply to get a clear picture of what the Social Democrats and the government want. Normally it is difficult to know, based on the fact that it can sound different from the Social Democrats and the Green Party and that the Left Party then comes and says something completely different and that is where you have to anchor it. But in this situation Ylva Johansson finally answers a little about the simple jobs while Hillevi Larsson clearly says that she does not want them because they are bad and give lower wages, and Serkan Köse calls them a so-called simple job. LO does not want them either, and we are all aware of the influence of LO on the Social Democrats, not least in terms of labour market policy. We have challenges ahead. It's not a little thing. At the moment, 143 000 people are waiting for a reply from the Finnish Immigration Service about a residence permit. Within a few years we will have about 300 000 connecting cases. To this should be added all those who are already in the Swedish Public Employment Service's register, both Swedish-born and new arrivals. Half of those enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen have primary education or lower education. We will not be able to quickly turn all of them into civil engineers, doctors or economists, but we need faster and easier steps in. Here are simple jobs a lot. It does not conflict with the fact that we invest in excellence and other things to develop Sweden. It's good if the government delivers and not just talks.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-263	Mr President, I would like to The challenges are great, but they are possible to deal with. Some important keys are the focus on jobs from the first day, early interventions, education and training in Swedish from day one for new arrivals, new opportunities for education and several different types of opportunities for education for all those who in different ways need it to be able to get a job. Mr President, I would like to There's a blind spot in the Moderates. It is the usual LO jobs, which require vocational training. Christian Holm Barenfeld says that not everyone can become a civil engineer and doctor and therefore needs jobs without qualification requirements. But there is a large span in between, Christian Holm Barenfeld. We have a huge need for nurses, construction workers, electricians, crane drivers, vehicle mechanics, bus drivers and chefs. A wide range of ordinary LO professions require training and specialised skills, but they do not require a huge length of training. This is where the government is betting. We want to train people who can take jobs where there is a lot of demand. Here it is very realistic to be able to train people, even those with a short school background. Of course, we have great challenges, but when we talk about the simple jobs, it would be good if the Moderates saw the beam in their own eye. When you ruled, you introduced custody allowance. Being a parent and taking care of children full time is not an easy job, but it is a job with low qualification requirements. It was a real women's trap, especially for women with a low or short educational background and born abroad. That's a trap we've taken away. Now there is a focus on jobs in the labour market.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-267	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me how I intend to improve the governance of the programme Preparatory and Orientation Training and how I ensure that the labour market policy programmes have a good effect. The Swedish National Audit Office has submitted an audit report on preparatory and oriented education. All review reports from the Swedish National Audit Office are handled by the Riksdag submitting the report to the Government, which returns with a letter. As the Government has not yet submitted a letter on this report, I would ask you to return to Parliament on this matter. It is important for the government that labour market policy programmes have a good impact on both society and the individual. Knowledge of the impact of the interventions contributes to the development of both the design of the policy and the work of the Public Employment Service. The Employment Service therefore has a mandate in its instruction to analyse, monitor and evaluate the impact of the Agency's activities and labour market policy measures on the functioning of the labour market. The Government monitors the development of labour market policy through reports and analyses from the Employment Service in particular, but also from other authorities such as IFAU and Statskontoret, universities and higher education institutions and international research. The IFAU review of the impact of labour market policy from 2011 and the Annual Labour Market Reports of the Employment Service are examples of such reporting. These reports show that the results need to be improved. The Employment Service's 2016 Labour Market Report shows that the performance of labour market policy programmes varies. Under the alliance government, Arbetsförmedlingen was tasked with prioritising job seekers who are far from the labour market. In the report, Arbetsförmedlingen states that this is seen as a partial explanation of the fall in labour market training results. The Government aims to provide the individual with the support that he or she needs to get closer to a job. The Government intends, for example, to enable young people to participate more closely in actions based on individual needs before entering the job guarantee for young people and to improve the possibility of working with enhanced support based on individual needs within the start-up assignment. In the 2017 budget bill, the Government proposes to develop clearer requirements for results after completing labour market training. In order to contribute to a more effective labour market policy and thus lower unemployment, the government has also simplified and clarified the labour market policy framework, improved conditions for local collaboration, for example with municipalities and county councils, introduced increased opportunities for unemployed people to combine work with education and changed the governance of the Public Employment Service, including through an increased focus on results and reduction of detailed management. Employment services should also be able to match job seekers closer to the labour market. This shift in labour market policy is continuing.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-275	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. I would like to begin by linking for a few seconds with the previous interpellation debate you had here, on education. Yes, we Moderates think education is important. That is why we invest as much as the government in regular education. Many long and short vocational training courses will be needed in the future, but we see a gap in the case of all people who will not take these training courses. More efforts are needed there. There must be a sort of P3 transition to the interpellation debate, Mr President. I wrote the interpellation when the National Audit Office's report came less than a month ago. The report deals with the effects of preparatory training provided by Arbetsförmedlingen. We spend a huge amount of money on labour market policy in Sweden to support people to get back into the labour market. I think that's basically very good. If you see it in general, it's up to 80 billion. If you count out the unemployment fund, it'll be about 55 billion. Other benefits can be excluded to come down, but only Arbetsförmedlingen, programme and start-up measures account for approximately SEK 25 billion. That's a huge amount of money, as much as the police and Säpo cost in a year. We have a mission in the Riksdag to follow if the money is used in the best way. Do we know that they do, and how can we accommodate it? Of course, the Minister for Labour has a great responsibility to ensure that they do. When you read the Swedish National Audit Office's report, you can clearly see that we know very little about the preparatory training and efforts. There will be almost 2 billion in a year, which is, to say the least, a lot of money, in addition to all labour market training. An employment intermediary has little control over what they contain. Very little is known about the effect, yet many people are assigned to these efforts. That makes me worried, and that is why I ask the question: how can the government, in this case Ylva Johansson, ensure that the effects are better? The same applies to labour market training. There we know more, because we know what kind of training it is. But the efforts are not very effective. And there are a huge number of other efforts that are given every day to many people who need it but where we actually do not know the results. This is not a discussion about which policy is best in general but about how we ensure the effect. How do we ensure that the right person gets the right bet? If, for example, even the work mediators do not know what the preparatory education contains, how should someone else know? The report states that there is no clear objective for this. I assume the government has no particular objective. The Arbetsförmedlingen has no goal. You just don't know what the effect is, and it's troubling. That is why I have raised this question, and I would like to know what the Minister for Employment intends to do with regard to education and all other efforts. How can you ensure that all billions that Swedish taxpayers spend on people getting into work are used effectively, Ylva Johansson?
i-c22af51d676b29eb-284	Mr President, I would like to This is a very serious and important question that Elisabeth Svantesson has asked. This is a little bit of a key. It is true that we are spending a great deal of resources on labour market policy, and we must be able to ensure that it is effective. I do not think that we can do so enough today. That is why changes are needed. You have to define what effect is. What is it to have good results? We have just had three interpellation debates in which I tried to argue that good results cannot be measured solely by the participation of as many people as possible in a labour market policy measure. It may be a good result, but it is not necessarily so. It can also be an evasive effect to have people in action when they could have another job or to subsidise jobs that would not have had to be subsidised in a particular situation or in a particular industry. It is always difficult to say what an effort best results and efficiency is. Clearly, there is a great deal we need to learn from others when it comes to measuring and following up. As I said in my reply, I will return with the government's response to the Swedish National Audit Office's letter, but one thing that struck me when I took note of their review was that neither did the Swedish National Audit Office have any idea of what is a good result and what was actually requested from the Swedish Public Employment Service. A little bit, the Swedish National Audit Office requested general systems without being able to respond properly to which systems could ensure that results are achieved. We are not going to come up with that path in full, but we are going to need some other things. Mr President, I would like to I travelled last week, I think it was, to the OECD with the aim of spending a full day together with some of the OECD's most talented managers and officials to learn what lessons can be relevant to Sweden based on the OECD's extensive studies and reviews of other countries. It was now particularly focused on the establishment of newcomers in the labour market. It is one way to see how you can learn from the way other countries follow up and see which things work. One thing that became apparent there was that there is good evidence from the OECD that employment services or equivalent authorities must also focus on those close to the labour market and working with them. Otherwise, there will also be poor results for those who are far removed from the labour market. This is an example of an important lesson that we should use in Sweden. We have set up a study on how the whole of state labour market policy can work better. The investigation is led by Cecilia Fahlberg, who has to look at this difficult issue. Ultimately, it is about what in labour market policy that taxpayers' money should be spent on that is defensible and effective enough to want to make the effort. That's one of the issues the investigation is looking at. Then we follow regularly – all the time – the work of monitoring results. I have changed the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen so that we now steer towards results, but I will honestly say that there is a lot left before the governance works fully so that there are really results delivered from Arbetsförmedlingen. This is a very important area, both in terms of follow-up and continuous reform and improvement. I am pleased that Elisabeth Svantesson raises this question. I believe that we have a common interest in improving the effectiveness of labour market policies.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-294	Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is important that we know how to use the money. I am pleased that the government finally listened to Parliament's two announcements and picked up the investigation into AF. For me, this is not a discussion about AF in general. There is much to say about Arbetsförmedlingen, but it is more about the efforts that individuals receive. Of course, one must always ask what the objective of the various actions is. In this case, when it comes to what the National Audit Office has investigated, no one even knows what the goal is. Even the government or the Arbetsförmedlingen don't seem to know what the target is. One must first of all know what one wants with different types of action. Then you have to think about how to get there and what kind of control to have. I have often heard Ylva Johansson talk about the fact that the Swedish Public Employment Service is no longer under detailed control. I think it is a good thing that detailed control is reduced. We started doing it. There were some things from the government, even before, where we ruled too hard, but also the internal governance of the Public Employment Service has been very hard over the years. If one chooses to have the goal of reducing detail management, it places very high demands on monitoring and evaluation. It will be difficult to know what works well and what doesn't if you reduce the detail control and say that you try to steer towards some kind of goal – which they are, I haven't really understood myself – and if you also, at the other end, say that you don't follow up much longer but hand over the whole toolbox in the hands of the work intermediaries. It's this gut feeling that makes me a little worried. Do I not think that the work mediators can make good judgements? I absolutely think so! But let us remember that there are thousands of workers out there. Many are quite new, and so does Statskontoret in its report. The example of a new employment intermediary is a 27-year-old newly trained behavioural scientist. It's not always easy then. You have not attended a three-year employment service education at the university, but you have another education with you, and so you should meet people in different situations and be able to give them the best efforts. Control is needed here so that you actually know what gives effect, an assessment tool and that you actually steer towards exactly what this person needs. It also provides security for the work mediators. Brå presented a report not so long ago that says that 42 percent of all staff at AF have experienced a certain impact only in the last year where the unemployed try to influence the employment intermediary's performance of duties. Of course, I don't think we should have too much detail control, but you have to know what you want and how to get there so that the employment intermediary has a security in knowing what actually applies. In this work, I hope that the government thinks about it and that it does not both release the steering completely – I think it feels sometimes – and at the same time does not follow up. Ten reports have been received so far this year. It may be a good level, I will leave it unsaid, but there is a risk that if you let go of governance and at the same time do not follow up, you do not use taxpayers' money in the best way.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-303	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that Arbetsförmedlingen's results should be measured according to the objectives that exist for Arbetsförmedlingen's activities. They are to increase labour market matching and functioning, to reduce unemployment, in particular with a focus on the long-term unemployed and young people, and to ensure that new arrivals come to work or training. I don't have them in front of me now, but about that's what the targets look like. That's what you're heading for. It sounds a little bit at Elisabeth Svantesson that the government would somehow have reduced the follow-up. That's not true. The government monitors and has reports from the Swedish Public Employment Service. But I would still like to say: are we following up well enough and effectively enough? I'm not sure about that. I believe that there is room for improvement in this area. I would also like to say that these audits that come from the Swedish National Audit Office, and also this last one, mainly review the time before I took office. That's how the National Audit Office works. But there has been no radical improvement since then either, but this is something we have to work on. So these are issues that need to be taken seriously. They're hard to achieve. This is a huge amount of money, and it must therefore be taken very seriously to achieve better follow-up. Elisabeth Svantesson points to an important area, and that is AF's internal training. Since you can't go to university to become an employment intermediary – and you may not be able to – there are very high demands on internal training within Arbetsförmedlingen. This is one of the areas that the Public Employment Service itself has defined as weak. For several years, it has not been possible to have sufficient internal training. It's probably not a rough guess that it's probably reflected in a lower efficiency. In general, relevant training usually leads to better and more efficient work. So this is an area that the agency is already working on and which is very important. Madam President, I would like I want one thing on the record. Elisabeth Svantesson began by saying that the Moderates have changed their view of regular education, and I welcome that. One of the areas reported by the Public Employment Service itself requires a major effort in further training of staff. For several years it has not been the task to match and motivate people for regular education. Now we are going to do so, and there are new opportunities to do so because there are more training places and more ways into work and combinations of education and work. This is something that, of course, needs to be improved so that more people can get in that way and get a good foothold on the labour market. As I said, this is an important area of reform. We are certainly not at a situation with which I am satisfied, but more needs to be done. It is also a difficult area, but there is no need to duck for it. It's big money – it's taxpayers' money – and it's very important to society that it's about: having an effective employment service and a well-functioning labour market. I can therefore promise Elisabeth Svantesson this is an area that I prioritise and will continue to prioritise.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-313	Madam President, I would like Let me use my last two minutes of speech to send a few tips to the Minister for Employment on two areas where I think the government should do something very concrete in terms of labour market intervention. It is about labour market training that the government spends 1.8 – 1.9 billion on every year when we know that the results are, to say the least, bad. Redo it! Point it at the employers. Let employers participate in the selection process, influence the content of education and make it more regional, and it will be a better accuracy. The second part that I think the Minister for Labour should make over immediately is that all these wage subsidies should become one instead. We have developed a model that reduces the number from eight to one. It makes it easier to use, gives a better accuracy and then also becomes easier to evaluate. It is easier to follow up and evaluate an aid than eight nine. There were two tips on the way to the Minister for Labour to spend taxpayers' money better and more people will have a better chance of getting to work – the latter of course.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-317	Madam President, I would like I can congratulate Elisabeth Svantesson on the fact that both of these things are already under way. As we could read in the budget, we are now developing new requirements on the quality and results of labour market training. After all, the demands for results that existed were removed by the old government, and then the results fell dramatically. Now we are developing new requirements. Already today – this change has been going on since I took office – it is working to direct labour market training towards employers' needs, where employers have the opportunity to influence both the design and selection of those who will take the labour market training courses. It's important for this to actually lead to work. The second concerns the simplification and pooling of employment subsidies, which was one of the things I also demanded in opposition and which I was working on when I took office. I'll tell you honestly, it's been something harder than I actually thought. That's why we're gonna have to do a few moves. After all, the Public Employment Service made a proposal that greatly simplified employment subsidies from the perspective of the Public Employment Service. Unfortunately, it was not in a way that employers perhaps perceived as a simplification. It is supposed to be a proposal that simplifies both from the employers' perspective, for the employment mediators who will handle matters and, of course, for the individual individuals who are able to benefit from the various employment subsidies. There, then, we have started internal work to produce proposals. So it's going on.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-321	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin has asked me how I see the proposal for a change in the allocation of funds to the energy and climate advisory services. As the interpellier writes, state aid for municipal energy advice has been around for a long time. The current form of advice dates from 1997 and has been continuously evolving since then, both in terms of target groups and subject areas. In 2013, the then government set aside funds for an external evaluation of government efforts for energy efficiency, including municipal energy and climate advice. The evaluation pointed out that advice is of varying quality with notable differences, that there is uncertainty about the mission and its target groups and that there is a lack of follow-up. The evaluation thus revealed a need to review and concretely implement the tasks, responsibilities and working methods of energy and climate advice. The current government then moved on and commissioned the Swedish Energy Authority to submit proposals by the end of April 2015 at the latest. to design and focus on municipal energy and climate advice in the future. The Government decided after referral of the Authority's proposal, and taking into account the views of the consultation bodies, on a new regulation(2016:385) on the contribution to municipal energy and climate advice. The regulation authorises the Energy Authority to lay down rules on, inter alia, the amount of the grant. The Swedish Energy Agency's recently published regulations lead to an increased differentiation of the grant that can be applied for by municipalities, so that municipalities with many inhabitants and high energy use can receive more support than municipalities with fewer inhabitants and lower energy use. This is desirable as it enables advice to be more cost-effective. From the government's side, we have been clear about the importance of ensuring that citizens of smaller rural municipalities also have access to high-quality independent energy and climate advice. This is also why the Government has commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to have a special focus on these issues. In the regulations, the authority presents a model in which cooperating rural municipalities are automatically eligible for special rural support beyond the basic level. In addition, rural municipalities can apply for a travel allowance. To this it is added that funds, which can be applied for by all municipalities, are allocated for specific action projects. It is not true, therefore, that a smaller rural municipality is only able to receive 50 000 SEK, but the total amount may be considerably higher than that. The government's assessment is that the new regulatory framework rewards cooperation and gives less rural municipalities good opportunities to provide high-quality energy and climate advice. In conclusion, I believe that the new regulatory framework provides the conditions for creating a more efficient energy and climate advisory service that reaches more citizens.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-328	Madam President, I would like The energy minister's answer sounds pretty good. The problem is that the reality is completely different. This is an effective way to knock out the municipal energy and climate advice that is close to people and helps in everyday life. The Minister says it's not about 50,000 kroner. That could be true. However, if we add the travel allowance and rural aid, we still come up with sums that are about half of what we are getting today. Today you get a general grant of SEK 250 000 as a minimum. That's about enough for a half-time job. Now it's about to be halved, at best, if you get the money the minister's talking about. How does it make sense to invest in environmental and climate issues, especially throughout the country? These are fine words at national level. But when it comes out to people at local level, the money is halved. It is also fascinating that it is said that it will be more effective. But how effective is it to divide the grant into several different pots? Then you need to search these things, guessing in different applications. Administrative resources are needed for this. Only the costs of managing the administration of a municipality that can get out first 50 000, then 10 000 in travel grants and then perhaps another 70 000 - 80 000 in rural money will be quite substantial. And then we've lost efficiency. My follow-up question to the Minister will then be whether there has been a study of how many municipalities will refrain from seeking support at all, because there will be too much administration. And if this were to be more effective, could the Minister say how much more effective? Has there been any evaluation of how much more effective advice will be, how many more will be reached by advice and how many more energy users, calculated in terawatt hours and other things, will be affected by this? Has there been any evaluation of the change, other than in general, general reasoning which the Minister himself shares in his response? But those reasonings can be drawn from whatever conclusions you want. Has there been any evaluation of how this will actually strike out in Sweden's municipalities?
i-c22af51d676b29eb-333	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpellant for a good question. If we start by discussing the facts, we can see that exactly as much money is invested in the energy and climate advice today, and next year, as under the bourgeois government. To that extent, it does not change in money terms. It is also a centre party initiative, from when the Center Party was in government, which is the basis for this whole change, namely an evaluation, which is what Rickard Nordin is calling for. That evaluation showed that the money that we are spending together to provide efficient energy and climate advice does not go to that. It looks very different. I think it would have looked exactly the same if the Center Party had remained in government with responsibility for energy issues. Like us, they had tried to make sure that the money went to exactly what they were meant for – after all, the state has no endless sources of money. The evaluation, initiated in 2013 by my representative, who was a center party minister, clearly shows that it is not working as well as we wish. Then it is reasonable to look at how it could work even better? That's what we're moving on to now. Rickard Nordin wonders what evaluations have been made. It has been prepared in exactly the order that we always do with this type of new proposal. They are referred, impact assessments are carried out and proposals are then made. If some time after the change has been made it turns out that it does not work, you have to throw away the prestige. One cannot say that the system should be done exactly that way. And, of course, evaluations will continue to be carried out. As far as local authorities' opportunities are concerned, I believe that this can help to focus further work on those areas where the needs are greatest. Nevertheless, it is essentially a matter of ensuring that the municipalities have effective energy and climate work. Then it must be the needs that govern. If there are very good ideas, regardless of the municipality type, I also think there will be resources available. There was first an evaluation, an analysis, initiated in 2013 by a center party minister, where it was concluded that it did not work. But that the conclusion of the same center party, although now a center party in opposition, should be that nothing should be done can surely not be reasonable, Rickard Nordin?
i-c22af51d676b29eb-341	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, reasonable to evaluate. Other things would be stupid. However, the conclusions drawn from the evaluation and the consequences they have are totally unreasonable in this case. The Government is also quite right that there is no difference in how much money we are spending on this. But this is simply a centralisation of resources. This is not the first time this government, or its authorities, has made proposals to centralise resources when it is said that it will be more effective. The tax authority wanted to reduce the number of rural offices so that it would be more efficient and lead to better advice. I find it difficult to see that there is more effective and better advice for the people in rural areas affected by this. It is also interesting to look at where energy use per capita is greatest. It is clear that more energy is being used in large cities, where there are damn many people. It's pretty simple math. But it is not people like me who live in an apartment, tenant-owners or tenants, who are valet to get more information about how to heat our houses. That's done by my association. I may need information about appliances at most, and there are excellent labels on these things. It is those who want to put solar panels on their roof, who are thinking about whether they should have heat pump, district heating or pellet boiler at home needing this. Small rural businesses need this advice. They are also the ones who will get rid of it. It is in rural areas that there is a great deal of energy use. Sweden is a long country, with a cold climate, not least up north. And it is municipalities up north that would have withdrawn resources. We are talking about large municipalities like Arvidsjaur and Storuman. They receive 10 000 SEK in travel grants. 10,000 kronor to travel is perhaps enough in Stockholm municipality. But that money does not propose to travel around Vilhelmina, Storuman and Arvidsjaur. Then Sweden's geography has been misunderstood. The government's going to have to do some homework on this. Obviously, resources have been invested where there are people but not where there is a need in this case. Of course, I share the Minister's view that we need more cooperation and so on. But in many places this breaks down collaborations that already exist, where there is already a well-established cooperation. Many municipalities are already doing what is needed, which they want to steer towards in the new regulations. If so, would it not be better to have a broader dialogue with the municipalities concerned, which also need better cooperation, than to make it hit everyone? Now it beats blindly. It strikes above all against the m in rural areas, and it becomes a problem. These are the ones we need to maintain a public service for. You don't. This is another example of how you have chosen to centralise resources.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-348	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for a good and important discussion! However, I think it is unnecessary to disseminate false information without any grounds and without facts. Neither I nor Rickard Nordin know the result of how This is going to be. Now a system is being launched. The changes in this case are based on a center party initiative and an analysis initiated by a center party minister. I basically share the idea of ensuring that these resources are used as efficiently as possible. To then claim a lot of things without having any actual facts or any actual basis for it, I think is unnecessary. It is clear that when you are going to make changes, there is always a concern; you have to have respect for that. Then I think it is courageous for Rickard Nordin to have a discussion about centralising state resources. He refers to the fact that this government has no idea what it looks like in the northern parts of the country. In the former government, the government to which the Center Party belonged, it was not a minister who lived north of Uppsala, unlike this government that has much better representation as to where the ministers live. Several of our ministers live in northern Sweden. Eight years of centralization of government jobs are now broken. We have taken a number of active decisions including a recent decision to relocate government agencies to both Karlstad and Kalmar. Then it is brave of Rickard Nordin to take such a discussion. I am happy to have such a discussion, but right now it is about energy and climate advice. The resources we invest in climate and energy advice are well-used resources, but it is important to ensure that they are used effectively so that we use the energy we have at our disposal in the most efficient way possible, whether in sparsely populated areas or in our urban areas and whether it is a villa or an apartment. There is more to be done in both cases. This also applies whether it is the housing sector, the transport sector or the business sector. Madam President, I would like I fully understand that there may be concerns among those who today work as climate and energy advisors. We will, of course, ensure that we follow up on this money so that it goes to what it is intended for. The previous government initiated an analysis that concluded that it was not good. Then they went on and pretended that nothing had happened. To do so, on the other hand, would be irresponsible. Now we are doing this. We're trying to use the money more efficiently. Yes, there will also be resources in sparsely populated areas. The money will be used to reward cooperation. I also believe that the vast majority are in favour of this. But, Madam President, I shall be humble enough to say that we hope that the result of this is an improvement on the current system. M one I have no prestige in that case, so I'm not saying that this is an absolutely perfect system. Of course, we will have to follow that up as the system is launched. If it turns out that the money does not go to what it is intended for, namely energy and climate advice, then one must of course be prepared to do something about it. However, continuing with a system which, according to the evaluations that have been carried out, would have been irresponsible. Wouldn't you agree, Rickard Nordin?
i-c22af51d676b29eb-359	Madam President, I would like The minister was talking about pure facts. Yes, the facts are that sparsely populated municipalities receive at least half the resources, the municipalities where it is as cold as possible and where they have the greatest energy use per capita. The government chooses to reason that it obviously doesn't matter what their geographical location is from the beginning. Of course you should evaluate, but it is the conclusions and how to handle the results that matter. There, I think this government has drawn bad conclusions. We may have different views on whether it is reasonable to ship resources to the largest municipalities from the countryside, as this government does in this case. You might think that's good or bad, but I think it's bad. The Minister thinks that is a good thing, and that is obviously where the dividing line goes, not whether or not to evaluate and do it again. But I think it will be problematic, because this is not the only area in which we see this. You can see it in areas by area. As far as tax offices and public services are concerned, there will be less money for those living in rural areas. They have less choice and less opportunity to live. We need rural areas to create the energy on which advice is to be given. It is needed to create jobs in the pulp industry. There's no forest in the big cities. Nor is our food produced in the big cities. Then there must be public service in rural areas as well. This is an effective way of pulling it away, because it actually means halving resources.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-362	Madam President, I would like On the last, we are in complete agreement. It is important that there is public service throughout our country. It is against this background that the current government has broken the centralisation policy of the previous government when more and more government services were centralised. What happened to the IRS? After an evaluation that this government initiated through Statskontoret, it was decided to leave the tax offices. That was the result. We have also worked actively to relocate some authorities and made such decisions. That was not the case under the previous government. Now we have a proposal based on an initiative from 2013. That proposal was prepared in the Government Office under the previous government. We are now moving on to that proposal because the previous system did not work well enough. It is not possible to defend the inefficient use of taxpayers' money; I think we can agree on that. We are now launching a new system. Rickard Nordin claimed that this would mean that rural municipalities would receive only 50 000 crowns. I have now corrected this in the answer I have given. That is not the case. Rickard Nordin says it means a halving, but it doesn't have to be that way at all. Today, there are many municipalities that do not have any energy and climate advice at all and therefore have no resources. For these municipalities, this can even mean an increase. Now we are trying a new system to see if these resources can be used more effectively across the country. If it turns out that we are not achieving these goals, I can say without prestige that we are prepared to back off a system that we have launched. We must make the best use of these resources, and we are now doing so with a new system. We will continuously evaluate this so that we can achieve the goals we have set ourselves.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-369	Madam President, I would like Christian Barenfeld has asked me what measures I intend to take to achieve the Government's objective of 30 000 more simple jobs. The government's goal is to reach the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. With 120 000 more jobs since the elections and unemployment under 7 per cent under pressure, Sweden is heading in the right direction. The employment rate is the highest in the EU for both men and women. The positive developments need to continue. To meet the government's employment targets, the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy must increase. The Government's job agenda consists of actions in more policy areas. Active enterprise and innovation policies stimulate job growth through more and growing companies. Small and growing companies are the ones that contribute most to the creation of new jobs in Sweden. The Government's industrial policy therefore aims to strengthen the conditions for more companies to be created, grow and export. In this way, conditions are provided for more jobs throughout the country. However, when job growth increases, it is those close to the labour market who first get a job. It is therefore important, in a situation where the Swedish economy is strong, to also focus on efforts for the furthest ones from the labour market. With growth among the highest in Europe, Sweden is well placed to increase employment among the long-term unemployed and people who have recently arrived in Sweden. As for the claim that the government made it difficult for RUT jobs, the government has extended the RUT deduction to more sectors. Since 1 August this year RUT includes, for example, additional gardening and floating services. In addition, the government has introduced additional services in the welfare sector. In the 2017 budget bill, the Government states that the level of compensation to the employer should be increased both by the fact that compensation can be paid for full-time employment instead of employment of 75 per cent of full-time and that the fee for supervisors is increased during the first three months of employment. The Government also intends to broaden the target group for the operation so that newcomers can benefit from these jobs. The government is also investing in 5,000 modern preparedness jobs in government agencies by 2020. The government also redirects new start-up jobs so that resources go to those furthest from the labour market. Today's employment support needs to continue to be more effective and easier to manage. Therefore, work is ongoing within the Government Office to review the support. In order for those furthest from the labour market to have better prospects of getting a job, continued work needs to be carried out in order to review and improve the conditions and opportunities for companies to contribute to the creation of more easy ways into employment.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-378	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Damberg, for the answer to my interpellation! I had the privilege of debating the same issue with your colleague, the Minister for Employment, earlier this day. It was a satisfied Minister of Labour, and it seems to be a relatively satisfied Minister of Industry as well. It's a good thing you're happy. It is also good that it is booming and that new jobs are added in Sweden as well as that the companies develop and deliver new jobs. Sweden is doing well, and many in Sweden are doing well. But there are also many who have great challenges. Many are far from the labour market, and they are ever further away from it. That's why I've put this interpellation. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has commissioned Mikael Damberg to produce 30,000 simple jobs. In previous debates, there have been fragmented tasks. Both the Minister for Employment and a number of Social Democratic Members of Parliament have had slightly different views. The conclusion is that the Minister for Labour has been somewhat more positive to simple jobs than her colleagues in the Swedish Parliament seemed to be. I have also read interviews where the Minister for Economic Affairs has spoken on the matter in a way that I thought was good. At the same time, representatives of the Social Democratic Union (LO) have spoken very negatively about simple jobs. They don't want easy jobs. The question is what Mikael Damberg will do to get the jobs done. What will the government do to get the simple jobs done? I can tell you right now that I don't think we should just have simple jobs. A moderate-led government wouldn't cut wages, and we've pruned it off. It does not look the same everywhere in Sweden. We have many residents with different backgrounds, different education and different conditions. We need investment in excellence and excellence. We need training in craft professions. However, we also need simple jobs with low qualification requirements for all those who are now far from the labour market and who have received low or perhaps even no training efforts in the past. Of course, we have a number of people who are far from the labour market and who are born and raised here in Sweden, but we also have a large proportion that is now arriving. Many of them have high qualifications and have had jobs that require long-term training. We need to be better at taking care of this. But we also know that there is a large share of low or no education. For some of them, training efforts are needed, but for others simple jobs are needed. How will government make these simple jobs happen? What's the government plan? Is it Mikael Damberg, Ylva Johansson and Stefan Löfven who are in charge, or is it LO and Karl-Petter-Petter Thorwaldsson who are in charge?
i-c22af51d676b29eb-385	Madam President, I would like When it comes to contentment, everything is relative, isn't it? We are quite pleased that we have good features on the Swedish labour market and that we succeed well with our employment policy with now 120 000 more jobs. Employment is the highest in the EU. In addition, unemployment falls sharply throughout the labour market. Above all, it is gratifying that youth unemployment is the lowest in over 13 years. We have succeeded in this by partially re-establishing the de facto policies of the previous government. It didn't have the same effect. I can understand that the previous government was not very satisfied with its results, as youth unemployment increased. Long-term unemployment did not decrease, but increased. We have this heritage to manage. We are trying to do this by pursuing a policy primarily for more jobs in general in the economy. We know that it means a great deal to people that there is pressure in the Swedish economy, because then many new jobs will be created. It creates all kinds of new jobs: jobs for engineers, professors and doctors, but also for cleaners, restaurant assistants, nurses and carpenters. Jobs are thus created throughout the economy when a good economic policy is pursued. Last year it was driven by exports, while this year it was driven by increased investments, not least in increased housing construction. This is the overall picture of the Swedish economy and our choices to actually make investments. We know it drives the Swedish economy. As for the last comment on the overall discussion, the Moderates should at some point consider and reflect on the current economic situation. We see a labour market shortage in terms of matching, housing construction and infrastructure. Which growth policy is the smartest in this situation? Is it investing in increased education, increased housing construction and increased infrastructure efforts to maintain and develop growth in Sweden? Or is it as usual: the Moderates boil down their draft budgets to tax cuts that have proved to be quite ineffective in the past? These cost a lot but have little effect on unemployment. We have made this shift, and I can understand that the Moderates are disappointed about it. Let me turn to the question of the simpler ways into the labour market. Many people have come to Sweden – 80 000 two years ago and 160 000 last year – and then we have to admit that we actually have a different situation. Many have come to our country in a short time. This calls for innovation and new efforts. This places demands on all parties to push forward. As Christian Holm Barenfeld himself says, everyone who has come to Sweden is not the same. There are those with a high level of education, where matching, validation and a fast way into the labour market are a priority. There are those with medium education who can quickly enter the labour market with the right traineeships and the right supplementary training. There is also a group that has very low education or almost none at all. New efforts must be made there. The budget we have now presented contains three actions which I think concern this group. The first is an extension of the RUT system, which we agreed with the bourgeois parties. This is now delivered. The second is the additional services in welfare, which we are now adjusting and changing our focus on. This means that we will be able to bring people into preschools, schools and care for the elderly to relieve existing staff but also to develop quality. The third area is the state-of-the-art emergency work. We have taken stock of what is not actually being done but should be done by the state authorities. There we make an extra effort for simpler administrative work, digitalization and other things.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-394	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. That things are going well for Sweden in the short term, I hope that all parties, members of parliament and ministers will find it positive. But one should be humble in the political debate. We hear the representatives of the government say that everything that happened before 14 September 2014, i.e. before the elections, went in the wrong direction and that after that it has gone almost perfectly. This applies to everything from work to construction. I am quite convinced that for a large majority of the homes currently being built, planning began long before the 2014 elections. Many of the reforms made for more jobs were carried out before 2014. I don't think it's either a Ylva Johansson effect or a Mikael Damberg effect. There are a lot of complaints about the Alliance's tax cuts. The major tax reductions from the Alliance were the job tax deductions, which gave the low-income or average-income worker about one month's wage more in his wallet each year. It mattered. But it was also an effort that helped create more jobs. It was so good that the government has actually realised that you have to buy it. It is not abolished. So the alliance government's major job reform, the job tax deduction, is retained, because it is known that there will be even more negative effects on the job front otherwise. It is also good that Mikael Damberg is launching Alliance and Elisabeth Svantesson's matching positions. I think this can be part of the solution to the problem of unemployment. I said earlier that Sweden is doing well. Many companies are doing well. Very many people in the labour market are doing well. But those who are far from the labour market are not doing well. And those who are far from the labour market are the most valiant of the simple jobs. Then I'm not saying they shouldn't be offered training. It is clear that we should also offer training. You can do two things, or three. There was a lot of talk about the trainee jobs in the election campaign. The Social Democrats, now in government, promised that there would be 32 000 trainee jobs and 20 000 extra posts. So far, 179 of the 32,000 trainee jobs have arrived. I live and work in Värmland. There, two individual citizens have received the government's promised trainee job. They do not therefore solve the challenge of those furthest from the labour market. Youth unemployment is falling, but it is not falling among those who are far from the labour market, and that is where action is needed. The Alliance government's new start job gave the first year they were launched more jobs than the government's overall efforts have done. It was good that Mikael Damberg brought up the RUT deduction. In the migration agreement, the Alliance succeeded in finding that we would broaden the RUT deduction by the government, which had halved the amount. We are now proposing a threefold doubling of the Government's proposal for the RUT deduction to 75 000. The RUT deduction created new jobs, did black jobs white and was an entrance to the labour market for many of those who were far from the labour market. In addition, it was a major and important contribution to increased female entrepreneurship. I continue to wonder what should be done to increase the number of simple jobs.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-402	Madam President, I would like Let's start with the trainee jobs. It's a little side by side. Trainee jobs were certainly not just simple jobs but assumed that the young people had upper secondary education. They are not young people who have high school education that is experiencing difficulties in the labour market today. Unemployment is soaring among young people with upper secondary education. Trainee jobs were a targeted measure to deal with an acute problem that Sweden had under the bourgeois government, namely that unemployment among young people rose avalanche, which resulted in Sweden receiving EU support to combat youth unemployment, something that we have never received before. Now we have such a development in the Swedish labour market that we do not actually need the trainee job effort for young people. Should we do it anyway, the Moderates say? Is that smart politics? Or should efforts be directed to where we have major problems, for example through extra services in welfare, which the Moderates continue to gloat over? I do not understand: why should we not make a contribution now to relieve the civil servants of elderly care, schools and preschools, who often feel that their daily lives are under great pressure? You could get in a person who relieves himself of the simpler tasks to give more time for care and more time with the children. It's smarter that these people come in and do these easier jobs in welfare than they keep going out of work? I think it's a smart policy. It's one of the big bets in our budget, but the Moderates continue to ralli over it. It's unwise. I think we should take this opportunity to both strengthen welfare and provide people with sensible tasks. I think the Moderate logic is limping. Once again, it becomes clear that you always choose tax reductions over investments. I believe that this is the wrong economic policy in a situation where we have matching problems in the labour market, housing shortages and major infrastructure problems. Then investment should take precedence. I would like to return to the discussion about the simple jobs. There are those who want to use the refugee situation to do something else with Sweden. Several of the bourgeois parties have de facto demanded that the state or government, through active decisions, should influence how the labour market works and pressure wage levels in Sweden. Easy jobs are used as a synonym for jobs with even lower pay. I would like to ask the Moderates: Do you think we should push wages in Sweden? Is that the right way to go? It is not only about the new arrivals coming to Sweden getting lower wages, but there is also a fairly obvious infection effect. If political developments are brought forward that are pushing down the wages of certain groups, it will put pressure on wages for other groups as well. This is a very important message to receive. For our part, we have been very clear. We are happy to work creatively, for example with matching positions, which is a proposal that we can argue about who was first with, because it was carried out in Södertälje under Social Democratic rule and was investigated by Anders Lago. It is about how to make better use of matches with private companies in order for private companies to bring more people from unemployment into the labour market. I think we should be creative. We're gonna think new. But we should be very clear that we are defending the Swedish labour market model. The Swedish model will be defended and developed. It will not be phased out under a Social Democratic-led government.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-409	Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, a moderate government will not lower wages. It may be good to hear for those who listen to the debate. On the other hand, we have a wide range of proposals on how to increase the number of jobs, on how to ensure that those who are far removed from the labour market enter the labour market and on how to get real jobs. We're proposing first-job contracts. We have apprenticeships. Certainly they mean a lower starting salary, but you should also keep the first SEK 12,000 you earn every month without paying tax. It's fixed-term, temporary employment. I don't understand why this should be so difficult. In the construction industry and other industries, we basically have apprenticeship systems. You go to an education, and then you get to qualify until you get into full pay. In fact, there was a lot of talk about trainee jobs. It's the government that believes in them. We never believed them. In fact, you promised 32,000 trainee jobs. It's been 179. And I promise: Although unemployment has fallen, there are far more than 179 people in Sweden and two in Värmland who could be relevant. It was that other parts were removed to do this. The employment phase was to be abolished and additional services were provided. However, the employment phase has been cut far more than it has created additional services. And it is not that those people have come to work. We have many concrete proposals. We did many concrete parts and have new concrete parts. We'd be happy to work with them. But the government's proposal leads to fewer jobs, even according to the government's own measurements. The RUT deduction is an example; it was clearly impaired. But in an agreement, the Alliance at least forced it to be broadened.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-413	Madam President, I would like This is probably not the last time during our term of office that we are talking about jobs and developments in the Swedish labour market. I look forward to further debates. Overall, we must create an economic development that will lead to many more jobs in the Swedish economy in the future. We are seeing such developments today. It will not be easier to handle people who have recently come to Sweden if we do not have strong job growth in Sweden in general. Therefore, it is so incredibly important to work with an investment-led growth that continues to focus on creating new jobs in Sweden. The government is very clear in the latest budget that we are taking several steps forward in terms of extra services and the RUT deduction, which was mentioned, but also in terms of how we can work with modern preparedness jobs to give people better opportunities to gain work experience and also perform some tasks that are not done today. That is the perspective, with a bit of cleverness, curiosity and creativity, that we need now, because we cannot do exactly as we have done in the past. We need to think even more, and we will come up with more proposals in this area. Matching jobs could be an exciting proposal that helps more, not least small and medium-sized companies, dare and want to bring in new arrivals to develop their business but also to give people who have come to Sweden the chance. We are therefore happy to continue to work on this, but again I would like to say very clearly: the Deputy Prime Minister of the previous government says that his party will go to elections to lower wages in Sweden, and also several of the other bourgeois parties have with it. In their proposal on apprenticeship schemes, the Moderates differ from the way in which we have arranged apprenticeship schemes in other labour markets, where there are agreements in essence. The Moderates instead want to go in from the Riksdag and decide what forms of employment and contract should look like. This is a new way of actually rounding up the market partners and hitting the Swedish model. I think it's unwise. I think we should develop the Swedish model, not phase it out.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-417	Madam President, I would like Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me how I am prepared to act to ensure that Swedish authorities do not make a different interpretation of the common rules than in other EU countries, which contributes to environmental impact in other countries in contrast to the generational objective. Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler asked identical or similar questions on several occasions during the last parliamentary year, for example in interpellation 2015/ 16:689 which I answered on 14 June 2016 and in parliamentary questions 2015/ 1477 and 2015/ 1479 which I answered on 24 August 2016. In summary, I have stated in my replies that the examination of plant protection products in Sweden is governed by an EU regulation, that a plant protection product can only be authorised if the product has no harmful effects on human health or the environment, and that the decisions of the national competent authorities can be appealed to the courts. A person who has been refused an application may thus have an examination of whether the decision of the competent authority was correct in relation to the law in force. I feel confident that Swedish environmental courts have the ability to determine whether the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's interpretation of the rules is correct. I am also confident that the Authority will, where appropriate, adapt to the interpretation of the Court of Justice. As I have previously pointed out in my replies to Mr Gjörtler, the government is working to address the challenge of the fact that the availability of different plant protection products varies between countries whose growers compete in the same European market. The government has allocated money to development projects for crops that are grown to a small extent or crops that have plant health problems to a limited extent. Furthermore, the government will be active in the forthcoming review of the EU regulation, where the division of the Community into three zones and the functioning of mutual recognition of product authorisations will be important to evaluate. I believe it is important that we safeguard the sustainable use of plant protection products in European food production and cultivation. Sweden was a driving force in the negotiations on the plant protection product regulation in the mid-00s and had a big impact on Swedish chemicals policy.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-421	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for the Environment, for your answer. It is true that we have discussed this problem and various aspects of it in the past. It is therefore about the problems that arise for Swedish crop growing. It affects a number of different crops. In the debate it has mostly been about the onions, but it is far from the only one. We have highlighted this from equally different perspectives, and that is because it is a problem in many different ways. The most obvious problem, and what may also be heard most in the debate, is that growers risk being completely knocked out when a Swedish authority chooses to make a completely different and much stricter interpretation of EU rules than it does in all other countries. That is precisely the case with the onions. Therefore, plant protection products which must be used in order to grow onions and which may be used in all other countries cannot be used, and this is in danger of destroying the cultivation. However, this is only one aspect. Another important aspect concerns consumers, who I think have the right to be able to choose Swedish quality products. The Swedish products are often very good, not least from the perspective that the Minister for the Environment lifts up and claims to be in favour, that is, we all want to strive for a non-toxic environment. Swedish plant growers use much less plant protection products than they do in many other countries. If we talk about, for example, the onion uses the countries with which we compete up to five times as much of the same plant protection products as we in Sweden are about to completely ban. It is clear that this is not good for consumers. They cannot therefore buy Swedish products that have been produced in a more environmentally friendly way and are obliged to buy imported products using more of this plant protection product. However, the aspect that I want to highlight above all and which is the issue itself in this interpellation is the more pure environmental perspective. After all, we in Parliament have agreed on the so-called generational goal. The generational goal says that we will hand over to the next generation a society where the major environmental problems are solved, without causing increased environmental and health problems beyond Sweden's borders. That is, we will solve our problems as best we can here in Sweden. We will not solve our problems by sending them somewhere else, to any other country. In that case, we have exported our environmental problems. What happens if we unilaterally prohibit our growers from using plant protection products, and Swedish consumers instead buy imported products from other countries where these plant protection products are used and to a much greater extent, is precisely that: we export our environmental impact. I find it a little sad that the Minister for the Environment does not, after all, answer the question I ask, that is, how the Minister is prepared to act so that we do not export our environmental impact precisely linked to these issues of the Chemicals Inspectorate and crop production. The record number the other year for how much onion was grown in Sweden was 65 000 tonnes. If it is to be grown elsewhere and we use five times as much plant protection products as we do in Sweden in Swedish cultivation, it is obvious that there will be a very significant export of our environmental impact to another country. What is happening right now is bad for growers, it is bad for consumers and it is bad for the environment. I have asked several times in the debates we have had how the Minister and the Government want to solve this problem. I have to say that there are very few answers to that question, and I do not feel that there is an answer to what the Minister wants to do to prevent us from exporting environmental problems.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-429	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind you why we have at all created a system in the European Union for the evaluation of active substances in plant protection products and for plant protection products. It is because these chemicals have been developed to kill or inhibit living organisms, because they spread directly into nature and because there can be residues left in food that we consume. I am fundamentally very pleased that the EU Plant Protection Products Regulation provides a high level of protection for those working in agriculture, for us consumers who eat food, for our surface and groundwater and for animal and plant life. The implementation of the Regulation contributes significantly to the achievement of the environmental quality objective Non-toxic environment and thus also to the generational objective. In the forthcoming revision of the regulation, which would have been in progress but is late, the government attaches particular importance to analysing the impact of the regulation on competitiveness. With such an analysis at the bottom, it will be possible to initiate a discussion with the other EU countries on the possible development of the Regulation. The solution cannot, of course, be that the government is asking the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate to violate the regulations, which Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler repeatedly calls on me to do. As I said, a revision of the regulation is under way, and I can promise Members that the government will be active in this review.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-433	Madam President, I would like I think we agree, the Minister for the Environment and I, on the many advantages of having a common chemicals policy, of which the plant health regulation is part. The idea of this is that we should have a coherent policy for the whole of Europe. In the large single market, we shall have the same rules. The problem arises when Swedish authorities do a completely different interpretation than they do in all other countries. Then we do not have a common policy in this area. You cannot simply be completely tone-deaf and refer to the fact that you think that the Authority has made a correct interpretation when all other countries make a completely different interpretation. This has been tried in court. I would like to say this: I do not think it can be shown that the authority would have violated the rule. That's not what I'm trying to say at all. What I am saying is, instead, that the authority could have made a completely different interpretation of the rules, namely the interpretation that has been made in all other countries. Here is the basic problem. The Swedish authority does not care about the Swedish interests in this. I think it is a problem for the environment and for the generational goal. I find it difficult to put it all together when the Minister for the Environment says that this system contributes to our meeting the generational goal. If we export our environmental impact by importing, instead of producing, 65 000 tonnes of onions from countries where we use five times as much plant protection products as we do here in Sweden, it is nothing more than a pure export of our environmental impact. It's a clear violation of the generational goal. I am surprised that the Minister for the Environment does not see it, and I hope she will take the question with her and look at it again. Finally, I would like to say that this is not just about onions. This is ultimately all about food production. It is about the Chemicals Inspectorate on other crops, and it is also about other authorities. We must have a system in which we have a common ground on the whole European market. Otherwise, we'll take out our food production.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-439	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member says, we agree that the rules of the game should be laid down at European level. In response to Jacobsson Gjörtler's claim that there is an ongoing attack on Swedish cultivation through the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's strong overinterpretation of EU rules, I have asked Kemi to compile a compilation of environmental court rulings since 2013. These are ten judgments. In most cases, seven, the Court agrees with the interpretations and assessments made by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. On this basis, I find Jacobsson Gjörtler's description of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate's investigation work and its compliance with EU rules strange. I would like to appeal to Mr Gjörtler to increase the accuracy of the statements made in future parliamentary questions and interpellations. It is important for the debate to be seen as credible by the citizens.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-441	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of the Environment. I would like to repeat what I was discussing in my previous speech. I'm sure there are judgments-- seven out of ten, or what you said-- in the Environmental Court that show that the Authority has not done wrong. That's not what I was trying to argue here. What I have said is that the authority could have made a different interpretation, and that is the problem. The Swedish authority makes a completely different interpretation than in other countries. It may be legally okay and therefore not be questionable in a court of law. But that does not mean that the interpretation is right in principle. Another interpretation could have been made which would not have led us to export our environmental impact to other countries, as happens in this case. I hope the Minister for the Environment will take this along and think about another lap. I am sure we have reason to come back to the questions.
i-c22af51d676b29eb-443	Madam President, I would like If European rules aimed at creating a common competitive position within Europe do not achieve this objective, the evaluation will also be held on the European stage. Such an evaluation is under way. Unfortunately, it is late, but the government has already begun its work. I promise that we will be very active in the debate at European level, where it belongs.
