i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-0	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! As chairman of the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, it is a great pleasure for me to present to the House the committee's unanimous proposal for a new Ombudsman. Let me first remind the House, however, that this year it is 207 years since the JO office was set up and 206 years since the first Ombudsman of Justice was elected, Lars Augustin Mannerheim. Since then, the Ombudsman has been responsible for overseeing the authorities and ensuring that they comply with laws and other provisions in their activities. This review is part of the parliamentary power of control and an important force to ensure that good quality and legal certainty prevail in the public administration. The JO office, like the Constitutional Committee, is a product of the 1809 state overthrow. By the coup d'état at Stockholm Palace on March 13, 1809, Gustav IV Adolf was deposed and the Gustavian autocracy ended. In the new constitution drawn up, the 1809 form of government, several tools were created to review and balance the power of the government. The KU was set up to review the government, while the JO was set up to review the public administration on behalf of its citizens. Another product of 1809, which I sometimes refer to, is Fänrik Ståls saganer, Johan Ludvig Runeberg's great epic about the Finnish war, which ended with the Swedish Empire blowing up and Finland going to Russia. There is a poem called the Governor, which is just about how important it is for the state and its authorities to comply with the law. The governor says in the poem to a Russian general: Here's our weaponless security yet. Our law, our great treasure in lust of trouble: Your ruler has promised to venerate it, It appeals to his support. On a day such as this, the Day of the Holocaust, it seems particularly important to stress the importance of a state which meets the requirements of the rule of law and upholds civil liberties. We have seen too many examples throughout history of how bad things can otherwise go. Today we particularly remember the genocide in Nazi Germany during World War II. In our country, the JO Parliament's mission is to ensure that the state and its authorities remain good, that the authorities and their representatives comply with laws and that the individual citizen can come to his or her rights. It is the Constitutional Committee that proposes the Parliamentary Ombudsman and the Parliamentary Ombudsman who chooses. This is an important decision which the KU devotes great care to preparing through a designated preparation delegation. We have also taken several steps to ensure that the elections are transparent and transparent. Among other things, we have announced in several newspapers that this process is ongoing. After this careful preparation, the Constitutional Committee has decided to propose Stefan Holgersson as the new Ombudsman for Justice. He was born in 1957 and now serves as President of the Administrative Court of Appeal in Jönköping. Before becoming President of the Administrative Court of Appeal, he was a member of the Administrative Court of Appeal in Stockholm. Prior to that, he was a law clerk in Gothenburg. He has previously been, among other things, the Departmental Council and Head of the Tax and Administration Unit, Tax Agreements and Customs Affairs at the Ministry of Finance. He has also worked as a corporate lawyer and general counsel in private operations. The proposal is for Stefan Holgersson to take up the post of JO on 1 April 2016. He will then be Sweden's 63rd Ombudsman for Justice. From the beginning there was one person, eventually it was extended to three people and now, as the House knows, four Ombudsmen are elected for a period of four years. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee unanimously proposes that the Parliament of Sweden's 63rd Parliamentary Ombudsman elects Stefan Holgersson. The following letter had been received from the Constitutional Committee: Justice Ombudsman Lilian Wiklund has resigned from office. In view of this, the Constitutional Committee has prepared the question of the election of a new Ombudsman.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-9	Mr President, I would like to We have today to debate the matter of the so-called forced reception of new arrivals in all of Sweden's municipalities. I was going to start with something as unusual as quoting one of my colleagues in the committee, but not from my party. Not even a year ago, on 13 February 2015, there was a debate article signed by Johanna Jönsson, integration political spokesperson for the Center Party, on the grounds that there had been a discussion about forced distribution. The title of this article is that the Center does not want to force municipalities to accept refugees. The third paragraph reads: A more even distribution is absolutely necessary, and at first sight it may sound reasonable for the state to ensure that all municipalities play their part. However, it is not that simple. Unfortunately, the Center Party and also the other alliance parties which had a reasonable position about a year ago have abandoned it. Today it is only the Swedish Democrats who stand for the view that the municipalities themselves best know their prerequisites for providing a well-functioning reception for the people who are going to settle in our country. Our criticism of the proposal in the proposal is based on several points. I'll start with the constitutional. Our members of the Constitutional Committee have also criticised the fact that this is inevitably a major interference in local self-government. It is also clear from the bill that it is an interference in municipal self-government, but it is considered justified. The form of government states that a restriction on municipal selfgovernment should not go beyond what is necessary in view of the purposes which have led it to do so. The bill certainly begins with the fact that the reasons for the government's assessment are that it is necessary and that there are ongoing conflicts around the world which, according to the other parties in this House, inevitably lead to more people having to be received in Sweden. It may seem strange to us who are looking out into the world as it is not in our neighbourhood that the conflicts occur and since it is not by receiving in Sweden that we help those who are vulnerable around the world. In this context, it is also worth pointing out that around the same time as the bill was presented, the government also took steps to reduce reception in Sweden. That's what you've been open about. The reception needed to be reduced, and it is possible to do so. It is not inexorable that more people have to come to Sweden if we want to help those who are vulnerable. That's not how the world works. It is therefore our view that it is completely unreasonable to use major interference in local self-government as a way of meeting the challenges of an inhumane and ill-functioning immigration policy, migration policy and refugee policy rather than something that must be taken into account. Mr President, I would like to I mentioned just now that the municipalities of course know best what their own conditions are. In the bill, it is remarkably clear that the government does not agree with this. It should be decided from a central point of view by some kind of distribution key whether a municipality should receive a certain number of new arrivals or not. Among the factors that often arise in these discussions are, for example, housing shortages. This has not been taken into account at all in the proposal. Instead, it is argued that the municipalities should have foreseen that we would be x more inhabitants in Sweden and therefore increased their housing stock. So it is obviously the municipalities' fault that they have not built enough, even though at the same time it is claimed that we do not really know how many are coming and that this is due to external circumstances. It doesn't make sense anywhere. Of course, it takes into account such things as how many people have already been received, how many have applied to the municipality on their own as asylum seekers and what the labour market looks like. It is good to realise that the conditions prevailing in the municipalities affect how well people can establish themselves and become part of our society. But this is only mentioned as factors in a distribution key. It is still expected that if it gets evenly distributed it will be good. As long as it is evenly distributed, we will not have these major problems. We'll send some resources to the municipalities, and it'll be all right. However, more money from government will not create more teachers, build more premises, get more schools up at once or build homes directly. The municipalities themselves know whether they have places and whether they have the conditions for receiving more people in a dignified way or not. The state doesn't. No distribution key can determine that. In this context, I can mention that I was in Norway last week. There we talked about their integration policy, among other things. They clearly maintain the autonomy of municipalities. There the municipalities receive people after they have told them that they have arranged places and can receive more. It also works a little better there than in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Local government is severely curtailed. It is not believed that their conditions could in any way reach a maximum ceiling, but it is claimed that it will only work out an even distribution. But beyond that, this also shows a very strange view of the people it is ultimately about. What conditions are there for a good reception for a person who is settled in a municipality who says that there is no room and that you cannot do this? How do you build a good basis for receiving if you force municipalities to accept more than they say they can? It is not that Sweden's municipalities do not want to receive. It is not that the Swedish population does not want to help the vulnerable – quite the contrary. Sometimes it is argued that if it were more evenly distributed, there would be enough places. But already last summer, before the big increase, it was clear that it is not the distribution that is the problem. The cut for how many people were received in different municipalities was 3.5 per 1 000 inhabitants. If you looked at the municipalities that received the least of their population and would get them up to the average, there would be about 2,500 more places. There's not that many. The problem is that the average is far below what applies in terms of the volumes we receive, in terms of the number of people coming to our country. You have to realize that our systems aren't working. They've broken. In addition, there were no municipalities that refused to accept new arrivals in total as early as last summer – and definitely when the bill was released. All of Sweden's municipalities had agreements and had received them. They tried as hard as they could to think they could. Yet we politicians at national level are clearly going to say: No, you can do more, we know that – this distribution key shows that! Mr President, I would like to It is a disgrace that we are the only party to see this problem. For me, it is a deep shame that we are the only party that takes the problems of our world and our country seriously. There is an enormous amount of commitment in Sweden to help, but it is being guided wrong, led into the wrong path and guided into incredibly harmful ways by other parties and politicians. With this, I would like to strongly support our reservation.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-29	Mr President, I would like to This is a good day in a winter that has otherwise in many ways been a political darkness. It is a good day, because today we are finally making Swedish refugee reception a responsibility for all the municipalities in the country. It has been a demand that the Left Party has been pushing for a long time. We are glad that we have finally come to the conclusion that it can become a reality. In a country where we have long taken on social tasks together, such as childcare, school, care for the elderly and health care, it is strange and, in fact, unreasonable that reception of refugees has not been as obvious a part of the common work and responsibility. Just as little as a municipality should be able to opt out of care for the elderly, childcare and school, just as little should it be able to opt out of being involved in the reception of refugees. We can draw a parallel to the reception of refugees in the EU. The vast majority realise that it is unreasonable for only a few of the Member States to receive. There is a lot to say about the race against the bottom that the government has chosen to participate in this winter. I won't say much more about it now. It is clear, however, that by introducing border controls and ID requirements, the government has chosen to put pressure on refugees instead of putting pressure on the EU or cooperating in the wider context. It's sad. The Nordic left-wing parties have taken the lead in doing what the Nordic governments should have done, namely showing how the right to asylum can be protected without closing borders. But just as the reception of refugees has been uneven and unsolidarous in the EU, so has it – and is – within Sweden. It is even the case that the chaos of the reception that we have seen in the autumn is partly the result of the enormous delay in creating the conditions for a common reception. When only a few municipalities receive and it is also free for Frasse fixers to open refugee housing here and where it becomes quite difficult to create stable and good systems. Some municipalities take a huge responsibility, while others, especially rich municipalities, do not at all as much. Today we are taking the first step to do something about this. The Left Party fully supports the government's proposal, but with that said, we would have liked there to have been a system of sanctions to ensure that the municipalities really comply with their obligations. We have had the same kind of obligation for municipalities to receive unaccompanied minors, but unfortunately we see that it does not work exactly as we wanted it to. Too many are still running away. For that reason, I request the approval of reservation 2. But of course, Mr President, this will not solve all the challenges we face. And of course we have great challenges ahead of us as we grow more so incredibly fast. We will manage them, because Sweden is a well-organised and rich country, but we currently have a much longer take-off distance ahead of us than we would have needed. If you cut taxes by 140 billion and leave welfare to stand and bleed profits, it will obviously have consequences. That is the responsibility left behind by the bourgeoisie and which they are now trying to blame on the reception of refugees. Here is the dividing line between those who want to let the market solve everything, leave everyone alone and let them do the best they can and those of us who know that a common society is needed to achieve it. A wide range of political reforms are needed to build our society bigger so that it can accommodate more people. To name a few, the Left Party wants the government to help property owners, both private and public, to finance the construction of rental rights on more favourable terms than today. This should be done by the state using its ability to borrow at record low interest rates. The money should then be lent to property owners and be able to cover 25 per cent of the investment cost. In this way, we can build 50,000 more rental apartments per year. At the same time, we need to invest in prefabricated housing and let the state be responsible for the procurement and costs of housing while the municipalities produce land for investment. The Finnish Immigration Service is then the customer who rents the dwellings on long contracts. One example of this is the Västervik model. But it can also be done as in Härnösand where the municipality now opens 400 places for refugee reception that it rents out to the Migration Agency. Many more municipalities need to do this. It gets cheaper and provides better quality, and it removes the profit element for Frasse fixers and creates better opportunities for the municipality to plan establishment. It is possible to do this in a sensible way. In the field of education, we need to do much more to use the teachers and academics who now come together with the children and use them in school as study tutors and native speakers. We also need to give folk high schools the opportunity to offer language introduction. It is wise, because in many cases folk high schools can and very much want to offer accommodation places. In the labour market area, we need to continue to invest in SFIs in various forms of practice, to identify knowledge and to fill in training. Above all, we need to let Arbetsförmedlingen do what it is supposed to do, communicate with employers and tailor efforts for the new arrivals. For this to work, increased local and regional room for manoeuvre is needed. Mr President, I would like to As part of the workers' movement, the Left Party has fought for a society in which no one can fall free to the abyss. That is why we have safety nets and safety lines that are anchored and kept up by all of us who are currently on solid ground. We believe that this security is important. Many of us even think that it should be even stronger for those who are currently climbing but also for all of us. We know it could be us falling at any time. Even people who have just become part of our society can fall. They need the same safety line, the same net and the same security. But now, Mr President, the bourgeoisie is using refugees as a battering ram against security. They say we should let some of us fall, that newcomers first have to prove their worth before they can access the security line, before we hold the net when they climb. In practice, that is what they say when they now cry out that welfare should not cover everyone and that those with temporary residence permits, for example, should not have access to healthcare or other things. It is also quite concrete what it means when the government meets the cry of the bourgeoisie for insecurity and introduces temporary residence permits that make people dependent on an employer to stay in Sweden. It is dangerous not only for those of us who are denied that security but also for all of us who know that the network can be withdrawn at any time if we no longer have enough value in their eyes. As usual, the bourgeoisie wants to leave everyone alone to do the best it can. It wants to lower wages and raise rents for ordinary people. It's nothing new. That's the way it's always been. We also know who else is next. It is young people, the unemployed, the sick and people who are already underpaid who will earn a little less. If we look at the whining of the last few days that people who earn more than SEK 50,000 a month should now pay a little more in taxes, it is clear that the bourgeoisie does not think that less in the wallet is good for everyone. Those who already have it over should be protected at all costs. For the Left Party, some of us can never be second-class citizens. We refuse to use refugees who stand up against common security in welfare, working life or rights. In our Sweden, no one should be left alone with unemployment, illness, homelessness or a welfare that is not enough. We want to build a strong society where the future feels secure and we solve challenges together. That is where, Mr President, the dividing line in Swedish politics is right now.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-47	Mr President, I would like to Now is the time to create a common reception for new arrivals. Sweden is the country in Europe that receives the highest number of unaccompanied minors and asylum seekers in relation to its size. This places demands on the government, authorities and municipalities. Civil society has made a huge contribution and should really be commended. Tirelessly every day with a big heart and a glowing commitment, people are making contributions in all parts of the country. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the sports movement, which has an incredibly important role to play. I got warm in my heart on Monday when one of those who make a big effort was noticed at the Sports Gala. That effort and all the other fantastic contributions, good ideas and many hours of commitment give me hope that we in Sweden can have more community, joy and trust between people. I also listened to a couple of little guys a while back. They were talking about integration. They expressed themselves a little differently from the way we express ourselves in politics and in this House. For the guys, the most important thing was that they had new football buddies. Well, we play ball with them after school, they explained. But do you understand each other? Yeah, it's going pretty well, they said. We point and so, and football is kind of the same everywhere. Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it's not harder than that. Sport, culture and food combine and build bridges between people. It may sound like clichés, but it's actually quite true. A joint and several reception is crucial to the success of the establishment of new arrivals. For us Social Democrats, it is not just about people having a bed, they should also have a place of residence. It is about young people having a good school and the opportunity to enter the labour market, to have a job and to keep a job. If Sweden is to be able to give people the right conditions to become a part of our country for real, we must jointly take responsibility for it throughout the country. The need for legislation is clear. I want to give a comparison from my hometown in Skåne. The municipality of Östra Göinge, located in northeastern Skåne, has more than 14,000 inhabitants. Unemployment is high. It's considerably higher than in the kingdom. There are currently 454 registered in the establishment. Vellinge is another Skåne municipality. It is about 20 km from Malmö. In Vellinge, almost 35 000 people live. Unemployment is low. It's considerably lower than in the kingdom. There are currently four people enrolled in the establishment. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have high intentions and high ambitions with integration work. We have it because we have the opportunity to do so. That's because we care. At the same time, we have a social model based on order and well-developed welfare. We will meet the challenges, but all Swedish municipalities are required to help each other. It is therefore gratifying that we have a broad majority here today in favour of Sweden taking on the challenges together. We're gonna help each other. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-59	Mr President, I would like to I have a first question. In her speech, Annelie Karlsson stated that it is more than just getting a bed and a job. It's about being able to have a place to live. Dwellings are not included in the distribution key. It is the responsibility of the municipalities; they should have built already before. It's about more than just superficial things. It's about meeting and meeting. In what way is mandatory legislation a good basis when the municipality considers that it does not have capacity and the person placed in the municipality knows that they feel that they cannot actually receive him or her? In what way is that a good basis for fruitful meetings? And how is it taken into account that there must be housing if it is not taken into account that there must be housing?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-61	Mr President, I would like to I think this is a rather interesting question. I can again refer to the comparison that I made in my speech. Östra Göinge kommun is a Skåne municipality that has taken a large responsibility for the reception and has 454 people enrolled in the establishment. I visited the municipality on Friday and discussed the housing problem, which is a problem there too. Now they have a housing shortage, after many years of surplus housing, and are very pleased with their decision to finally plan to build housing in the municipal housing company. I'm thinking about how Paula Bieler views this. Why should it not be possible for Vellinge to build housing in the municipal housing company and to create conditions? Don't municipal politicians have the same conditions for creating housing in all municipalities? Why should it be necessary for Östra Göinge to fulfil this task when it is impossible for Vellinge? I believe that local politicians are capable of coping with the problems of settlement everywhere. I also believe that it is more likely to do so if we help to distribute the task to all municipalities. I don't understand why some municipalities would pass the mission and others wouldn't.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-63	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Annelie Karlsson! Of course you can build a little around the country. There are housing shortages in some places, and there are far too many homes elsewhere. But at least in my world, it is a prerequisite that the homes should be there when the people move to the municipality. They should not be penetrated, living in the streets, in tents or barracks until you have caught up and had time to build. I would like to dwell on Mr Vellinge, because it is one of the municipalities that I mentioned as hastily – the 20 that have received the least number in the past. These are figures from last summer, but if Vellinge had received as many as the average in Sweden, there would have been room for another 154. We don't really know if they would have made room because Vellinge obviously doesn't think they have room, but 154 more would have been placed in the municipality. That's not a lot. If, as I said, we look at the average across Sweden and see how many places it would be if everyone received the same number, it wouldn't be that much more – a couple of thousand places. That is not enough for the needs we have today. In fact, this is not about a more even distribution; it is about an increased reception in every municipality in Sweden with the reception that we have today. It is about our systems, which are already at the breaking point, being forced into further congestion. In this context, I think it might also be worth considering why the situation is so different in the different municipalities. It is perhaps the case that the municipalities that have a good labour market have it because they maintain a balance and ensure that their residents have good conditions regardless of whether they are new arrivals or have lived there before.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-67	Mr President, I would like to That's an interesting comparison. Vellinge receives 4 new arrivals, and if they had received the cut, they would have received 154. With the mathematics of the Swedish Democrats, that figure does not matter so much. I think it matters quite a lot if every municipality that does not receive anyone receives 150 more. It had played a role for Malmö, for example, which has had quite a hard time making sure to place everyone they have received. When we talk about justice, solidarity and the conditions for creating a good life for people, I understand that it is not arguments and discussions that are taking place so clearly within the Swedish Democrats. When we talk about having a dignified reception and that people should have a labour market with fair conditions and a salary to live on is not the issue that is so high on the agenda of the Swedish Democrats. The reasoning of the Swedish democrats always goes to this: they should not be here. There's too many of them. They will steal our welfare, and they will take our homes. That reasoning can continue in your party, but the rest of us sitting in this House have an interest in receiving people who need help and support in solidarity. We want to ensure that they get a home, and we want to ensure that they enter the labour market so that they can make a living and be part of our Swedish society. We even need them in Swedish welfare. Half a million welfare workers will be recruited over the next ten years. We have a lot of them in the establishment today. We welcome them, and we will ensure that they become part of Swedish society. This is the journey we begin now that all municipalities assume their responsibilities.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-70	Mr President, I would like to We will discuss the subject of a more even distribution of new arrivals. It is no secret that my party has had views on this legislation, but in the six-party agreement that exists this was part of the compromise to ensure better reception and lower pressure on the Swedish asylum system. There was a majority in the Swedish Parliament for this even before the agreement. This is part of the political reality. Nevertheless, let me paint some concerns about the legislation. If we look at the municipalities that receive the average, we see that they stand out in two different ways. One type is a municipality of residence. It is municipalities that have a pure residential character and where you have few multi-family dwellings and few rental apartments. They have a strong under-representation compared to the national section. It is both social democraticly governed and moderately governed municipalities. This is because housing demography affects this more than how open the heart politicians generally have in the municipality. It's a more important factor. The other kind of municipalities and the other important factor, if we look at which are the criminals in the uneven reception, are mainly commuting municipalities to big cities and also the big cities themselves. The big challenge is perhaps in the Stockholm municipalities; about one third of the misdisposal is in Stockholm City and Stockholm County municipalities. The reason for this, of course, is not that you have some kind of xenophobic view or that you do not want to take responsibility. In fact, these regions are usually over-represented in terms of the proportion of people born abroad. The problem is another in these municipalities, such as in my municipality of residence Solna, which has a large share of foreign born – the seventh largest in the kingdom. The problem is there's no housing. The problem with the government's rather one-sided view of this is that there are no measures on the housing side. This will create contradictions. Solna Municipality has had a refugee reception for quite a long time. In the past, there has not been a major problem. Everyone understands that refugees who arrive have no waiting days. We can hardly ask them to camp at Råsunda Stadium to earn queue days and come in. We have previously been able to let them go ahead in the queue and place them in accommodations, but it was during a time when we did not have such a large housing shortage. Today we have an extreme housing shortage. There are people who have been paying taxes for 50 years in this country and cannot afford or allow their children to leave home and have them living at home. When they see other people come with zero queue days and press ahead in the queue, probably for worthy reasons according to the politicians, of course, contradictions are created. When 13 asylum seekers were to get apartments in Solna, there were enormous contradictions in the municipality. This is not something to underestimate. This is not something you can wave away with fine speeches about solidarity. These are real contradictions and conflict of objectives. The fact is that we will not solve this problem unless we improve the housing market in general in Sweden. My fear is that it makes it easy for you to communicate a national problem. It announces a problem that is that we have a dysfunctional housing market in Sweden. This problem is being solved by allocating refugee quotas to municipalities, and so it is said to the municipalities: Solve it! The strange thing is that Solna Municipality is the municipality in Sweden that has built the most per capita, and yet we have these contradictions. It's not about a lack of willingness to build. It is not a lack of willingness to accept foreign-borns. It is not a question of racism, and it is not a question of refusing solidarity. It is about the fact that we do not have a good enough housing market in this country, and it is the responsibility of this House to resolve it. No municipality in Sweden can change Swedish construction legislation. No municipality in Sweden can concern Swedish rental legislation. There's no municipality that can do that. Then why do we give them the responsibility to solve it? Why do we give them the duty and the duty to solve it? We must take responsibility in this House and ensure that solutions are found to the housing shortage. Then you can discuss an even reception. A couple of years ago, the discussion was quite the opposite, namely that there was a slight surplus of housing everywhere and that the new arrivals chose instead to concentrate on certain localities. At the time they talked more about forced legislation in the other direction, i.e. that they wanted to choose the place of residence for the new arrivals. I dare to say that new arrivals who would have access to a first-hand contract in any municipality with a low proportion of new arrivals would not refuse. No new arrival would say: No, I'd rather live with two other families in a second in Södertälje instead of receiving a first-hand contract in Solna. No sensible person can assume that. The problem is the availability of housing. Unfortunately, this legislation does not solve any of this. Of course, it is good to have an even reception, and of course it is good that we get an even spread and not segregation so that some places get a high concentration of foreign born and a high concentration of new arrivals that creates great challenges for welfare. But it is not possible to escape the fact that this is a national problem in which the government is unfortunately unanswered when it comes to housing supply. That is my piece of work on this legislation. I hope that we in this House can resolve these problems.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-85	Mr President, I would like to This term of office will probably go down in history as one of the most confusing for voters. Party after party says one thing outwardly about what they want, and then after compromises they are forced to stand and bring forward and defend a completely different policy. That is the case. Nevertheless, it is honourable that we are trying to negotiate in real terms, and I wish, of course, that we could look at the whole competence and the breadth of opinion that exists in this House when we do this in order to actually make sure that we represent the whole country. I was going to raise another question here. As Mr Bali himself has said, it is clear that at least the Moderates have spoken out against this. Now you go a little further than the December agreement and do not even put your own motions for approval, but you are content to put this in the media. One thought I have had, which I also mentioned in my follow-up motion, is that family immigrants are covered. The Moderates are one of the parties that have pushed the hardest to ensure that there are reasonable livelihoods and reasonable conditions for bringing your family here. What is your view of the fact that, in that case, family immigrants should be subject to a reform that involves placing them and looking at different conditions of livelihood and where there is a possibility of receiving them? Should not the place of residence, at least, already be arranged if the supply requirements are met, as one reasonably settles with the relative when one moves here?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-89	Mr President, I would like to It is in the legislation on family immigration. This was, of course, also part of the six-party agreement, namely that one should have a supply obligation. It also includes having a large enough dwelling. You can't just let your whole family move in and settle in one and then show up at the social services the next day and say: I want a bigger home now. You just have to plan. Those who are covered by the dependency obligation, which was an important negotiating point in this six-party agreement, have the obligation to arrange a larger home on their own before choosing to allow their family family immigrant to Sweden. So this is something that is handled in the sex party agreement that exists. I can understand why it is confusing for the Swedish Democrats to make compromises. It may not be common in them, and I understand because you do not have that experience. But basically Swedish politics is about bringing forward the best possible policy. I believe that the Swedish Democrats are fully capable of counting mandates and that they understood that there was a division of mandate that made it impossible to stop this legislation. However, we also needed a mandate to implement, for example, the supply obligation and many other important rules, such as the one on temporary residence permits, which we managed to get in place with this agreement.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-92	Mr President, I would like to No, I have no difficulty in understanding the need to compromise. On the contrary, I said that it was a good thing and that it is a pity that we are not willing to negotiate with the entire parliamentary assembly elected by the Swedish people. I think it is perfectly reasonable that the decisions taken here should actually have taken into account all the perspectives and views that the Swedish people have chosen to have represented in this House. I think you misunderstood my question, Hanif Bali. I am fully aware that certain supply requirements have been met. What I am doubtful about is: how do we think these requirements will be met if we have left room in the legislation for the municipality to be placed on the basis of distribution keys? If we have sensible and well-functioning supply requirements that mean that you need to have a home large enough to bring your relatives here, the relatives should not be sent back into a municipal placement system. Then they should reasonably be settled with the person to whom they move here as relatives. Obviously, from at least either side, there is no confidence that these supply requirements will have a particularly significant effect or that there will be a very large number of them, just as the supply requirements imposed under the alliance government did not in the end either. I can conclude by saying that, since it is the count of seats that is important, I look forward to this becoming a short-lived law. Whether there are new elections or ordinary elections, the distribution of seats seems to change quite clearly, and then there should be a completely different majority in this House.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-96	Mr President, I would like to If you have comments on how the negotiations have taken place, Paula Bieler, it is reasonable that you direct that criticism to those who invited to the negotiations. But I do not see it as an excessive loss that the Left Party was not present, at least when the agreement was concluded. When it comes to family migration, it will not – based on what I can find out from legislation, but also in combination with other laws – lead to someone being placed in a municipality and then can choose to be a family member after that. It's not really going to happen that way. If the family immigration takes place after they have been placed in the municipality, you will not be able to go back into the Migration Agency's care to be later deployed to another municipality via the equalisation system. Family immigration, on the other hand, is important to include as a key. Many municipalities, such as Solna, which I mentioned earlier, have a large family migration because there is already a large population of foreign-born people in the municipality who are more likely to bring in relatives. It would be unreasonable, as the Social Democrats do, to count only the number of new arrivals. The number of migrant relatives must also be included in the total basis of calculation. Otherwise, there will be a rather unfair distribution of new arrivals.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-99	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. On 23 October 2015, six parties agreed on a series of measures for the sustainable reception and faster establishment of newly arrived refugees. Letting municipalities take equal responsibility is not primarily a question of justice but an issue of establishment, or why not integration. The diversity of responsibility not only affects the chances of new arrivals in the labour market. It also affects who he or she meets at Konsum or what opportunities he or she has to learn the language and the like. For a long time we politicians have been discussing how to deal with the fact that some municipalities take a very large responsibility for the reception of refugees, while others hardly receive any refugee. Year after year, some have argued that coercion is not necessary and that this is an imbalance that we can tackle on a voluntary basis. Yet the imbalance has not disappeared. To understand how different things have looked like, you can look at the statistics that show that at the time of the migration agreement, Ljusnarsberg in Örebro County received 134 new arrivals per 1,000 inhabitants while Danderyd, outside Stockholm, received only one person per 1,000 inhabitants. In Danderyd's defense, seven municipalities received even fewer refugees. The fact that the government, together with the opposition, can now bring about this change is therefore not only positive but also necessary for a more balanced distribution between the municipalities. The Green Party is particularly pleased that decisions on instructions should not be subject to appeal by the municipalities. This could delay the reception and delay the establishment process for the individual, which would undermine the purpose of the proposal. Mr President, I would like to As the report states, the number of places available under the current system is far from sufficient in the coming years. The long waiting periods, the consequence of the current system, delay the establishment of the labour market and society. I myself came to Sweden from Chile in 1985. In Nyköping, the municipality that received me, I got the opportunity to both education and work early after arrival and got a good start in Sweden. Municipalities play a central and important role in the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. Among their important tasks we find housing supply, Swedish for immigrants, other adult education, school, preschool activities and community orientation. The purpose of the bill is to improve and speed up the establishment of society, and residence is one of the most important elements of the process. The more municipalities that share responsibility, the better results we get in the country as a whole. If this happens in proportion to labour market conditions and population size, it will be even better. A few years ago, the Social Democrats launched the slogan Everyone is joining. I think it is particularly suitable when you talk about new arrivals. No one loses out on better establishment, but many lose out on people not entering society. There, joint and several responsibility for the reception of refugees is crucial.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-109	Mr President, I would like to In many municipalities around the country, the situation is strained following the sharp increase in the number of people seeking asylum in Sweden in the autumn. In such a situation, increasing the demands on municipalities when it comes to receiving new arrivals may seem rather contradictory. But the thing is, it's connected. Many of the municipalities currently in the most difficult situation are municipalities with a disproportionate number of asylum seekers. These can be municipalities with several large asylum homes, as well as municipalities where many asylum seekers and newcomers themselves have chosen to settle, often with relatives or friends. In these cases, the municipalities have very little say. In a way, it's already a coercion. At the same time, as several have already pointed out, there are still a number of municipalities that take little responsibility at all. This also applies to many medium-sized municipalities, which, although receiving some but certainly not close to the number they should receive. The refugee settlement that we in the Alliance made with the government last autumn included the instruction law that we are now debating. Of course, it would have been better if municipalities had increased their reception voluntarily, but despite several years of attempts at both carrots and moral pressure, this has not been done sufficiently. We in the Center Party, like many others in this House and outside, have pointed out that we must have a more even reception in the country. That is absolutely necessary. We proposed in January last year that clear financial incentives be introduced. That was our proposal and the path we wanted to see. That is also what I wrote about in the debate article that Paula Bieler mentioned earlier. While proposing the financial incentives, we pointed to a series of measures that need to be put in place to make it easier for municipalities to receive. These include full financial compensation for the reception. It is also a question of including in the distribution of new arrivals relatives asylum seekers, unaccompanied minors and so on, as Mr Bali mentioned earlier. The key figures need to be more fair – if you want to call it that – in order to make it reasonable for municipalities to increase their reception. It was also about the need for flexibility in order to achieve a more even reception because municipalities have different conditions in many different ways. These factors are now part of the code of instruction to be decided upon. Of course we think that is good. There is flexibility – regional cooperation can be found to try to reach agreement within regions and between municipalities. The nearly 10 billion extra to be distributed to the municipalities we know has meant a lot to many municipalities to cope with this. In addition, all types of reception should now be included in the key figures. This is good, but it's not enough. We must continue to listen to the municipalities. The housing situation and the acute housing shortage in many municipalities are by far the biggest obstacle to increasing reception. The only thing I can say at this point, when the government has invited to cross-block talks on housing policy in particular, is that I keep my fingers crossed all I can for things to come up with that make a real difference. Currently, more than 10 000 people have already been granted a permanent residence permit in the Finnish Immigration Service's overcrowded housing units. These are people who should be in the process of establishing themselves in society but who instead have to sit and wait, often idle and with growing frustration. At the same time, the Migration Agency is in search of 20,000 new accommodation sites – partly because seasonal housing and some evacuation homes need to close, and partly to remedy the overcrowding that leads to contradictions in many asylum homes. We in the Center Party have put forward a number of proposals to change the entire reception system. Major reforms are needed to improve both initial reception and integration in the longer term. Among other things, we have proposed that municipalities should have both power over and resources for larger parts of the reception and housing situation, especially for vulnerable groups. It is also in order to get a better chain of reception so that asylum seekers know from the beginning where they will end up, can get started with their establishment and then remain in the same place so that the children will not be snatched up from school and so on. Today we are talking about the instruction law. I support the committee's proposal. But we need to keep talking about this, and we in the Center Party will continue to make a lot of proposals in this area.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-121	Mr President, I would like to We will listen more to the municipalities," says Johanna Jönsson – the same municipalities that, despite both carrots and moral pressures, have not increased their reception, at least not enough to suit Johanna Jönsson. My question to Johanna Jönsson is simply what view she has of Sweden's municipalities. Why does she believe that so many municipalities do not, in her own opinion, listen to these moral pressures? Is a majority or too many of Sweden's municipalities and politicians around the country simply immoral?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-123	Mr President, I would like to No, I do not believe that Sweden's municipalities are immoral. I don't know if I made quotes or not around a moral pressure. – It was something I had taken from a debate article I read earlier today, namely. What is my view of Sweden's municipalities and that they have not increased their reception? Yes, I travelled around a lot last spring. I was in about 50 municipalities. They have very different reasons why they have not increased their reception. In some major cities that I visited, even the leading politicians responsible for these issues did not know how much reception they had. When I pointed out that they did not receive as many as the distribution number said, they were surprised. That's really what it looked like. Many people are surprised that this has been the case, but I think that many municipalities have simply not talked about it. I worked myself earlier on these issues in Stockholm City, where it was often an official decision. It was presented with a paper that said something about what it should look like, and then it was put through without discussion. I believe that this issue has been put on the agenda recently and that many municipalities have started to work politically on the question after that. The housing issue is absolutely crucial, as I said, and it must be given more space if this is to go at all. Paula Bieler himself referred to the housing situation and why it is not included in the legislation. It is also intended for a regulation on how the county numbers are to be distributed down at the municipal level. There the housing issue will probably be included, so it is in a way woven in. But of course it has to go a lot to make it work. However, it is not just a question of housing. I have met some municipal council chairmen who have asked for a mandatory law because they simply find it difficult to manage a local opinion. It's also a difficult thing in this. So there are many different parts. I could go on and rabble up a lot more.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-129	Mr President, I would like to It is good that there is an understanding that there are many different reasons why municipalities have not considered themselves capable of receiving people in a dignified way. Johanna Jönsson, like many others in this House, talks about taking responsibility. In my world it is obvious that if you take responsibility, then you make sure that you build a well-functioning and prosperous society. You look at the inhabitants who already live here. You look at the conditions for receiving new arrivals and for weaving a society together. And you don't build it on coercion. It's not based on telling people: you have to live here, in this community—even though it doesn't feel capable of receiving you, even though it doesn't have housing, despite the fact that there are people in the area who aren't prepared to welcome you, even though there is no labour market, even though there isn't enough. In my world, it is completely incomprehensible how one can talk about responsibility and at the same time want to distribute people – as if they were something that can be distributed – in a system that is at the breaking point, in many cases even above the breaking point, and believe that it will only work out evenly, as long as we increase even more, as long as we push on even more, because it has not broken enough yet. Not enough people have been received. I can't believe it. If you want to take responsibility, of course, you make sure that the reception works and is dignified. When I started to think about these questions, long before I looked at my party, it was precisely because I already saw that the reception we had in Sweden was not worthy. We had segregation that was built up. We had interpreter systems that didn't work and people who got stuck in benefit systems. Yet it has continued, and still continues today, to push on further and try to force as many as possible into a system that has completely failed. It is totally incomprehensible to me, and I do not understand how, at the same time, we can take responsibility in our mouths.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-135	Mr President, I would like to To build a sustainable society and to keep society together, I also think it is extremely important. For me, however, it is the case that people are people regardless of whether they exist in Sweden or whether they are outside Sweden. Here I think responsibility is a rather appropriate word to use – the responsibility you have for people, whether they are here or somewhere else, and for building a society that holds together in several ways. Whether you want it or not, Sweden and Swedish citizens, people who exist in Sweden, will be affected by what the situation looks like also globally. I think that's important to remember. When you talk about an equal reception in Sweden, you have to take with you what I mentioned, namely that we have to some extent an obligation already today. We have a reception in municipalities where nothing can be said about the matter which has led to an extremely uneven distribution in the country. These people are already in place. I understand that it is easier for a Swedish democrat to pretend that they do not exist because they do not want them to be here at all, but I have not yet heard the Swedish Democrats say that they want to send out those people who have protection reasons and who have already entered the country. They need to be distributed independently. They need to be able to live somewhere. Having it as in Uppdate or Hultsfred or Ljusnarsberg, where you have a disproportionate number, is not sustainable. These people need to get out in different ways, establish themselves, get jobs and contribute to society. This is the way to achieve a more dignified reception in the current system.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-140	Mr President, I would like to During the autumn, we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of asylum seekers in Sweden. A total of 160 000 individuals sought protection here last year. We all know what major challenges this poses for integration, the labour market, the housing sector, the education system and so on. At the same time, some 12 000 individuals remain in the reception system of the Finnish Immigration Service, although they have been granted a residence permit and should be placed in a municipality where they can start their establishment. In total, there are now 180 000 people in our reception system. There are undeniably many of them. In a report that came from the Swedish National Audit Office two years ago, the estimate was that up to 25 000 persons with a residence permit would remain in the reception system in autumn 2016, i.e. the coming autumn, because they did not receive a municipal placement, which in most cases was due to the lack of housing. So it was before the dramatic increase in asylum seekers last autumn. That is why something must be done. Everything today suggests that the Migration Agency's reception system is completely corking again, and more and more individuals remain there after they were granted a residence permit and would have been assigned to a municipality. It was against this background that we announced early last autumn in the Liberals that we intended to support a law that required all municipalities to accept new arrivals and that some municipalities would have to accept more than they had signed agreements or more than they had wanted. Now the bill and the committee report are on Parliament's table, and hopefully a new legislation will be clubbed this afternoon. We in the Liberals will vote in favour of such a law. There has been broad agreement on this issue since the autumn of the agreement on migration policy. It is clear to us liberals that the principle should be that in the same way as we liberals strive for joint responsibility in Europe, where all countries receive refugees and where the distribution within Europe is fairer, all municipalities in Sweden should play their part and receive new arrivals. It is not reasonable for a number of municipalities to draw a very large and heavy load, while others completely renounce responsibility. But, Mr President, it is not just about municipalities but also about individuals. For us liberals, individuals take precedence over systems, always. Individuals go first. When people remain in the reception system, even though they have been granted a residence permit, opportunities for learning the language, getting a job and entering society deteriorate. They are welcomed into Sweden but not home to Sweden. There is a big difference between being forced to stay in the Migration Board's accommodation and really getting into the country and being welcomed. If the Swedish authorities have decided that a person receives asylum, and therefore has the right to stay in Sweden and build a future in our country, then there must also be conditions for the person in question to get a job, education and the opportunity to build his new life here. It should be quite clear to all parties in Parliament. This is a piece of the puzzle by many in order to improve integration in Sweden and get a more effective order in migration policy. At the same time, the municipalities that take the greatest responsibility must receive increased support. From the Liberals' side, we are therefore critical of the fact that the government – the Green Party and the Social Democrats – on the one hand is talking about burden-sharing and increased resources and, on the other hand, has removed the extra performance-based bonus to the municipalities that draw the heaviest load as receiving municipalities. The Liberals' draft budget retained the performance-based bonus scheme. The government should seriously consider reinstating it in the next budget. Mr President, I would like to On the Liberal side, we also lack important proposals in the area of integration. We ask ourselves whether the government even has an integration policy. In particular, there are proposals to speed up construction and lower thresholds into the labour market. I can guarantee that it is not easy for anyone to get through Mehmet Kaplan's housing market and Ylva Johansson's labour market. We see this particularly when it comes to young people who have recently graduated from the university. How, then, can a newly arrived person who has received a municipal placement be able to get through these thresholds and be welcomed into society? We see a government that faces the major challenges that Sweden is now facing. The proposals that have been presented are either those that the Liberals and the Alliance have previously initiated investigations or those that we have already agreed across the block border. Where is the government's own integration policy? New sharp proposals shine with their absence even though it should be obvious to everyone that the reforms that are now being implemented will need to be followed up by more and more far-reaching reforms if we are to meet the challenges and be able to welcome people not only into Sweden but also home to Sweden. In these words, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-153	Mr President, I would like to The proposal we are debating today for all municipalities to take joint responsibility for the reception of new arrivals is a law that has come into being in an extreme situation. The large number of refugees who have arrived in Sweden in the last year has put great pressure on the asylum system. What we are seeing today is a large number of people who are stuck in asylum homes – about 10 000 – despite the fact that they have been granted a residence permit and are going on to municipal placement. Only when they have a municipal placement will they enter the so-called start-up phase, the phase in which they will primarily apply for a job, read Swedish, undergo social orientation and so on. The aim is for the people to have their housing in the municipalities and above all to have the opportunity to become self-sufficient. Speeding up the process of integration has all of us to gain. That is why we now need to have a law to ensure that we quickly get a municipal placement arranged after a decision on a residence permit. Our Christian-Democratic local politicians were not entirely fond of the idea of the municipal obligation, but eventually, after careful consideration, they have accepted and said yes that it is necessary to take action and introduce the law, which means that the municipality is obliged to receive a newly arrived immigrant for residence in the municipality after instructions have been given. Local government's self-determination is affected, but, as we see it, it is currently important to get people into the integration phase in the municipalities as quickly as possible. Today there is a large proportion of people who have chosen their own accommodation, so the proposal does not really concern those who choose to arrange their own housing situation in their own way. A fairly large proportion of the new arrivals have also done so. But those who have not been able to find their own accommodation need our help. According to the draft law, the distribution of instructions to municipalities should take account of local government's labour market conditions, population size and overall reception of newly arrived immigrants and unaccompanied minors, as well as the scope of asylum seekers residing in municipalities. The proposal on which we are to decide today is the result of the agreement reached by the Government and the Alliance in October in the area of migration. The reason was that, when we saw the extent of asylum applications, we saw ourselves having to act. We saw that the voluntary system of municipal placements, which had previously been encouraged, was not enough. Our hope, Mr President, is that we will now have a faster establishment of new arrivals and that we will thereby free up places in asylum homes. When we get a boost in the integration process and the municipalities assume their responsibilities, we will of course also need a good employment service that can do a good job in the start-up phase so that people get into work quickly. The time it takes today to establish itself on the Swedish labour market is already far too long. We have to shorten it. People are allowed to wait with reduced self-confidence as a result. Those who have an education or professional knowledge run the risk of reducing their skills in the field in question. It is a win-win situation if we get the people out of the municipalities as quickly as possible, but above all if we get them into work and self-sufficiency as quickly as possible. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-161	Mr President, I would like to It has been interesting to listen to the speeches of all those who have been in the debate. Mrs Pethrus mentions what Johanna Jönsson also mentioned earlier, namely that we have in principle already had some compulsion. We have had the EBO legislation, and people have been able to settle wherever they want. This has led to a disproportionate distribution, they say. It could also be said that this has led to a situation where municipalities have had to accept more than they can handle. There we have got systems that have fallen and people who are stuck in alienation. The solution to this should be more coercion, they say. Then even more municipalities will find themselves in the same situation. They are allowed to receive more people than they think they are capable of and more than they have prepared their capacities for. That doesn't make any sense. Another interesting aspect is that we are talking about how important it is to get out of the start-up and establishment systems as quickly as possible. I'm sure it would have been if the systems worked, but they don't. I do not know how many times it has been said in various debates, including in this House. Sweden peaks internationally in various measurements where it tries to see what policies it has implemented to build integration policies. We are great at building integration policies. The problem is, it doesn't work. As Désirée Pethrus himself says, it takes far too long for people to enter our Swedish society. It does not matter whether it is more evenly distributed when it is just a question of getting an instruction on paper and entering a system that does not work. For me, it is quite incomprehensible that a party like the Christian Democrats, which often talks about decentralisation and about listening from the bottom to find out what needs and conditions there are, thinks that we should shift the responsibility for solving this to the municipalities because we can figure out the distribution keys and how many they should be able to receive.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-166	Mr President, I would like to As far as coercion is concerned, we have had a discussion. Our local politicians actually went before the party here, so it came from below. Our municipal politicians in Sweden's Municipalities and L andsting, SKL, said that we need this legislation. They pushed us in parliament. I think we have had a bottom-up perspective where our local politicians have had their say. They have said that this is necessary. As for the time of establishment, I do not understand how Paula Bieler's argument for not having a municipal order would speed it up. Today, these are about 10 000 people who are now in asylum homes. We need those places to begin with. But they cannot start with their lives, with a job when they are in an asylum home. They need to know where to live. What is Paula Bieler's alternative for these 10 000 people who are stuck in asylum homes if we cannot get them out in the municipalities? This is an emergency measure. Our Christian Democratic local politicians would have liked a temporary law, because we believe that the situation at the moment is extreme. But now this law applies until further notice. We will see how long we will have to have such legislation. But what are the alternatives that Paula Bieler sees, if I may ask that question?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-170	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Désirée Pethrus! As I said earlier, it will hopefully be a short-term law because there should reasonably be another majority after the next elections. It is clear that the situation is unsustainable. I do not believe, however, that the solution to this is to pretend that it stops being unsustainable simply because it puts off the responsibility of the state and distributes people around the country, so that even more municipalities fall and so that the reception does not work anywhere. Then there are no good conditions for having a well-functioning, balanced and prepared reception. I think it is extremely important that we are all honest that this will not be resolved quickly. There is no quick fix, no matter what all the rest of you in this House say. It will take a really long time, because the policy that Sweden has pursued has been extremely irresponsible for far too long. Our systems are overloaded. The signals sent to the outside world have led to far too many people risking their lives to get to something that does not exist. It is an irresponsible and humanitarianly disgusting policy that has been pursued. There is not a fiber in my body that is not convinced of this. I can only regret that we are in the situation where we are right now, where people throughout the world are getting hurt because of the wrong priorities of the Western world, which suppresses its ambience by encouraging people to come here. Let's pretend we're helping them by letting them get stuck in benefit systems. We're breaking our own societies because our systems are falling. This will take time. I have no quick fix for this, but I can promise that I will work for a long time to slowly build up a Sweden that works again, where everyone who decides and gets the right to become permanent residents in our country can be built into society over time.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-175	Mr President, I would like to Paula Bieler believes that it will be a short-term team. Now we want to see an alliance government. I'm not quite sure we're going to have to tear up this law. Hopefully we will have a system that will work, and then maybe it will work on its own. I am not so sure that with the coercion this will be a huge problem. Paula Bieler is asking about a quick fix. Of course there's no such thing. I don't think there's anyone here who thinks everything's going to be solved easily. Then I am thinking of what is about integration and getting to work. I assume that Paula Bieler is following the debate on those who come here. Those who come here say they want a new future. They want a job. They want to get into work. They want their children in school and start a new life. Then let us seize that opportunity. The people who come here will also have the opportunity to work. Here we in the Alliance are working out several new proposals within our parties. We believe that major changes will be needed to speed up integration. We did a lot with a new labour market, the RUT and ROT markets, but we will have to do more to lower the thresholds into work. I hope that we will soon have the opportunity to come to power and do so. Nor do I think that people come here to receive subsidies, but they come here to build a new future. I hope that we will be involved in building this in the next parliamentary term.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-179	Mr President, I would like to Today is the Memorial Day of the Holocaust. It's a day to remember and learn from. It is also a day to take responsibility in our time: never again. It is important to recall this when we talk about people fleeing from war, from oppression and persecution, seeking refuge in our country or in any other country. They may not have arrived just when we had plenty of vacant apartments or when we were best equipped to receive them. It is in the nature of the matter – in the nature of the flight – that it was not at its best prepared at the time. We've seen a fall with an incredible number of people on the run. Compared to the past, there have been an enormous number of people who have fled to Europe. In this situation, Sweden has taken the greatest responsibility. We have been a great humanitarian power in the autumn. We have received more than any other EU country. It is of course not sustainable in the long run that Sweden alone or rather alone takes responsibility when other countries do not. It has also forced us to a situation where we have had to change the policy in order for more people to apply for asylum in another country and fewer in Sweden, in order to give us a breathing space. But we should also be proud of what we have done and that so many people have been allowed to come to Sweden. Those who receive a residence permit in Sweden and have asylum reasons must be able to establish themselves in Sweden. You have to be able to work and contribute and build your future here. And Sweden is our municipalities. There is no place else in Sweden you can establish yourself than in a municipality. That's how it works. This means that it is important how the interaction between the municipalities and between the state and the municipalities looks like. Let me be clear: Sweden's municipalities take responsibility. Sweden's municipalities are receiving more and more new arrivals. Sweden's municipalities are doing a fantastic job today. That's where the work takes place. They're doing a fantastic job of accepting new arrivals. They're doing a lot of hard work. They're creative. They are persevering. You can handle and handle huge challenges out in Sweden's municipalities. The municipalities are heroes in the refugee reception we have right now. But, Mr President, responsibility is unreasonably unevenly divided between the various municipalities. That is what this law is now aiming for. It is also based on the report submitted by the Swedish National Audit Office, which showed that there were major shortcomings in the establishment, based on the fact that the municipal reception had no connection whatsoever to the labour market situation in the municipalities. This obviously affects people's ability to enter the labour market, which is perhaps the most important step towards establishment. It is about starting to make your own money, to contribute and to support yourself. Of course, it would have been better if housing construction had already started during the last parliamentary term. I'm really the first person to say that. But now the government is taking important initiatives. We are making huge investments in the budget on resources for housing construction. We have recently taken the initiative, in cooperation with the responsible opposition parties in the Riksdag, to be prepared to try many new ways to ensure that we can get the housing building going. I believe that all parties must be prepared to try new ways and to constructively test each other's good arguments so that we can jointly find ways forward to make it easier for the municipalities to take the responsibility that is Sweden's responsibility. Mr President, I would like to With the new legislation that Parliament will soon decide on, we create the conditions for better order and order in the reception of new arrivals. This is how it is done: You can already start the assessment of your skills at the facility. There is an app that Arbetsförmedlingen has recently developed, which works very well according to the reports I get, where you put in your experiences and professional skills. You can link to grades if you have it. You can scan it and directly get information about what applies to your profession in Sweden. Is there a profession in Sweden, and what requirements are made in that case for you to be able to work in that profession? You can build a CV, which makes it easier when you go on to your first job. The distribution to municipalities is based, among other things, on decisions taken by the state regarding the total number that it is reasonable and possible to be able to allocate in the coming years. It will be possible for municipalities to make agreements in dialogue with each other within the counties. You then have a forward view of how many to receive in your municipality. If the municipality has apartments ready and there is a gap between the apartment being available and the new arrivals the state will pay for the rent. Now I do not think it will be a big problem, but one should not be afraid to stand with a surplus of housing. As I have said before, we are making great efforts, and we need to do much more in the area of housing support. It's about resources, regulatory simplifications and other things. I know that many municipalities are already using the framework contracts in Sabo for modular buildings, and I believe that more will have to do so. Mr President, I would like to I expect that the new law will affect the pressure on the municipalities that have many living in EBO. It does not affect the right of the individual to settle himself. But my assessment is that when you can get help to be placed via the instruction law, a lot more people will choose it and fewer will choose to settle in EBO. The decision on how many municipalities are to receive is based, among other things, on the labour market in the labour market region in which the municipality is located. This means a great deal for more people to get to work quickly. In Stockholm, where I live, the employment rate of foreign born men is significantly higher than that of the male population throughout Sweden, because we have a good labour market in Stockholm. There, of course, there is more opportunity to enter the labour market than in a municipality with a poor labour market. We also take into account the responsibilities already assumed by municipalities in relation to EBO residents, in relation to family migrants, in relation to unaccompanied minors and in relation to asylum residents in the municipality in order to obtain a reasonable distribution according to what is reasonable for each municipality. Mr President, I would like to As several have pointed out in the debate, we will have to do much more to meet the challenges that Sweden is now facing. It's about housing. It's about the labour market. It's about school. It's about adult education. We can do this. It's gonna be tough. There is much that needs to be done. But that is also something that Sweden can do. Let me say a few words about the labour market! We are now working on making proposals regarding education obligations and vocational education. It is important to equip those who may have a low level of education when they come to Sweden. We are working with major changes in the start-up assignment to reduce red tape and ensure that administrators can work with getting people into work and can spend less time on paperwork. On Monday, I expect the first to start in the fast track. I expect about fifty chefs to start on Monday in a fast track for chefs. I'm counting on about a hundred people for the medical profession. I'm counting on about 20 butchers and cutters. And we have about 20 more fast tracks that will soon be in place. Much is being done, Mr President, but of course more needs to be done. I am very pleased that Parliament is now in the process of making decisions on this issue. I would like to thank you for constructive cooperation with all the decent parties that are now behind the bill. I know that parties have a little different entrances to this. It's a giving and taking. It is a strength for Sweden that we can do this in a situation where we take great responsibility and have great challenges but also have a bright future.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-197	Mr President, I would like to One of the things I noticed when I read the bill was that the legislation that exists today on unaccompanied minors asylum seekers was highlighted as something positive and well-functioning – it has actually already worked with forced legislation and forcing municipalities to accept. I did a very quick search yesterday to see exactly how well it has worked. You can surely find a great many more quotes and statements if you spend a little more time on it. But we can see, for example, what the municipal councillor in Norberg, Åsa Eriksson from the Social Democrats, stated last November: We cannot take responsibility for more children. They refuse to accept more refugee children. We have seen that the pressure to receive unaccompanied refugee children at Orust is so great that the municipality does not want to receive more children. There, too, it has been the Socialist councillor who has protested. In Vänersborg, too, it is a social democratic leadership: we cannot handle more refugees. We can't take any more refugee children. We cannot give a worthy reception. This was, as I said, an extremely quick search. Many say that they are unable to do what they are forced to do from a central point of view. Some of these have been put forward as a solution that more municipalities must be forced to receive. That's exactly what they've landed in now. We're going to forcibly distribute all over the country. But it wasn't enough then. It's not enough now. It is not whether or not you want to decide whether we have the capacity to receive. My first question is: What guarantees can Ylva Johansson give to the municipalities around the country that this forced distribution will not result in exactly the same thing that the forced distribution of unaccompanied refugee children has done – a breakdown in the situation in more and more municipalities?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-202	Mr President, I would like to I started by saying something. It is not that people choose to flee. It is not that Sweden chooses people on the run to come here. People come here and seek asylum. Then it is our human duty to give people a sanctuary in Sweden. They do not always come at the time when it is most appropriate. It's in the nature of escape. When you are in a situation where there are major challenges – where we are today in Sweden – is the question: Should we help each other in a difficult situation? Should we help each other? And are we going to make the changes we need to make it? Or should we choose another path, as the Swedish Democrats do? I listened to Paula Bieler's speech. She said that the Swedish people want to stand up and help vulnerable people. That's my picture, too. The Swedish people want it. It is my view that Sweden's municipalities want that. But there is a party in the Swedish parliament that does not want it, and it is the Swedish Democrats.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-205	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to try to stay on an objective level. Let us assume for a moment that it would be true, as the Minister for Employment said, that there is no other situation or policy, but the only reasonable thing is for people to be given their sanctuary in Sweden. Why, then, is a policy based on the fact that this should not be a haven where we provide protection and ensure this need and at the same time have an orderly reception for those who subsequently also want to stay here permanently? These cards are confused. Instead of guaranteeing the safety of everyone who comes here, they will be directly distributed across the country. It breaks down our Swedish systems, has broken our society and gets those who come here in benefit systems and exclusion. It's not good for them either. They get stuck, too. As I mentioned in my speech, this is not done in Norway, for example. In Norway, it is more successful to actually get the people who come into society into society. There it is distributed reasonably around the country, in smaller municipalities. You meet those who come there, but it is also entirely based on the municipalities reporting how many they have the capacity to receive. Others who are granted asylum and protection in the country are given it, but they are not forced into a system to try to be forced into the country at once, but they are given what is to be guaranteed: protection, security, food and somewhere to live. Why has this priority not been made in Sweden?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-209	Mr President, I would like to You shouldn't be fooled by Paula Bieler's argumentation. Of course, the Swedish Democrats do not want the municipalities to be well prepared to be able to receive new arrivals. We could read in the newspaper today about Hörby Municipality. There, the Swedish Democrats vote against building rental apartments on the grounds that if they do, refugees may come and settle in the municipality. The Swedish Democrats are the least credible party when it comes to building conditions for an orderly reception. I am pleased that there is a broad majority among other parties who are actually prepared to take responsibility, despite different conditions and different approaches to this. It is the parties that now take responsibility in the Swedish parliament for the legislation that have responsibility in Sweden's municipalities.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-211	Mr President, I would like to My question concerns the housing market. After all, it is inevitable that you start talking about municipal placements, you also have to start talking about the housing market. When the government took office, the alliance parties made quite strong criticisms of the government for inaction on the housing issue. Mehmet Kaplan practically went underground. The housing policy proposals were de facto non-existent, except for some housing subsidy that the industry itself says is inadequate and does not even want. There were lots of investigations that the Alliance had set up. Of course, criticism can also be levelled at the management of the Alliance. It is true that a record high level of construction was achieved but not at all enough, not at all the volumes needed, even if the pressure on refugees was excluded. Here was the government's answer that what they did was enough. We didn't have to think about that. The EUR 5 billion of housing subsidies would solve all the problems. Then some complaints were made about the last parliamentary term. What we are seeing now is that the government is suddenly making a turnaround and saying that now we are putting everything on the table and now we are going to negotiate this. Then we've killed a year! It is a year in which people are stuck on accommodations, where young people are not allowed to leave home, a year in which the government has been passive and beat their chests and thought they have done enough. One advantage of the alliance government in the last parliamentary term was that we never considered it sufficient. We never said this was enough, but we kept saying that now we have to take new steps. But then the Social Democrats voted 'no' in this House for a lot of housing policy proposals.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-217	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know how to deal with Hanif Bali. It would, of course, be easy for me to draw up what it was like under the old government when the billions were invested in renovating and building kitchens and porches and not in building new homes. But, Mr President, I still choose to reach out one hand. The housing shortage was large in almost all Swedish municipalities already during the old government, which made it difficult for many young people to move away from home, and many point out that the housing shortage prevents a well-functioning labour market. Companies do not get employees with the right skills, because they cannot move to work. Many new arrivals also find it difficult to get out. The needs are very great, and they have increased. After all, I choose not to seek polemics in the first place, but to seek cooperation. The government has made the biggest investments in the budget for 20 years in terms of housing-building resources. It won't be enough. Much more needs to be done. We've been working on changes in regulatory simplification. More will have to be done, and I think that a great deal of new innovative proposals and changes will be needed to get a well-functioning housing market and new housing that people can afford and move to. I think it would be good if we could do so in cooperation between the parties.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-220	Mr President, I would like to After all, the Moderates will not vote for any proposal that contributes to a reduction in housing construction. Of course we represent a line for more housing. I do not think that is where the conflict lies; it is about the way forward. It is good that the government has now become humble and realised that you cannot do this with Mehmet Kaplan alone without needing more parties with ideas on how to solve the housing crisis. I think it would be a bit of a wrong story from both our side and your side if we were to blame this on any individual party. We can see that Swedish housing has been too low for almost 30 years. It would, of course, be extremely intellectually dishonest to try to identify any individual party or any individual stream of ideas as the reason for this. This is like a classic example of how the road to hell is lined with good intentions. We have imposed laws, regulations and building standards on the housing market, for good reason, and it has become incredibly expensive. We have given an extremely great influence over the housing market to local opinion. We've limited the land supply. We have received a constructionoligopoly that drives up prices in this country and where big players are not challenged. All these are important things that need to be addressed, and it is therefore a little strange that the government first goes forward with refugee quotas to the municipalities before going forward with housing quotas.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-225	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you of what I said at the outset: refugees do not always come exactly when the newly built homes are ready. They come because of the situation they are fleeing from, and it is not always easy to control. We wish, of course, that it would be in the way that people would not have had to flee. The government has put forward proposals in the budget that has gone through: the biggest investment in 20 years of housing-building resources. We are making a necessary re-prioritization. We have committed an enormous amount of building resources, both in the form of the capacity of construction workers and construction companies and tax resources, to rebuild and renovate kitchens, porches and other things when huge efforts are needed at the same time to build new homes. We have now done this rescheduling, and we have invited wide-ranging discussions on many of the problems also highlighted by Mr Bali, which need to be addressed in order for us to speed up housing construction throughout the country.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-228	Mr President, I would like to Like several other members of Parliament, I am also a municipal politician. To those MPs who, like me, have worked with budget movements and tried to plan long-term in the municipalities, I ask a few simple questions. How can you? What is it that makes you take the right to use something as drastic as coercion and legislation to impose directly upon municipalities a commitment that they cannot bear? What gives you the right to completely ignore the problems that already exist? What is it that causes you to strike directly at your own collego r around the municipalities? The municipalities currently receive a certain amount of compensation from the State for their reception. In fact, figures clearly point to the fact that it is by far not enough. Several have spoken about the housing shortage. In this context, it can be seen as a very small problem, if we add up everything else, when municipalities should be ready with basic welfare, such as schooling. Mr President, I would like to I was going to take a look at my municipality of residence Norrköping and the statistics there. Nearly one-half, 49.5 per cent, of those currently receiving subsistence support were born abroad. In addition, this group is steadily increasing. Not only that; the group that today receives jobs, which have previously been in unemployment, is actually Swedish-born, not foreign-born. Don't those figures say anything about what it looks like in today's Sweden, about how segregation and exclusion increase and how the municipalities can't do much? Also, do not forget the fact that those who come here today will bring their relatives here, who will also need the livelihood and basic welfare of our society. Of course, this propo-sition ignores simple facts. I do not care that it is the municipalities that have to take the hardest blow when a large majority of the Swedish parliament conducts an extreme migration policy at national level. It is also ignored that, in this strained situation, we can expect the hardest blow to our society only in a few years' time, when, among other things, the relatives of those who have come here today come here. The members behind the bill should reasonably be able to explain to our municipal politicians how they intend to help when they have caused all these forced problems. How will you explain to the municipalities that the increased segregation is taking place and the new exclusion areas are created as a result of your so-called solidarity? How can Swedish taxpayers pay for all this when they are already one of the world's most taxed people? Mr President, I would like to The basis for this is a democracy issue. I simply cannot tolerate a fundamental restriction on local self-government, and I cannot tolerate the other problems which absolutely cannot be ignored. Several representatives have said that municipalities should take responsibility. But the fact is, that's exactly what the municipalities do. Those who should take their responsibilities seriously are you MPs who continue with a policy that rips our country apart and destroys the welfare that generations before us have built up. You should all be ashamed of the fact that, in this context, you completely ignore the municipalities and allow an unsustainable policy to destroy our country.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-237	Mr President, I would like to It sounds so simple when Markus Wiechel talks dogmatically about political solutions. But de facto, the agreement with the government means either reducing the volume of asylum pressure or accepting. I would like to know what the Swedish Democrats had chosen. Would you have chosen to stand outside and leave the volume higher, or would you have agreed to the legislation? It is easy to stand outside and say: Gud! I can be dogmatic here, and you compromise. It's so bad. You don't want to stand by your principles. Basically, politics is about taking responsibility, and taking responsibility means being able to compromise. The Swedish Democrats write article after article about how they are ready to sit down and talk unconditionally with anyone. Then it is important to know if you will be so dogmatic. Will you be ready to make any compromises to solve the problems that exist? The reason for getting into the crisis last autumn was dogmatism, not being nuanced, not seeing the whole picture and not being ready to compromise. Why do the Swedish Democrats want to make that mistake again by being dogmatic and not seeing nuances?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-242	Mr President, I would like to It has been interesting to stand here and listen to Mr Bali about compromises. Of course, the Swedish Democrats can also compromise. We in the Swedish Democrats have previously been open to working with the parties that are ready to take responsibility for our country. In this context, migration policy and integration policy are fundamental and crucial for us to be able to pursue a policy that is positive for our country's development. I am convinced that Mr Bali, too, believes that migration policy was largely derailed a long time ago. If Hanif Bali is willing to compromise and try to reach a better solution for the whole of Sweden, why does Hanif Bali not sit down with the Swedish Democrats and talk about this? Together, we can certainly, not least with the rhetorical new attitude of the Moderates in the area of migration, come up with many good solutions. According to an opinion poll last week, our two parties together could form a majority in the Swedish Parliament by 50.2%. It is a good way for someone who thinks they want to take responsibility and also compromise.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-245	Mr President, I would like to When the crisis was approaching last autumn, there were no opinion polls that changed the distribution of seats in Parliament. When the crisis was approaching last autumn, we had to find a solution. Now I ask the question one more time, and I want Markus Wiechel to answer it. Increased volume or coercive legislation? Pick one. Which one would you have chosen?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-247	Mr President, I would like to Now politics is not quite so problematic that you need to choose between increased volume and forced legislation. The Swedish democrats say total stop when it comes to asylum immigration. We've been straight with that from the beginning. We want to work to ensure that people who come here to our country actually become part of society. That's why we stand for open Swedishness. They should be able to become Swedes. It is interesting to see in this context that it is the policy that is being pursued today. The strong migration flows to Sweden are largely due to the fact that the bourgeois government of the previous legislature encouraged people to come here in one way or another. It is regrettable that, as a representative of a party that has had government power for eight years, people suddenly think that it is a coincidence that people come to Sweden. We can control migratory flows, and we will. That's how we get a worthy reception, and that's how we make sure that the people who have come to Sweden and who will come here in the future become part of our country.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-251	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to deal with the CU11 report on the amendment of the rules on aggressive marketing. I would like to start by supporting the committee's proposals. The background to the case is that, in a letter of formal notice at the end of September 2014, the European Commission has argued that the current wording of the Swedish regulation is, in some respects, incompatible with the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive and that Sweden does not therefore follow up its obligation under Union law to implement the Directive in Swedish law. In particular, the Commission argues that all the criteria of Article 9 of the Directive on harassment, coercion and unfair influence should be incorporated into the legislation in order to ensure legal certainty and clarity, in particular for foreign traders targeting their activities against the Swedish market. The government has said in its reply to the Commission that there is, of course, a value in clarifying Swedish legislation, which is also being done in it. Within the Government Office, a review of the Swedish rules on aggressive marketing was initiated to ensure the correct implementation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, and a memorandum was drawn up. The memorandum has been out for a referral, the Law Council has commented on the proposal and a proposal has been tabled. No motions have been tabled on the basis of the proposal, and the committee agrees that it is an important strengthening of the law in force. This means that the rules on aggressive marketing are clearer and more consistent with the Swedish regulation and the EU Directive on unfair commercial practices. The amendment is proposed to enter into force in just over a month, on 1 March. The Government's proposal for a revised Marketing Act proposes a new paragraph which, in short, means that when assessing whether the marketing is aggressive, the timing, duration and location of the marketing shall be taken into account in particular. Account shall also be taken of whether the trader uses threatening or offensive language or behaviour and whether the trader makes use of a particular mishap or special circumstances known to the trader, thereby affecting the consumer's decision. Furthermore, where a consumer wishes to exercise his rights under the contract and the right to terminate a contract or to switch to another product or trader, the trader may not use practices which are not considered relevant in relation to the contract. There is also work going on within the Government Office, which means that under certain conditions the Consumer Ombudsman will be able to directly prohibit a trader from continuing, for example, a credit advertising campaign, which the committee also welcomes. Mr President, I would like to The committee welcomes the proposed amendment to the Marketing Act, which makes it clearer to the trader what is permitted and what is not.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-259	Mr President, I would like to In the last week we have received reports in the media about hidden advertising in social media, in particular aimed at young people and between young people. It is an important and good report that is being made, because it is important that we discuss advertising in different contexts. Advertising is everywhere in society. That is why we have the Marketing Act, among other things. Today we are going to decide on changed rules on aggressive marketing and the introduction of a new paragraph in the Marketing Act. The basis for the amendments, as Eva Sonidsson said, is that the European Commission sent Sweden a notification that the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive was not sufficiently implemented in Sweden. The government made a review and through this bill has clarified the rules with a new paragraph. The Moderates and alliance parties support the bill and think it is good that the new paragraph now makes it clearer to traders which designs are not allowed. Today, the Marketing Act specifically prohibits misleading and aggressive marketing. Aggressive marketing means, as Eva Sonidsson also went through, for example advertising in the form of harassment, violence and threats. The use of such a commercial practice restricts the consumer's freedom of choice and conduct, which may result in the consumer making a decision that he or she would not otherwise have made. The Swedish Consumer Agency supervises the Marketing Act and ensures that it is complied with. Every year, there are a number of notifications of aggressive marketing. In addition, there is the advertising ombudsman, who is a self-regulation within the business community and who has an opinion board that annually makes numerous decisions based on both the marketing law and other international rules. The referrals and the Commission's letter have discussed whether and to what extent there is aggressive marketing in Sweden today, as well as whether it is misleading or not. And it is stated in the bill that it is unclear to what extent it occurs. But I can see that there are a number of notifications from the Swedish Consumer Agency and very little case law. I believe that the new paragraph will make it more clear to all parties what is permitted and what is not. Finally, Mr President, I would like to remind you that over-indebtedness costs society 30 – 50 billion each year. The personal consequences cannot be measured. In the wake of tangled economy and over-indebtedness, other problems arise in the form of increased stress, sleep difficulties and mental illness. In its strategy against over-indebtedness, the Government has announced, among other things, the need for sharper sanctions in the event of inappropriate marketing. Let's see what that means. Eva Sonidsson highlighted one of the proposals, and I am sure there will be more. Initially, I talked about media reporting on hidden advertising. I do not believe that legislation solves all the problems. It is a lot about information, supervision and knowledge, and I think we need to do more in many of those areas. As I said, advertising and marketing are everywhere, and I think that is good. But it must not and should not be misleading, hidden or aggressive. With this, Mr President, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-269	Mr President, I would like to Many of us here are too young to remember Ulf Peder Olrog, but I think almost everyone recognizes his melody Preserved porridge. Everything can be sold with murdering commercials. Come and get some canned porridge! Everything can be swallowed with murdering commercials, even sweet canned porridge. Why was that song written? Well, it was written in the '40s, during World War II, when the food fraud was very widespread. One and the other ended up in the food, hidden, ugly and dangerous. Today, it is another form of starvation that causes many consumer problems. Rather, it is a financial famine in which a loan is quickly taken out in panic to make it. More than ten years ago, I sat in the European Parliament and pressed the button when we voted on this directive. Now it is nice to be able to sit in Parliament when it is finally fully implemented. It is Article 9 of the directive that we are now introducing as paragraph 7 of our legislation. This addition will then be relevant: exploits a particular mishap or circumstance known to the trader. Someone's mishap, panic and lack of money are being used. You have to have food today and maybe take a SMS loan. I don't think it's completely unknown among people that it can be a bit difficult to cancel or change a deal, much more difficult than you thought when you made it. It can be difficult to call, difficult to reach, and it can be difficult to get companies to actually do what they have promised to do. It is very good that we are finally implementing this legislation straight off. I also look forward to Johan Löfstrand's investigation, which will be presented at the end of September. We will move forward with the financial elements in particular. Work is also under way in the EU. It is not only negative for the consumer, but also for the economy as a whole, when people suffer from unhealthy business conditions that are difficult to get out of. You may get depressed and have difficulty coping with everyday life. It impairs both society's productivity and people's life situation. Now we can move on. This is a first step, and I am also pleased that we have unanimity here in Parliament.
i-LDWz3emSndsQdLyTkdnJx8	Mr President, I would like to As the President has just said, we are going to debate the civil committee's report No 10 which deals with the Government's proposal Modernisation of the Law on Economic Associations. I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved, except in those parts on which we have a reservation to which I also call for it to be approved. Economic associations have existed for a long time and have been formed by people to solve common problems that they have not been able to solve themselves, such as better prices of food, housing and fuel, the sale and processing of, for example, cereals and timber. Insurance, childcare and employment are other examples of things that are solved in an economic association. Even later, economic associations have proved to be a useful form of business when it comes to broadband and wind power, to name a few areas. Economic association is usually described as a personal association, unlike the limited liability company described as a capital association. In an economic association, the goal is the benefit of membership. The basic idea of economic union is not financial gain for individuals but the financial interests of all members. Consumers or suppliers also participate in the business with their own work or by using the services. Swedish cooperatives have been pushing for several years to bring about a change and modernisation of the law. They are also satisfied with the proposals in the bill. Their problem formulations on financing and governance of economic associations have received answers in the bill. Economic associations compete on the same market as limited liability companies and other forms of enterprise. It is therefore natural to simplify the regulatory framework for economic associations as well. It creates competition on equal terms. The fact that we are now making changes to the law signals that the Government and the Riksdag believe that these companies also play an important role in Swedish business and that we see this form of company as part of the future's entrepreneurship. It is important that there is a variety of business forms that suit different types of activities. The Government also intends to continue working on the issue in order to come back with a completely new law on economic associations that should be more transparent and accessible. It has also been a request. Share companies are the norm in Swedish entrepreneurship. This is often reflected in a lack of knowledge and trust in economic associations among the general public and creditors. It is therefore important to implement measures aimed at strengthening the possibility of financing these companies. The proposal proposes the removal of the ceiling for publishing and the introduction of the possibility of investing members. Investing members are a new possibility of funding for economic associations but also a new opportunity for people who sympathise with the idea behind, for example, a social work cooperative or for people in sparsely populated areas to support local service, such as a cooperative preschool, even if they themselves will not use the service. We believe that it is important for the form of association that confidence among creditors and creditors is high. The willingness to lend and invest in these companies risks reducing when risks and uncertainties increase. Allowing work cooperatives to repay more than the nominal value of the operation to the member when leaving the association, which the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats advocate, risks creating uncertainty about the economic stability of economic associations. Like all other companies, economic associations need stable own funds. If many members leave the association at the same time with demands to get their entire share of the association's capital, it can be a major financial strain for the association. The association must give up funds that might have been needed to develop the company. In addition, members' interest in taking part in the association's excess value can be met in the rules that already exist for the issue of an action. Economic association, as I mentioned earlier, is more of a personal association where common interests and organizational solutions are in the first place, unlike a limited company where increased profits to the owners are always at the top of the to-do list. A share is bought to get a share of a limited liability company's profits while a membership of an economic association is solved in order to gain the profits from the business. It is also more important for the collective in a work cooperative that the company is stable economically for continued activity and jobs than that individuals have the right to obtain their share of the capital of the association. The issue of working cooperatives and higher values is a specific issue in this context. In addition, all parties in the committee agree on the need to modernise the law, which provides for improvements and simplifications of legislation with a view to strengthening cooperative entrepreneurship and enabling companies to grow and employ. We do this through better access to capital, easier decision-making and fair competition.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-292	Mr President, I would like to We are talking about modernising the law on economic associations. It is a piece of legislation that has been examined and partly modernised several times in recent years. The current proposal continues to simplify legislation in several ways. Given that there are 15 000 economic associations and twice as many right-of-occupancy associations in the country, these simplifications affect many people. An economic association can have tens of thousands of members and several hundred employees, but it can also be a small association with just a handful of people or several associations working together on something that simplifies their everyday lives. This is done by contributing with one's own work effort, with financial input and with one's knowledge. Mr President, I would like to Simplifications affect many people and are to some extent self-evident. For example, you should now be able to send documents to members electronically. For many of us the inbox in the e-mails is actually a more natural mailbox is the one you have in the stairwell or out by the street. Other clarifications concern responsibility for membership registers and personal data liability. It will also be easier to change the statutes and to decide on the termination of the association when you no longer want to cooperate in this way. It will also be easier to handle mergers of associations. The protection of the association's capital is strengthened by new rules for the transfer of value, which correspond to those of the Companies Act. The entire civil committee supports the Government's proposal but also proposes in a announcement that the Government should come back with proposals on how to give labour cooperatives a wider opportunity to repay members' contributions in excess of their nominal value.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-297	There may be advantages to a work cooperative being able to pay back the bet by more than the amount corresponding to the bet when the person became a member of the economic association, but there are also disadvantages. For example, it can weaken the association's finances if many members want to leave the association at the same time. In addition, existing rules on the issue of an instrument already provide for the possibility to take part in the association's excess values. The government's assessment is that the current rules for recouping operations above nominal value will continue to apply. It is also best in line with the fact that the economic association focuses on the members' contributions to the association through work or knowledge rather than on money as a means to achieve the purpose of the association. This is what is described as the character of the economic union of personal association rather than of capital association. Mr President, I would like to I commend our reservation.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-300	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday I wrote on Twitter that we would be debating the report on m odernisation one of the law on economic associations in order to improve the possibility of operating a cooperative enterprise. Then someone answered ironically: What a kiosk roller! Yes, for those who run companies in this form, it is, in fact, that, I replied. This is a long-awaited modernisation. Some would have liked a completely new legislation, and it is possible that we will see one in a few years' time. For the time being, however, there has been an important modernisation. 2012 was the year of co-operation. Then I wrote about co-operation and Christian democracy in an anthology. Unfortunately, not as much attention was paid to this year as I would have liked, because I believe that the cooperative form of business is important but underestimated. Unfortunately, the cooperative form of business seems to have been forgotten, and sometimes it has also been treated rather rigidly. Former speakers have explained well the changes in modernisation, and I believe that my alliance colleagues will explain more about what our announcement means. More can and should be done to support the cooperative form of enterprise. I called my chapter in anthology a cooperative – to start your own business together, and that's what it's all about. You should dare to invest in an idea and realize a dream, and it is easier together with others who have different knowledge but who have the same dream and work for the same goal. You start by discussing values, and you run the company equally and democratically. To some it may sound too good to be true, but that is exactly what is the basis for cooperative activity. Every year around 500 new cooperative companies start in the country. Young people in particular want to start a business together. Cooperatives certainly have a future ahead of them. They exist in all sectors, especially in the cultural field, the experience industry, the IT industry and in health and social care, and in modern, creative and knowledge-intensive growth sectors. They have the incredible advantage of running something together and creating commitment together while being supported by the members' personal interest. They combine self-employment with the strength of the collective. The legislation for economic associations, which is the common legal form of cooperatives in Sweden, is adapted to democratic ownership. The Economic Association is also a means of ensuring that the influence remains with those most closely affected. Helping each other with work and responsibility and celebrating success together creates both job satisfaction and security. When the business neither stands nor falls with a single person, companies become sustainable. It is no wonder that cooperatives grow three times faster than other forms of enterprise. Cooperatives have a future ahead of them. As a Christian Democrat, I see them as important tools for increasing diversity and freedom.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-309	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that it is good that the law on economic associations is now being modernised. The current legislation is essentially based on the old Companies Act 1975. If we want an economic association to be an attractive institute for carrying out economic activities, we must ensure that the legislation stays up-to-date. Let me mention something about the announcement we are making today to the government. A tradition in most parts of Swedish civil law is that the legislation is dispositive, i.e. that if all the contracting parties agree, one can agree to deviate from what is described as a general rule in the legislation. Why, then, is it a tradition in civil law? Because it rests on the fundamental idea that in here – Sweden's legislator – we may not always be best sent to point with the whole hand in any given case when it comes to what is the best form of organisation or the best legal conditions for carrying out an activity. It is simply a liberal principle that permeates civil law in Sweden. Who are we to say that we know best how each economic association should establish its statutes? It should be combined with as much freedom as possible. That is why it is difficult to understand the red-green reservation in this context. As we heard the Socialist representative standing here and saying, an opportunity is now being introduced for investment members, that is to say, members who are not actively involved in the business, but are simply providing money. According to the proposal, the general rule is still that investment members cannot form part of an economic association, but the possibility is given to make exceptions to the statutes. It is an example of how dispromoting legislation works. Why are the Social Democrats in favour of making such exceptions in the statutes while they are opposed to making the corresponding exceptions in the statutes in order to pay a larger amount to a outgoing member or a member who is withdrawing from the association? It doesn't make sense. Why did they oppose the proposal supported by a united investigation and a united parliamentary reference group? Their party colleague Fredrik Lundh Sammeli joined the investigation and just advocated the possibility of being able to pay out a higher amount than what a member has invested. The question is asked: Why do social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties, who traditionally speak out for cooperative entrepreneurship, want to limit the attractiveness of the economic union as a form of enterprise? It lacks logic, but we hope that we will find an answer to this in today's debate. Why is it thought that we in here are better sent than every single economic association to assess how the business should best be set up? It is argued as a counter-argument that it would risk undermining the access of economic associations to capital. However, do not forget what is at the heart of the proposal, namely that unity should be required in the economic union. It shall require agreement and inclusion in its own statutes. Why do you think, as legislative Social Democrats, left-wing parties and environmentalists, that you are better sent to make that assessment than a united economic union is? It should be a starting point in civil law and in association law that if an association agrees to organise itself in a certain way, it should be allowed to do so as long as it complies with fundamental principles of law. One cannot reasonably argue that it would conflict with fundamental principles of law. It would be very nice if social democrats, environmentalists and left-wing parties could let us know why they are now going against their own party colleagues and a united investigation, which put forward this proposal to increase the attractiveness of the cooperative form of organisation.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-320	Mr President, I would like to Is it important to make it impossible for all associations to pay out part of their capital to a member who is forced to leave the association for some reason? Work cooperatives are in many ways an excellent form of business. Even in the industry that I worked in before, the forest industry, there are some examples of successful work cooperatives. Often these are manual workers who join forces to be able to take on larger assignments and to help each other. There are also examples of much larger work cooperatives, and they can be found in all kinds of industries. Work cooperatives are often better and freer than a job. The worker has more to say than in a job. It becomes a participation when all the workers together make decisions and are dependent on that the association or company is doing well. The loyalty of the association becomes greater than it would be to a company where you are employed. The reward, if it goes well, is much more than just an extra fine Christmas gift when you are part of the rulers. One can influence the development of the business and at the same time be part of a larger community. You share responsibilities and problems but also joy when things go well. Studies suggest that work cooperatives are more stable for employment, as in worse times they often share the work that exists instead of getting rid of labour. This should be seen as positive and is also a reason to give all work cooperatives the best possible conditions, even in good times. For me, it is a mystery that a socialist government does not want to give workers as good conditions as possible, but rather wants to limit their ability to act freely by limiting their ability to pay out of their own capital. Mr President, I would like to Capital in a labor cooperative does not arise by itself. It is usually the result of hard work by the members who have chosen to refrain from maximum salary withdrawals. Instead of being collected as a salary, the money has been left in the association to be used in future needs. Risk of limiting the possibilities of withdrawals, as the government wants, are several. On the other hand, it is likely that some associations choose instead to become public limited liability companies, where they are much more free to use their capital, or choose some other form of business, which may be to the detriment of society. On the other hand, associations are more cautious about building up equity in an association. It should be good for an association to build up a large capital, in which case the association will have more freedom of action. Why, then, is it opposed? In his reservation, the Left Block says that if, through an intervention issue, an association continuously transfers free equity to the members' contributions, the value of the contributions increases and a outgoing member will be able to receive a larger amount than he or she has paid in as a contribution. If the possibilities for an issue of funds have been used to the maximum, the outgoing member will receive his or her full share of the association's free equity. ..................................................... Then I wonder: Has the government thought about what happens if the union has not transferred its free capital, that is, if the union has instead raised a larger capital, to be free to use it? There are probably few associations where there are experts in economics and rules. Nor does it have to be the case that the member who leaves the association has planned this. For example, this could be a sudden death in an association with large equity capital. No matter how much the other members want to give part of their equity to the deceased's estate, they must not do so, according to the rules that the government wants to apply. I can take an example from my previous industry, the forestry industry. Perhaps about a dozen workers in manual forestry work are gathering to buy a forest machine or something like that. By making lower collection of wages, they have accumulated a large amount of capital. But suddenly one of the ten people dies. Then the others cannot give his estate his share, no matter how unanimous they think it, but from the government and the left-wing bloc you say: That is not the way to do it. There are, of course, ways to go around this. You can always find in the association some way to pay after pay or something like that, make up that he might have worked more hours or something like that. But then you start tampering with the laws, and it won't be good. The motivation from the left block that an association becomes less stable if several leave at the same time I think limp. I assume that all associations have a little self-awareness and self-preservation, so that they naturally limit the withdrawal in their statutes according to what they think they can do financially. Mr President, I would like to Is it important to make it impossible for all associations to pay out part of their capital to a member who is forced to leave the association for some reason? .................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is much more important for associations to have freedom of action so that they can develop in the best possible way. That is why we chose to bring the government down on another issue. I support the committee's proposal.
i-8XbC3meeT6hY4qspg1Eu4d	Mr President, I would like to I too, on behalf of the Centre Party, support the committee's proposal, which approves the proposal for the modernisation of the law on economic associations. The cooperative form of enterprise is strongly associated with the centre movement and our background, as well as with the labour movement. It is about a more than 100-year common history of social benefits in cities and small communities and in rural areas. It has given the peoples of the countryside freedom and greatly contributed to the feeding of mouths and the saving of small farmers and agricultural workers to provide education for their children. Industrial workers, lower officials and their families have been strengthened by, among other things, the Cooperative League – now with the Coop brand – which currently has 3.5 million members. Common economic benefit is also what is described in the TV series about Miss Friman, whose role model is claimed to be the liberal pioneer Anna Whitlock, who started the co-operation Svenska Hem 1905. Merging together and running a mill, a dairy, a slaughterhouse, a shop or a purchasing association has been a way of strengthening the individual against the systems, whether it be big capital, the state, the city or the countryside. Insurance companies and banks started once – and are still operating today – as economic associations. I and the Center Party think it is good that with this law we give these associations the opportunity to run their business in subsidiaries and that we adapt the law to modern communication, for example by giving the opportunity to bring in members of the financial association. Many people still choose the cooperative as the basis for their entrepreneurship. As the report shows, and as has been said earlier, nearly 15 000 economic associations are registered with the Swedish Companies Registration Office. The Association Form of Economic Association has a low threshold, where all you need is an input capital, your skills, your commitment and your work, a need you have and a benefit you can offer and what you want and can share with others. Preschools are an example. Secondhand shops, crafts, social enterprises, wind power cooperatives, housing cooperatives, village communities, specialists in health care, engineers and lawyers are other. Many are examples of modern and start-up economic associations and work cooperatives. Coompanion, with its locally and regionally established organisation, is the umbrella organisation of the co-operation. The Center Party and the Alliance have listened to them when we propose an addition and ask the government to come back with a proposal and investigate further reforms of the Act on Economic Associations. We and Coompanion see that there is a risk that members – instead of long-term capital building and investing in their company – will choose to take out the profits in terms of salary and remuneration. The reason for this may be that you have not been allowed to raise more capital when you leave the cooperative than you have put in. This is what we want to change. One wonders: Why are the government parties and the Left against the possibility for the members to decide for themselves how to use their own capital? The investigation that has formed the basis of the Government proposal wants to see opportunities for associations to enter into their statutes – if the members agree – into the possibility for the individual member to withdraw a larger capital than the nominal value once one leaves the business, for whatever reason. It is difficult to understand why the government parties and the Left want to prevent this. Are we concerned that the large, commercial cooperative enterprises suddenly stand without members and without capital because the members see how the wealth has grown without it being able to benefit them? Are you worried that this kind of financial power on the part of the members will give them influence and hinder extensive business activities in the company? It is not the Center Party and the Alliance, because it is not about them; it is about the work cooperatives, whose members often depend on the association for their livelihoods. For them, it is a freedom and an opportunity to decide for themselves. That's the foundation of the co-operation: the members decide together. With the requirement for agreement in the decision on statutes, the risk that an individual could put the whole company in a state of insolvency, as described in a previous speech, is reduced because a group of members would decide to do so. Our proposal is exactly the same as the investigation advocates, as Caroline Szyber and Mr Bohlin have said, namely that the main rule should be that only capital can be repaid, but with the exception of labour cooperatives. There shall be a maximum limit based on the sum of the member's contribution and the member's share of the association's free equity. Now the government parties object and say that this possibility already exists through the issue of an intervention, but it is not quite the same thing. Single decisions on the issue of an action do not mean that the member can expect to get his share of the value growth. The Center Party, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats have listened to Coompanion, who believes that precisely in work cooperatives, where the member is dependent on the association for his livelihood, there is a need for predictability and that the possibility of getting more than the membership effort would make work cooperatives a more attractive form of entrepreneurship. That is why we have tabled that proposal. It is a strength for Sweden and for the whole country when consumer and producer cooperatives and their forest and food companies are successful. Swedish food and sustainable forestry are forerunners in the world and will remain so. Environmentally friendly Swedish agriculture and forestry are good for the climate. It provides the best animal welfare and the best products. In addition, it is a good deal for the members, provided that they are also well paid for the milk, pulpwood, vegetables and grain. So there is no concern, at least not from farmers and forest owners, that we want to improve the conditions for work cooperatives to grow, create jobs and be successful. Mr President, I would like to Finally, the Center Party welcomes the modernisation of the Economic Associations Act. It is high time we made this decision. If the Riksdag makes this decision, as has been said earlier, the investigation has already been carried out. It is the basis for the debate today. It should be easy even for the government to quickly return to Parliament with a constitutional text in line with what a majority here wants, namely a legislative regulation on the reimbursement of membership contributions that allows for a payment of higher amounts than the nominal value of capital deposited into labour cooperatives. I am in favour of the proposal in the report and, therefore, of this proposal.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-355	Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals believe that setting up and running businesses must pay off. Sweden needs more entrepreneurs, whether it is a cooperative, a small business, a trading company or a large global enterprise. It is, in fact, companies that are making the basis for our prosperity today. This is why we in Sweden need a competitive business environment that takes care of the existing companies' conditions and creates opportunities for as many companies as possible to start new businesses. In fact, during the time of the Alliance in power, we received higher tax revenues at the same time as lowering the tax on labour. This was, of course, because we made it more profitable to run a business, to be diligent and to work hard, including through the RUT reform that made many people who had not previously worked come into work. Indeed, an entrepreneurial agenda, in our view liberals, leads to a stronger welfare. What Is Welfare? Well, it's to pay for schools, pay for medical care, and to pay for many other things. You can succeed in being entrepreneurship friendly while paying for good welfare. We in the Liberals therefore welcome the proposal, but in particular the committee report on the modernisation of the law on economic associations. Cooperative movements contribute strongly to Sweden's economy. They create jobs and strengthen consumer power by making it possible to join forces in, for example, purchasing associations. We Liberals believe that the modernisation of the Act on Economic Associations will improve the ability of cooperatives to carry out activities, and in particular that the law should be adapted to the conditions laid down in the Companies Act. In our view, it should simply be as easy to run cooperatives as it is to run a company – a limited liability company. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation of the red-greens on the basis of the motion. SOU 2010:90 was just about this law on economic associations. It was disproved that if all members entitled to vote agree whether or not it is possible to introduce statutory provisions stating that a outgoing member has the right to receive an amount in excess of the nominal amount, i.e. that if everyone agrees, the increase in value that has previously occurred can actually be taken on board. The Government has proposed in the bill that there should be no such possibility at all. I really don't understand why. I think it's crazy, to be honest. I think it's great that Ola Johansson and the Center Party actually saw the flaw that existed and brought with them the entire Alliance on this proposal. Ola Johansson has previously also mentioned one of our liberal role models in Sweden, namely Anna Whitlock, who is today also known as Miss Friman. There are also other people worth mentioning, including Kerstin Hesselgren, who was Sweden's first female MP and Liberal and Selma Lagerlöf, who was also liberal and a member of our party. But Anna Whitlock was Miss Friman. She was a member of the Liberal Party and belonged to the strongest part of the Swedish suffrage movement. She was the chairman of the association that pushed the issue of women's voting rights. But she was also the chairman of a food cooperative called Svenska Hem, where women jointly went in with their own shares to get cheaper food. Could Anna Whitlock have done that today? We must ask that question. Would she have dared to do so today with the existing legislation? I don't know. But at least I know that we should make it as easy and as good as possible for anyone who wants to start a business. We in the Liberals see a risk with the government's proposals that can hamper the members' drive and investment will in the company. If a outgoing member knows from the outset that it is not possible to take part in the value growth of the association at the time of withdrawal, this may mean that there is no incentive to leave the surplus from the association's activities, for example. I therefore support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation on the motion. I would also like the government parties to actually explain this. You cannot just come to Parliament and debate and not explain or answer a straight question from the opposition as to why you are even doing this. Actually, I don't know why you do it. All I know is it's crazy.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-369	Mr President, I would like to It is rarely that I have seen a matter pass through the Committee on Justice, which has been so debated and in its entirety so badly liked from so many different directions and edges in our country. The amendment to the EU arms directive took off after the first high-profile terrorist attack in Paris in early 2015. The aim of the amendments to the Arms Directive is therefore to enable measures to be taken to prevent serious crime and terrorist access to dangerous weapons. The Commission believes that differences in EU legislation constitute a weakness in control and regulation that terrorists can use to acquire arms in one country and then carry out terrorist acts in another. For this reason, it is justified why joint action must be taken at EU level. The problem with the proposal is that terrorists' ability to carry out terrible acts of terrorism never, or rarely, has any connection with the legal weapons which are now subject to strict regulation and, in some cases, also total bans. I hope you understand me right now. I am one of the first to welcome measures to curb serious crime and terrorism. However, this proposal will not put a brake on the desire of a single terrorist to harm our free, democratic and open nations. On the other hand, this proposal will put a brake on the hands of well-mannered people with a gun licence who, in Sweden, are already allowed to deal with far too strict regulations. I read a debate article the other day about a person who was a national shooter and eight-time Swedish champion in a dynamic gun. He did not receive his licence application for a third gun on the ground that he was not a sufficiently active shooter in competition with one of his other weapons. Despite the shooter's motivation that this particular weapon is mostly used for basic training as the associated ammunition is cheaper, this eight-time Swedish champion was not considered to have been active enough to handle a third license. What if it had been the same regulation around golf clubs and that an authority had rejected Jesper Parnevik's application for a new driver at the beginning of his career for not using the iron eight enough? Maybe he wouldn't have had his own reality show in Miami today. This is an example of the fact that in Sweden today we are not dependent on the EU to bring about stricter regulations on arms licences, and of course there is no other EU country either. These issues are best dealt with by each individual country, as we all have different conditions for hunting and weapon training for the military, police and so on. One example that the Swedish Armed Forces have stated in their referral was that training and training with certain types of weapons are maintained and depend on civilian shooting organisations. This is something that the amendments to the Weapons Directive do not take into account. Taking into account the error of the Commission's proposal, the opinion of the Council for Crime Prevention can also be taken on board. It shows that it is precisely illegal weapons that are most widely used in crime. Of the approximately 90 cases of deadly violence that occur annually, there are about 15 to 20 cases involving firearms, and of them there are one to three cases where legal weapons have been involved. Thus, although there is such a small proportion of the deadly violence in which legal weapons have been used, the Commission's entire proposal is in principle aimed at regulating legislation on legal weapons. I read last autumn about a person in Sweden who in 2005 was sentenced for terrorist crimes to five years in prison and expulsion with a ban on returning. After serving the sentence, it was not possible to expel the person because there were enforcement obstacles. He was then required to report to the police once a day, which ended in 2011 because he was no longer considered to be a risk. In 2015, he was again required to report to the police as it could be noted that he had been in contact again with terrorist networks. This is one of several examples of people convicted of terrorist crimes who go free in our country even though they are to be expelled. So now the European Commission is making an effort to push through a proposal in which even muskets from the 19th century will be destroyed so that they cannot be restored and pose a danger. Is it really the right focus to start carve into museum objects when we have condemned terrorists walking free on our streets? I am simply saying that if we really want to reduce the risk of serious terrorist crimes being committed in our societies, my tip is to at least ensure that convicted terrorists who are to be expelled never again go free in any European country at all. However, the European Commission is not interested, for example, in strengthening the EU's internal border controls in order to prevent the free flow of illegal weapons which pose the major problem or for the part of the detention of sentenced terrorists where there are enforcement barriers. Instead, the focus should be on preventing military, police and civilians from exercising training and from practicing their hobby with legal firearms. It is rarely the supranationality of the EU that has served its Member States particularly well, Mr President, and this is a proposal in the mass that really strengthens that image. On the question of whether the Commission's proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity, the Swedish Democrats have come to the conclusion that a majority of it is contrary to the principle. The opinion agreed between the alliance parties and the red-green parties suggests that the Commission's proposal is in line with the principle of subsidiarity at an overall level. The Swedish Democrats feel that the other parties take the subsidiarity test a little too lightly and give the Commission's proposal a little too much legitimacy. The Swedish Democrats believe that each country alone can decide which weapons should be classified as what, which ones should be licensed for the different classes and how the weapons should be used. If there is any action to be taken with regard to arms licences in Sweden, it is that careful license holders, enthusiasts, hunters or collectors should have easier access to more weapons if they so wish. However, it is a matter for the Swedish Parliament to decide and not a matter for the EU to deal with. We can only seriously question the usefulness of the proposal on the basis of the reasons given. It does not fight terrorism through broad action against legal weapons. We question the need for EU decisions to increase the control and security of legal weapons. These are issues that national parliaments deal with better. We are also questioning the motivational statement supported by the Red-Green and the Alliance. The letter stating that the proposal complies with the principle of subsidiarity at a horizontal level legitimises the overall proposal which is so loudly criticised in some parts. Instead, we believe that a major part of the content of the proposal should be relegated to the round archive. That position, Mr President, is best represented by the Swedish Democrats' reservation on the matter. I'm in favour of it.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-386	Mr President, I would like to This issue is therefore about the subsidiarity review of proposed changes to the rules of the EU arms directive, and I was going to stick quite strictly to the subsidiarity test itself. I believe that we will have the opportunity to come back and discuss the substance later. I'll take the most important thing first. The majority of the committee agrees that the proposal is horizontally compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. Then we heard from the representative of the Swedish Democrats just now that their position is slightly different. We therefore say that parts of the proposal do not comply with the principle of subsidiarity, but that the proposal is horizontal. With this in mind, the committee proposes that the Parliament submit a so-called "reasoned opinion" to EU bodies. Some of the points that are important in the reasoned opinion are: 中 that Parliament is in favour of a revision of the directive 中 that it is important that Member States' control over dangerous weapons be strengthened 中 that the control should focus on weapons which, in practice, pose the greatest risk 中 that the regulatory framework should not be unduly burdensome for either managing authorities, voluntary organisations or licence holders. On the last point, for example, there has been quite a lot of discussion on this. There we choose to draw particular attention to, for example, the proposals on temporary permits and medical examination in the case of a permit examination, which we may not really think meets our point of view. Part of the proposal is very unclear; it is not quite clear what is meant. One example is when to describe weapons as similar to other weapons. However, it is not exactly defined what this is. This makes it a little difficult to relate to the proposal as such, one might say. When it comes to the Commission's explanatory statement on subsidiarity issues, we think that it should be clearer for each individual measure, that is, how each individual measure complies with the principle of subsidiarity. There we think it is somewhat flawed. However, when it comes to the issues themselves, as I said, we will have the opportunity to dive into them later. As things stand at present, we choose to support the committee's proposal.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-397	Mr President, I would like to I will not have time to involve national and EU rules. It is an opportunity and a debate we will be able to have later this spring. The debate here began by showing a number of strange applications in Swedish law. We have the opportunity to come back to that in May, not least for those who wish to support the movements of the alliance parties in which we deal with this. This report is really only about one thing. This is the strange word for subsidiarity, in which Parliament has the opportunity at a very early stage to send a signal to the Commission on proposals for directives which will be negotiated later. The examination is not about every proposal on the substance, but about whether the Commission is keeping on the ground, that is, whether the Commission is putting forward proposals for rules at European level. The proposal for a new arms directive has given us some problems. We see that it is necessary in some parts to regulate this at European level. We have a huge problem with illegal weapons in serious organised crime in Sweden, and we also have a major problem with terrorism. The problems stem from the fact that we are getting arms from outside, many times from EU Member States that have inadequate regulations, and therefore we need to resolve this jointly. It is an EU issue. We are all, including the shooting movements, interested in removing these weapons. These are mostly weapons originating from the old Soviet Union and its satellite states. This is due to a lack of rules in several Member States, and we must do something about this. We have also felt in the past that it has been important to ensure that there is a traceability of weapons within the EU in order to conduct criminal investigations. We have previously felt that it has been important to be able to have and share information in order to be able to carry out effective work against these weapons. We have also felt that it has been important at European level to have a common regulation of weapons that can easily be converted into sharp weapons, such as gas-powered weapons. We have been so united that we have pushed through an announcement. Therefore, I get a little full of laughter when the Swedish Democrats are actually critical while they have supported us in being tougher against illegal weapons. It was good of them, though! However, we note that the whole committee is equally critical of the Commission's proposal today. The whole committee is against, even if one party claims to be a little more opposed. Unfortunately, however, there are only for and against; there is nothing in between or beyond. There is always a risk that, in the event of despicable events, one goes too far in one's eagerness to regulate very quickly. I think it has happened to the Commission this time. The proposals we have pushed for illegal weapons have been put in place, but, at the same time, it seems that old proposals that have been rejected in the past have been brought in very quickly and that, in our view, regulation goes too far – far beyond what European law should really be dealing with. It gives up too much mandate and regulates what does not need to be regulated at European level. Then we argue that it cannot be a reason for the Commission to make too far-reaching proposals simply because some proposals are good. We must have an opportunity to examine the Commission's proposal as a whole. Parliaments must also be able to signal when the Commission has gone too far. We are critical of a number of points. Some are mentioned in the report, but there are more things to look at. The regulation of museum activities is hardly at EU level. It is unclear what is actually meant by the regulation of semi-automatic weapons, when it comes to what is to be assessed in medical examinations, temporary permits and trade between private individuals – all this is unclear. It is therefore a good thing that the Swedish Parliament is united in its criticism of the Commission. We are now at the beginning of this process. The matter has not been settled. Hopefully, the Commission is wise enough to withdraw the proposals that we are now criticising so that the EU can focus on what is important, namely illegal weapons. Negotiations will begin. Working group meetings have barely started. There, Sweden has every opportunity to submit comments and create alliances with other countries, if the Commission does not understand what should be done. Then there are national rules, but they are not covered by this debate. There is reason to be critical, not least against the application of some of the national rules. But we will take that into account in another debate. There we are, too. Mr President, I would like to I note once again that Parliament is united in its criticism of the Commission. In this test of subsidiarity, we note that the Commission has gone too far. The process will continue for a long time, and we intend to follow it. I would also like to thank the Socialist and environmental-partisan Members who join with the other parties and go further than the government in criticising the proposal on the issue of subsidiarity.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-410	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that the Alliance, and perhaps the Moderates in particular, have taken a more EU-critical stance in committee. The work done in this direction is very much appreciated by us Swedish democrats, believe nothing else. Despite this approach, you state that you consider the Commission's proposal to be broadly compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. I wonder, then, which parts of the Commission's proposal make up the majority and which make you agree that Europe should interfere in these matters.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-412	Mr President, I would like to We are not critical of the European Union, so it is not a position. We from the Moderates always examine every proposal. That is not all that is good that comes from Europe, certainly not. But we are in favour of what is good. What is bad we will continue to criticise precisely because it is bad and not for other reasons. You have supported us in the past by pressing for the EU to go further to regulate illegal weapons. I'll counter that by saying it was wise of you. This regulation is needed. In the Commission's defence – although it is difficult at the moment to defend it – it has to be said that these proposals are included. We agree that it is the bad proposals that should be removed. It will then be a game of words whether this report is predominantly, to a large extent, or any other part, incorrect. This is not how politics is really affected. Politics is influenced by being objective in every issue and by moving the debate forward. Just rolling ahead of home opinion will in no way help Swedish hunters.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-415	Mr President, I would like to Then let me clarify: the Moderates lack an ideological compass that makes you turn against the supranationality of the European Union. In individual cases, however, you have criticised the European Union, which we Swedish democrats welcome. Now it was not specified which parts of this proposal the Moderates, the Alliance or the Red-Green – the happy gang, so to speak – think are in line with the principle of subsidiarity. A number of examples have been piled up, including the need to have a common classification across the EU, to have common registers. But we did not get an example of what makes up the majority. It chooses, in principle, to have an EU-friendly approach when it comes to voting, but it criticises the individual parts that have been criticised in the consultation document. It is becoming a little dishonest, and I would have liked the Moderates to have had a sharper writing with regard to Parliament and the European Union. So I repeat my question: which parts of the Commission's proposal are the overwhelmingly positive part that is in line with the principle of subsidiarity – this complicated word?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-419	Mr President, I would like to If you have an ideological compass, then you are able to sort out the substance of the proposal. Then you don't wrap everything up in a bunch. Then you can tell what's bad or what's good. If you hide behind pamphlets and slogans, you are not able to make that distinction. Then you have to take bigger words. Our aim is to get rid of the bad proposals from the Commission and, in substance, to ensure that there is an improvement. Then we'll have to take basic course A. This is a reasoned opinion from the Swedish Parliament in which we express our views on whether or not the EU should be dealing with certain things. When Parliament gives a reasoned opinion, it does so because it is critical. That brings up the points against which you are critical. You don't justify what you're in favour of. I'll answer your question. What we are in favour of is the same thing that you are in favour of and that you have supported in the past, namely the removal of illegal weapons and the fight against serious organised crime. Then it doesn't matter if we say consideration or anything else. This is really about politics.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-423	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. I would like to stress at the outset that this is not a simple issue. It is quite difficult to balance between the Union's and the national on this issue. We all know that with the acts of terrorism, the issue is on the table. Guns don't know any boundaries today. It is therefore a good thing that the EU has taken this initiative and is working on an arms directive. I am also very pleased that we in the Swedish Parliament have been able to agree so far that we can say that this goes too far. This is not in line with the Swedish rules. We must have a regulatory framework that is otherwise adapted to Swedish conditions. I am therefore pleased with the text on which we in committee have been able to agree. In the political situation that the whole of Europe finds itself in, it is necessary to address the issue of arms. It is not simply to find regulations that are consistent with the regulations of all the Member States, I am well aware of that. But it is very important that we from the Swedish Parliament make it clear that we are not at all satisfied with the Commission's texts. I very much hope that the negotiations going on in Brussels will lead to changes. Today's decision is very important. Moreover, in Brussels we talk a lot about legal weapons, while in Sweden we may discuss illegal weapons more. There are many parts that remain to be resolved, and that does not make the issue any less difficult. Negotiations are ongoing and we do not know the final result. That is why it is so important that we in Parliament have been able to agree on this subsidiarity test – this word that is a heavy drinker. It would have been desirable to find another word than this ancient Catholic word when this principle was found. From a bottom-up perspective, for example, you could call it. It is important that we in Sweden go ahead with this and clearly talk about what our opinion is, so that the groups in Sweden who today feel very worried – hunters, sportsmen etc. – can feel that the Swedish Parliament does not agree with the European Commission on this point. We are moving on with this to finally hopefully find a solution that we can be relatively satisfied with. I use the word a little bit, because I do not want to promise anything in this situation. Once again, I thank the committee for being able to agree on this issue.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-430	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I do not know whether or not the principle of subsidiarity is Catholic. But as many people have said, it is perhaps a complicated word to describe something that is really very simple. It is simply a matter of taking decisions as close as possible to the citizens. And that's no wonder. I think we can all agree with that. Some issues are appropriate to be resolved with supranationality, others at national level in this House and elsewhere. Some issues are best decided at regional level, others at municipal level. But the vast majority of questions should be settled by you and me at home by the decisions we make ourselves. You have to have several balls in the air at the same time when you're thinking about these important things. You have to be able to keep two thoughts in your head at the same time. The increased threat of terror that we have seen since the events of Paris and other terrible events makes it easy to hurry away and as politicians want to show action and show that they take responsibility for these things. Perhaps that was how the Commission reacted when they proposed these changes to the arms directive, because there were many things that ended up wrong. The Center Party reacted early, and that's no wonder. We are many hunters in our party. Then many followed. Surely everyone who is now sitting here has received a lot of e-mails with questions and rather sharp comments from many who would be affected by different parts of this draft arms directive. It is gratifying that we have been able to have a reasoning tone and a good discussion on this in committee. I feel that there is an honest will from the government parties to listen to good arguments, and that is a very good basis to work on. But this is a small part of a pretty big blow. The battle is not won at all with this. I hope and assume that the government parties are now pursuing this path and working against the bad parts of this arms directive. As I was talking about, certain issues are suitable for supranationality. One such question is, for example, how we destroy weapons that are to be considered permanently unfit. There are very different traditions and different views on this between different Member States of the European Union. In some countries it is enough to put a small diocese in place, but this can actually be removed, something that has also happened, which has led to a great deal of damage. In Sweden, however, there are very strict rules on how this should be handled. A few years ago, I inherited an old weapon from my grandfather, who in turn had inherited it from his father, perhaps even from his grandfather. This weapon can no longer be used for hunting. It's a black powder weapon, like the old days. When you shoot with a gun like that, there's a lot of smoke. It might have been nice to try it at some point, but for me to keep it as a collective weapon, I had to destroy it. What you do then is fill the pipe with concrete and weld it back so that the weapon cannot be used again. But it stands there beautifully in the corner and reminds me of Grandpa, from whom I have very many positive memories. In addition, the gunsmith who did this promised that I could go along with him at some point and shoot black powder along with him, so-called sighting, which is perfectly legal. With that, I would like to thank you for the spirit of cooperation. I hope that we will continue to do this, because, as I said, the battle is far from being won.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-437	Mr President, I would like to This case concerns a so-called aptitude test on the basis of the Commission's proposal. As many people have mentioned, it is about what the EU should make decisions about and what the Swedish Parliament should be responsible for with regard to the arms directive. The background is that the Commission wants to act against terrorism. Most of us have welcomed the EU's action, not least after the events in Paris a year ago and last autumn. But in the proposal – after all, it is difficult not to go into the proposal, and I also hear this from the debate in this House – it is not clear and concrete how to focus on terrorism. The terrorists I have read about, those who are not alive and those who continue to ravage, have not requested permission or license to put on a belt and blow themselves up or shoot down people sitting in a café. It is clear that this Commission proposal has serious shortcomings if it is to be used for counter-terrorism purposes. Liberals agree that the EU must do more to counter terrorism and radicalisation, and the issue of arms is important. However, we must concentrate our efforts and the resources of the police on stopping the illegal weapons, which several have been involved in. In Parliament, we have exercised from our party on reinforced arms law, stricter legislation against hand grenades and a smuggling law. That would have a much greater impact for that we want to achieve. With regard to illegal weapons, mention must also be made of the Western Balkans and Exjugoslavia. I myself have courted Bosnia's ambassador to discuss arms smuggling, hand grenades and the growing problems in our Swedish cities, not least Malmö and other cities in Skåne, which have been exposed to this type of illegal weapon. This is also where the EU can make a contribution, not least bilaterally towards Bosnia, for example, who has also applied for EU membership. Like several heavy consultation bodies, the Liberals are critical and doubtful about the form of the proposal. Here we have also had a discussion with the government. It has not been clear what Anders Ygeman and the government think on this issue. From being cautiously positive, we have become extremely critical, and when the Committee on Justice finally deals with the issue, we have not got a clear position. However, we welcome the fact that there is broad support for giving a so-called reasoned opinion to the Commission where we are critical. Mr President, I would like to My conclusion is in line with the opinion of the Crime Prevention Council. If the measures are to be effective, the proposal needs to be revised in order to be more accurate. It is the illegal weapons we want most, but the directive mainly meets the legal weapons of fire, which is a shortcoming. After all, illegal weapons are the main problem.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-443	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats share the views and views expressed in this House by several previous debaters. The principle of subsidiarity is an important principle which we in the Christian Democrats have included in our programme of principles. It is part of our ideology. The principle of subsidiarity, which has been mentioned several times, is based on taking decisions as close as possible to the citizens, at the lowest and most appropriate level. Now we are talking about the European level, where we have the Commission's proposal. When it comes to combating serious organised crime and terrorism, we think it is important to have intergovernmental cooperation within the framework of the European Union. Force must be taken together against those forces that want to spread fear and unrest and resort to illegal weapons in their fight. That is why it is important to work together at European level. At the same time, however, we must ensure that the fight against illegal weapons is fought precisely and not so broadly against legal weapons, as the report points out, where there is a large majority in favour of a reasoned opinion. We're not going to poke in the legal weapons. When it comes to, for example, regulating museum objects, we think it goes far too far. We therefore welcome the reasoned opinion. We also need to protect the interests of hunters and sportsmen so that they are not hit by the measures we want to see. We will prevent terrorism and serious organised crime. The proposal must be revised. Measures are necessary, but they must be right. That is why we Christian Democrats are pleased and welcome the fact that there is such broad support for a reasoned opinion in this case.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-448	Mr President, I would like to I have been listening a little to the representatives of the various parties involved in the debate. They all argue that it is problematic that the European Commission's proposal contains such detailed rules on legal weapons handled by hunters, sportsmen and everything possible and that it is the illegal weapons that are the problem. At the same time, you agree that it is in line with the principle of subsidiarity that the EU should interfere with arms legislation on how to deal with legal weapons in Sweden. I'm not really making ends meet. It's a little problematic to try to stand with one leg in each camp. On the one hand, you think: We shouldn't be messing with those questions. At the same time, they say: It is perfectly all right for the EU to do so, but come back with another letter for the next round. It would be more honest if the parties who say that it is wrong also said that it does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. I would like clarification. How does the logic go together for the Christian Democrats?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-452	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Adam Marttinen, for asking for clarification. I'll try to give it. When it comes to serious organised crime, terrorism and the joint fight against those forces that want to spread fear, anxiety and terror in the EU and Europe and also pose threats to Sweden, we must have intergovernmental cooperation. We must take strong action and work together to counter the illegal weapons. We must also ensure that legal weapons are not used in our fight. We must focus our efforts on preventing terrorism and serious organised crime. When it comes to what is highlighted in the committee's position in our report on the temporary permits, medical examinations, museum objects and the parts that are unclear and incomplete, we have strong criticism of the European Commission's proposal. It should be the right agenda in Brussels, and the European Union should devote itself to the right things. That is why, as I said in my speech, we believe that there are strong reasons for a reasoned opinion and that the Commission is recasting its proposal.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-455	Mr President, I would like to We all agree that it is the illegal weapons that are the problem and that is where the focus should be. I also hear that parties say that one should not devote oneself to the things that are exemplified. With your line-up, you will soon be in the whole Commission proposal where you think it is the wrong focus. The result should then be to send that signal to the EU and the rest of the world that it is not something that Sweden accepts that the EU interferes with. For example, in the case of illegal weapons, measures could be taken against those countries that have problems with their legal arms management rather than punishing all other countries that do not have a legal arms management problem. Unfortunately, I think that your criticism of the European Commission's proposal is a little blurry when it is said at the end of the letter that it is perfectly acceptable that it should be concerned with legislating to the Swedish Parliament on these issues. You're saying it's supposed to be intergovernmental cooperation. It is not at all. We don't own the power. Our wishes and opinions weigh very easily in a European perspective. That is why it is important that we are particularly clear about what we are talking about. I do not think that any party other than the Swedish Democrats has so far been in this House and in the handling of the directive.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-458	Mr President, I would like to When, in principle, a parliament agrees with a reasoned opinion that it is too detailed, I would think it is rather naive to say that it is not a clear signal from Sweden and the Swedish parliament. That is a very clear signal that it should be the right agenda in Brussels. The EU should work together to combat the forces that want to resort to terrorism and combat serious organised crime, but should not engage in museum objects, medical examinations and matters that are the responsibility of the Member States. We write, as Adam Marttinen calls for, that we do not accept that Europe interferes with it. We say that overall it is compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. On a horizontal level, we Christian Democrats believe that it is necessary for us to work together and take joint action against serious organised crime and terrorism. We also write that at the same time in several parts it conflicts with this principle. I don't know how much clearer Adam Marttinen wants us to write. We can add a few words to the effect that we find it very problematic. We can amplify it as much as we can. When, in principle, a united parliament supports the reasoned opinion and marks so clearly and forcefully, I now expect that we will receive a response from the Commission and that we can change that. It is ultimately the responsibility of the government in the negotiations and talks that are waiting to influence the content of the proposal. But the signal from the Committee on Justice and the Riksdag is clear, Mr President.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-463	Mr President, I would like to Through the millenniums, women have worked for peace and reconciliation. But they have rarely or never been able to participate where they have really been able to prevent war in official peace negotiations, to sit at the tables or to attend the formal talks. Giving more power to women in peace processes is one of the main objectives of UN Security Resolution 1325. It is not only undemocratic but also ineffective to exclude half of the world's population on life and death, war and peace issues and to deal with them without taking advantage of women's experiences and without allowing women to sit at the table. If we do not take this into account and do not take the issues seriously, it will continue to be difficult to achieve peace and reconciliation. The resolution was adopted 15 years ago. It has been recognised in the past year 2015. It has developed gradually. We have also received a special resolution on sexual violence against women in conflicts. The original resolution has helped to focus on women's role in peace work and on women's role as victims. What is important here is to see the whole picture and not just to see that women and girls should be protected in war and conflict, but that women and girls are just actors and not just some to be protected. Sweden adopted its own national action plan for 1325 at an early stage. What we have at present has actually gone out with the fact that we now have 27 January. As I understand it, it is under review. We in the committee agree and assume that the government will, as soon as possible, revise and establish a new action plan that can apply from 2016 onwards. It is important to continue to focus on the issues. Let's see what the results are. It was done last year. The Secretary-General instructed the review to see what has actually happened over the years. What has been the result? What the report says is that in some areas success has been achieved. But what is still lacking is, above all, the participation of women in the peace process. I would like to pay particular tribute to the government for the initiative to develop women mediators. It will not happen by itself. On every point in this area, something must be done actively. It is therefore important to have a national action plan. But it is also important to see how we can now focus on the international work, where female mediators are part and where the other parts of the Folke Bernadotte Academy's work are another important part. We have a special competence here in Sweden, a Nordic centre for genders in military operations out in Kungsängen, which deals with education in these matters and with policy work. It is therefore a question of developing how to implement the fine words contained in the UN resolutions and in the action plans. The Centre has also been involved in evaluating the operation of the UN resolution in ISAF, i.e. throughout the Afghanistan operation, and in Kosovo, in Kfor. Recommendations have also been made to NATO, which NATO has adopted. I think this shows the importance of knowledge in this area and the importance of not losing momentum. Here, Sweden is the driving force, and we can continue to be even more proactive in the work where we are represented. This applies to various UN bodies, the direct UN actions in which we are involved, both civilian and military, and within the framework of the European Union. It is gratifying that there should now be a high-level representative on the initiative of Sweden, among others, to monitor these issues. All in all, Mr President, I believe that we have broad support from this Parliament for the government. I think that the government should see this as a call to further strengthen its work on implementing the UN resolution and the points and recommendations that also come after the review that was made in connection with last year – the one that was done on behalf of Ban Ki Moon. There is broad support, and there is a great deal of interest. As I said, it is important to keep up the pressure, because this is nothing that comes of its own accord. 15 years is both a long and a short time. However, since the resolution in its original form was adopted by the Security Council, it has been shown that this type of international agreement and then the implementation of Security Council resolutions also produce results, although much remains to be done. For time winning in the vote, I will not claim approval for the reservation.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-475	Mr President, I would like to Security policy is not gender neutral. The threats to the safety of men and women are different. Wars and armed conflicts affect men and women in different ways and to different degrees. A peace process leading to the cessation of violence against men does not automatically mean that violence against women will end at the same time. The examples are too many around the earth. When I was in Jordan in December, I was told how children's marriages were greatly increased among Syrian refugees. Too many Syrian parents saw forced marriage as the only way to protect their 14-year-old daughter from men's sexualized violence and abuse. In Afghanistan, 35 years of war have resulted in one of the highest levels of maternal mortality in the world. Despite the impressive work of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee and other important donors, getting pregnant today is far more dangerous than being a soldier in Afghanistan. We see in country after country, in conflict after conflict, how armed conflicts go hand in hand with increased maternal mortality. In Liberia, 60 percent of women say they were raped and subjected to sexualised violence during the previous civil war. Many say that they have been raped repeatedly. The sexualised violence in Liberia reached levels where we can talk about this as a weapon of mass destruction. But while men have laid down their weapons, stopped shooting at each other and started a laborious peace and reconciliation process, violence against women in Liberia continues to a large extent. Too many Liberian women are still waiting for peace to come to their lives and their daily lives. But women and girls are not just victims; it is important to stress. They are not passive, and they are not waiting for someone else to come and save them. In Syria, Palestine and Afghanistan, extremely courageous women and girls are organizing with others and fighting in their local communities for peace. In Colombia and Liberia, women and girls have played a crucial role in the peace processes we have seen. Women and girls are active actors around the globe! We know, as Karin Enström stressed earlier, that peace and reconciliation processes need to include women and girls at the negotiating table if they are to be successful. It is important to recall this, especially at a time when we are entering arduous peace processes in countries such as Afghanistan and Syria. We must see that in the world in which we live, we men are the norm and women are the exception. Without a gender perspective and without making visible the different conditions of men and women, the risk is imminent that we will start from men's experiences when discussing armed conflicts, peace processes and security policy. Then we will have UN efforts that close their eyes to the fact that the male UN soldiers are assaulting young girls and contributing to trafficking. Then we will have peace talks where there are only men sitting around the negotiating table. Then we will never be able to present a security policy or a foreign policy for peace and security covering the entire population of the earth. Mr President, I would like to It has now been over 16 years since the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. It has been a crucial step in the international community's work for peace and security, but also in developing a security policy that includes the entire world's population. Sweden adopted its first action plan in 2006 in relation to Resolution 1325, and the action plan has since been extended again and again. The new government has clearly raised the level of ambition. It may not have been so difficult; Carl Bildt will probably not be remembered for his strong commitment to girls and women. At the same time, however, it has to be said that the government has taken some real initiatives that are impressive, including with regard to women mediators. At the same time, it must be stressed that the work has not come to the end of the road. There is scope for developing Sweden's work as well. Looking at the action plan currently in place, or rather the one that expired at the end of the year, for 1325, it is clear that there is no clear timetable, effective control systems and earmarked resources for implementing the action plan. These are issues that I hope the government will take with it and provide for when a new action plan is drawn up. The previous action plan in Sweden had three objectives and seven national indicators for the work on 1325 and how it should be developed. It was good that indicators were developed, but I think there is scope to develop the measurable targets. A key issue for the development of a successful action plan is the existence of indicators and targets that are concrete and possible to evaluate. Another way to strengthen the Swedish efforts to implement Resolution 1325 could be to appoint a Swedish ambassador responsible for the issue. This has been done by the current and former government on several other issues. We must also see that there are 52 other countries that have adopted action plans for 1325. The EU and several other international organisations have also adopted their own action plans. Here are a lot of good examples to learn from. At the same time, we can see that the vast majority of the countries of the world today have no action plans for 1325. If we look at the UN system today, we can see that many of the major force-supporting countries are completely lacking in their own action plans. Today, neither Bangladesh, Pakistan nor India – the three countries that contribute most soldiers to the UN's efforts – have any National Action Plans for 1325. In Mali, where Sweden is currently contributing our largest international military effort, the four largest forces-assisting countries with a total of 30 000 soldiers are missing their own national action plans. This will not only be a problem for Bangladesh and Pakistan and for their efforts; it will be a problem for the United Nations mission in Mali and therefore also a problem for Sweden. I therefore believe that it is important for Sweden's work in the future that we are on, but also helping other countries to develop and implement national action plans for the implementation of 1325. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to express my support for reservation 2.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-491	Mr President, I would like to A woman hangs outside a window on the Parisian November night. It's too high to jump, and it's too dangerous to call for help. If the terrorists see her, she's dead. Many miles away, a girl tells Zainab Bangura how she was sold 20 times to various terrorists. In the face of every sale, she is forced to undergo a so-called virgin operation in order to satisfy the perverted ideas of purity of the new owners. We have all taken note of the testimony of the UN Special Envoy for Sexual Violence in Conflict. Today we know that Daish, Boko Haram and al-Shabab are the biggest enemies of feminism and women. Since 2000, when we adopted Resolution 1325, the world has in many ways improved for women. As Mr Linde mentioned, 53 countries have now adopted national action plans to implement the resolution, and Sweden is one of them. It is well known that rapes are still used as a war tool all over the world. Sexual violence is one of the basic foundations of Daish's ideology, and the war you are fighting is also a war against women. Therefore, we believe that Sweden must try to do more to stop mass rape and work towards the abolition of the impunity that characterises these crimes. This calls for more attention to be paid to the particularly vulnerable situation of girls and women. It concerns bilateral relations, as well as the work of the EU and the UN. One important aspect of the particularly vulnerable situation of women is the international peace-promoting efforts that have also been mentioned here before. The international community must, more often than it is today, dare to intervene with military force in order to stop conflicts. Once we carry out an operation, it is crucial that the participants receive education in gender knowledge and can get these perspectives on women's situation in conflicts. It is unacceptable that there are still UN soldiers and policemen raping girls and women in vulnerable situations – the same UN soldiers that we, the international community, have given the task of protecting the civilian population and, in particular, women and children. We Liberals believe that just as much as we have to work for security in a world where women are often victims, so we have to see that women are and are supposed to be actors. This is not the case today in many parts of the world. Women own 1% of the world's accumulated wealth. The income differentials between men and women in our part of the world are not so great, but in many other parts of the world they are brutal. Female entrepreneurs in Ethiopia earn 34 cents on each crown that a male entrepreneur earns, and in Bangladesh that number is 12 cents. In 2015, only 15 women were heads of government. One in five parliamentarians was a woman, and among the world's Heads of State there were not even ten women. We Liberals would like to see Sweden step up efforts to strengthen the role of women in constitutional building and democratisation processes. In the peace processes where women are excluded, half the perspective is missing, half the peace. And the agreements are rarely particularly sustainable when you have failed to take care of half the population's perspective. Despite the fact that Resolution 1325 now has 15 years on its back, this problem continues to characterise the conflicts that we see in the world. There were many of us who were pleased in 2014 that the government was talking about a feminist foreign policy. But the government is still more loud than capable and more cautious than feminist. Of course, among liberal feminists who run an activist security policy, freedom and women's rights must be defended with arms. The outside world has a duty to intervene, including by force, to defend the human rights of women and girls as well. This was the case in Afghanistan, where the future of girls was restricted by Taliban, in Mali, where fundamentalists oppress women, and in Iraq, where we in the Liberals want more robust military support for the groups fighting Daish. In the most difficult conflicts, only weapons can protect the civilian population and, above all, the lives of women. Mr President, I would like to With the reality we are living today with widespread abuse and violence against women, feminism can never be the same as pacifism.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-504	Mr President, I would like to It has now been a little more than 15 years since the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security with the aim of increasing women's participation in peace work and strengthening the protection of women and girls in conflict situations. Resolution 1325 was in many ways groundbreaking. The adoption of the resolution officially recognised the link between equality, international peace and security and sustainable development. But what has really happened since then? Worldwide, action plans have been adopted on how to implement the resolution. Numerous large conferences have been organised in which the particular vulnerability of women and girls to conflicts has been emphasised. Fine declarations have been adopted on women's peace-promoting potential in conflict prevention and peace-building processes. And certainly progress has been made. But it has far from become a reality of all the fine words that we have heard. That is why we must continue to work tirelessly for something that should actually be self-evident. The fact that we are debating this issue today in a report based on Members' motions shows that there is a great deal of commitment in this House, but that is not enough. As long as women and children are renewed as sex slaves in conflict and as long as women are systematically excluded from peace negotiations, the struggle must continue at all levels. Mr President, I would like to Congo's long and seemingly insoluble conflicts have led to eastern K ongo being called t he capital of rape. Congo's conflicts and the systematic and brutal sexual violence that characterises the country have also given rise to media attention. The numbers are frightening. Over 1,000 reported rape victims per month are estimated — girls and women, but also boys and men. Brutality is striking. Both babies and older women are among the victims. Group rape is common and family members are forced to witness the act. One of the reasons for the proliferation of sexual violence in the Congo is impunity. Interviews with local rebel groups in eastern Congo highlight how easy it is to rape and how rarely it leads to some form of punishment. It is precisely impunity that also fundamentally upsets standards of what is right and wrong. But Congo is not unique. Not least in recent years we have been aware of the widespread sexual slavery and brutal rape campaigns by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. Daily reports from countries such as Libya, Sudan and Somalia show that sexual violence during conflicts is a rule rather than an exception. The attention to sexual violence was originally aroused in connection with the discovery of the rape camps that existed in Rwanda as well as here in Europe, in Bosnia, in the 1990s. The systematic and strategic sexual violence, which led to the rape of between 20 000 and 50 000 girls and women in Bosnia and between a quarter and a half million in Rwanda, suddenly led international organisations, the media, the academic world and us politicians to examine this terrible violence more closely. Since then, discussions on the causes of sexual violence have changed and measures have also been adapted to some extent. Instead of talking about rape in war as an inevitable consequence of men's inability to control their behaviour, seen as a result of the war's lack of standards and rules, it is now believed that sexual violence is also carried out for strategic or tactical purposes, sometimes even ordered from higher places to demoralize the enemy and destabilise ethnic groups. The Security Council has also adopted six further resolutions on women, peace and security since 1325, four of which have focused on sexual violence in armed conflicts. One of them, Resolution 1820 adopted in 2008, is perhaps the most important breakthrough for rape in war to be considered an international war crime. Increased efforts must, of course, be made to stop conflicts and thus avoid a new generation growing up in the culture of violence brought about by these conflicts. Here we put great hope in the UN, but after the treatment of Anders Compass, who courageously reported on sexual violence also by the UN's own soldiers, it is easy to feel discouragement. Mr President, I would like to The war in Syria is now entering the fifth year. It is a war that has reaped many deaths and displaced millions of people. People suffer terribly. Women and children are particularly vulnerable. We all hope that the peace talks on Syria will start soon and, above all, that they will lead to results. For lasting peace in Syria to be achieved, women must be involved in the peace process seriously. Sustainable peace cannot be established without women's experiences, needs, priorities and strategies for conflict resolution being taken into account in these negotiations. Sweden should express through international channels the importance of giving Syrian women influence over the formation of a Syrian future, when the war has finally been silenced and replaced by peace. Women should be involved in the peace negotiations, not just because it is fair but because it leads to results. Research shows that if women are included in the peace talks, peace will also be more lasting. In conclusion, I would like to say that Swedish civil society and our partisan organisations, with the help of Swedish aid, are making tremendous efforts to combat women's vulnerability in the world. But in order for women to become part of the conflict resolution, for peace to be lasting and for 1325 to become a reality, the Swedish government must push for the EU and the UN with the force of diplomacy to hear women's voices and to listen to them.
i-9Th23T74fPBzj8tLDzk28w	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the UU9 report on UN Security Council Resolution 1325. The report deals with motions concerning women and peace and security in Swedish foreign policy, in particular the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325. The role of women in peace and security is an integral part of peace and security building activities. 1325 has just celebrated 15 years, as many have already mentioned. The main aim of the resolution is to increase the participation of women in the work for peace and security and to strengthen the protection of women and girls in conflict situations. Sweden was among the first countries in the world to adopt a national action plan for the implementation of UN Resolution 1325, as has also been mentioned. I am very proud to be here today. We have a feminist government that works for women and men to be given the same power to shape society and their lives. Equality between women and men is a fundamental objective of Swedish foreign policy. Compliance with women's and girls' fundamental human rights is an obligation within the framework of international commitments and is a prerequisite for Sweden's broader foreign policy objectives on development, democracy, peace and security. Implementing Security Council Resolution 1325 is a joint responsibility, from civil society to international organisations. The Swedish commitment to implement 1325 has been strengthened and made more effective through our National Action Plan. The implementation must take a holistic approach so that it includes Sweden's national efforts, the work of cooperation countries in terms of regional cooperation – for example the EU – and internationally. It is therefore positive that, as we now revise the NAP, Sweden has discussed with, among others, five conflict and post-conflict countries – Afghanistan, Colombia, Congo, Liberia and Palestine. We welcome the government's feminist foreign policy. In autumn 2015, the government has concretized feminist foreign policy in an action plan for the foreign administration. By systematically translating a gender perspective into all aspects of foreign policy, Sweden can be a global voice and advocate for gender equality and women's and girls' rights. We attach great importance to efforts to support women's and girls' rights. Human rights are also women's rights. Rights, resources and representation are crucial for women's and girls' self-sufficiency and self-determination. The right to one's own body must be a matter of course. We give particular priority to women's and girls' sexual and reproductive rights and efforts to combat gender-based violence and human trafficking. Sweden will continue to work towards treating sexual violence in conflicts as a central security threat. Sweden is also pushing this issue in the UN. We cooperate with the ICC to combat impunity for sexual and gender-based violence in armed conflicts. We also welcome the Call to Action on Protection from Gender-based Violence in Emergencies initiative as well as the Swedish Government's efforts to mobilise states, humanitarian organisations and other actors to better manage gender-based violence in humanitarian conflicts. In connection with the UN's 70th birthday last autumn, Sweden, together with the US, launched an action plan for the work. And Sweden took over the management of the work on 1 January 2016. Women are key players in peace and security building activities. Nevertheless, women are all too rarely recognised as the key players they are. We welcome the government's efforts to strengthen women's empowerment and support women's opportunities for political power and influence. Female participation increases the chances of sustainable peace. Security Resolution 1325 has had positive effects, although much work still needs to be done. In the peace treaties signed between 1990 and 2000, only 11% of the cases, one in ten, were referred to women at all. Since 2000, when the resolution was adopted, the figure has risen to 27%, every four cases. Of the six peace treaties negotiated in 2014, two thirds contained references to women, peace and security. However, as many have already pointed out, there are still few female mediators. It is therefore important that the government works for more women with mediation skills and networks between women mediators. Sweden has actively contributed to the EU's new gender equality plan. It makes equality an integral part of the EU's external action, not just in development cooperation. Sweden must and will continue its efforts to make Resolution 1325 a natural part of the planning, design, implementation and evaluation of EU civilian and military crisis management operations as well as in other conflict prevention and peace-promoting operations. Women and girls are among the most important target groups for Sweden's international aid. The explanation for this is as simple as disheartening: "Kvinnor" generally has less power than men and is more often subject to discrimination. It is therefore important that we strengthen gender equality and improve the conditions for women to be active actors in democratisation processes and to exert influence over public decision-making. Madam President, I would like For 15 years we have had the support of Resolution 1325 to work for women, peace and security. We have traditionally had a broad consensus in this House on the importance of active work for women, peace and security and for the effective implementation of 1325. It is therefore positive that we have a proposal to this House today. That is the committee's proposal. As Karin Enström said, there is broad support and great interest from the House in these issues. I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-533	Madam President, I would like It is wonderful that we are so united in this House that there will be no debates. We give our speeches and agree that this is important. It's nice. About half of the earth's inhabitants are men. The other half, about 3.8 billion, is women – 3.8 billion. Is it not completely absurd that this half, made up of the female sex, is, in many cases, conjured away and made invisible? How is that possible? It has spread images online from high-level contexts, from negotiations for peace and from parliaments where they have played with the images. The men have been erased. Can you imagine how empty it will be? Maybe there'll be 1 woman and 20 empty chairs. Maybe there'll be two women and 100 empty chairs. Sometimes it gets completely empty. I often play with that thought now, because it becomes so clear then. In the two political panels at Folk och Försvar national conference in Sälen this year, for example, it was completely empty on stage – only eight microphones and a moderator. Yes, you men are good. So are we. And it is understandable that the patriarchy around the world is concerned that competition is increasing when we women demand our place. But there's really nothing to be afraid of. It gets so much better when we work together on equal terms. Perhaps the men must wear a little bit, but that is only right. Right? Every human being is worth as much... man as woman, woman as man. And if half of the population is excluded from working on equal terms, at least I cannot call it democracy. That is why I am infinitely proud of our feminist foreign policy, and I am proud of our Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström. She was greatly desired — a strong, courageous, knowledgeable, and clear person. Last year she was named one of the world's top ten global thinkers by Foreign Policy magazine. It's hard to get on that list, and I don't really think any other Swede has got so high on it. But I am also extremely saddened by the enormous drive Margot Wallström is being subjected to here in Sweden. I am absolutely convinced that it is largely governed by the fearful patriarchy, by the scared men – not all men are afraid – and by those who find it uncomfortable that someone is so clearly standing up for human rights, and not just for the one who happens to be a man. Madam President, I would like In Sweden's feminist foreign policy, the implementation of Resolution 1325 and the subsequent in-depth resolutions are a cornerstone. Women are under-represented in politics in most countries. It can be difficult for women to get involved politically and to be elected to decision-making assemblies. The lack of equality and exclusion of women is particularly evident in countries characterised by war and conflict. It is therefore important that the world around us makes clear demands on all countries to involve both women and men on equal terms. Women must be well represented in all peace processes in order to achieve lasting peace, and women must participate on equal terms in shaping society after conflict. When you sit there and negotiate for peace, you often decide how society should be governed and what it should look like after you have come out of the conflict. If women are missing, then at the negotiating table peace is not sustainable, and when women are excluded from influence, at least I believe that democratic legitimacy is lost. Madam President, I would like Sexual violence is a weapon and a strategy used by armed groups and terrorists around the world. In war, women are subjected to subtle torture, with the aggravation of the genital area, in order to bring greater pain and injury, which sometimes means that women cannot bear children. Rape has also been used as a method of ethnic cleansing. Sure, men are also raped in conflicts, but it is after all women who are the most vulnerable. And it is not uncommon for women and girls to be pushed away from their families because of the collective shame of sexual abuse. Men's violence against women is the most widespread threat to women's safety. Nevertheless, far too little is being done by governments and the international community to stop the violence. Threats of sexual violence also cause many women to refrain from engaging in their rights. Activists in conflict areas mention the threat of sexual violence as one of their biggest problems. Many women are not aware of their rights either. Last fall I met Denis Mukwege, a doctor at Panzi Hospital in Congo-Kinshasa. The images he had to render of women and children — even, he said, rather newborn babies — are so incomprehensible and grotesque that they can hardly be reproduced. Dr. Mukwege is doing an amazing job and is, I would say, one of the world's great heroes. But this should not really be necessary, because rape should not be allowed to occur. No one has the right to a body other than their own. Not in Sweden. Not in the world. There is still much to be done here, and we must work urgently. No one should go without punishment. Everyone has the right to their own body, the right not to be threatened and the right to participate on equal terms in society and decision-making. That is why Resolution 1325 and subsequent resolutions are so important, and that is why the government's feminist foreign policy is so important. With this, I support the proposal in the committee's report and thank you for the floor.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-549	Madam President, I would like It is very gratifying that there is such a great deal of consensus in the Swedish Parliament on Resolution 1325 and its implementation and implementation. It is the latter that is the important thing, and that is why coherence is important. It is important that we can work together on this. The Swedish feminist government gives the highest priority to supporting women as actors for peace. In line with this, we are pushing for the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, as well as its subsequent resolutions. The growing number of crises, conflicts and wars in the world testifies to the need for inclusive peace processes and sustainable peace building. But the reality is that women are still largely excluded. This must change. This is why the government wants to strengthen women's participation in peace processes and peace building. This applies, among other things, to the peace process in Colombia and our extensive commitment to a future peaceful Syria. The new global goals for sustainable development, Agenda 2030, have clear goals on gender equality and on inclusive peace and state building. They are an important starting point for our joint international commitment to promoting the agenda on women, peace and security. Within the UN, work is under way to review the UN's peace building and promotion activities where Sweden actively participates and highlights the importance of gender equality perspectives and the use of gender equality expertise in the peace process and decision-making. The work for sustainable peace obviously needs to take into account entire populations and communities in order to be effective. In March, a decision is planned on Sweden's new action plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325. Underlying the plan is a comprehensive consultation process that for the first time has involved actors in five conflict and post-conflict countries. Until we have adopted the new plan, the old one will apply. The Action Plan will increase ambition through clear objectives and through a clear division of roles and responsibilities in implementation and reporting. One of our focus areas in the new plan will be women's participation in peace processes and peace building. The Government has taken the initiative to develop a Swedish network for women as mediators. Within two years, we expect these women to assist in peace processes where their skills are sought. The network will also connect with other international female networks of mediators located elsewhere in the world and contribute to the development of a Nordic mediator network. With this effort, we want to increase the number of women in international peace processes and strengthen Sweden's ability to contribute effectively to sustainable peace building. Our work to combat gender and sexual violence against women and girls in conflict is intensifier as Sweden has taken over the chairmanship of Call to Action on Protection from Gender-Based Violence in Emergencies from 1 January this year. We also work with different actors to counter the widespread impunity of these crimes. Our national work is complemented and strengthened by our other work at international level. The government welcomes the fact that the EU, on Swedish initiatives among others, has now established a High Level Representative for Gender Equality. Sweden will drive the development of the EU's internal and external gender equality work in close cooperation with the gender equality advisor and other key actors and partners. Many challenges remain, but there are still more opportunities. Sweden will continue to be a leading player in promoting the agenda on women, peace and security, thereby contributing to more sustainable peace, security and development worldwide.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-560	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for being present and participating in this important debate. It is characterised by a common understanding, which I am very happy about. It shows the strength of the fact that it is not just a party or a government but several parties. There is broad support for pursuing these issues from a national point of view and, of course, from an international point of view. In its speech, the Government referred to the chairmanship of Call to Action that Sweden has taken over from 1 January. It is, of course, an important platform for taking these issues forward. It was launched in connection with the 70th anniversary of the UN in October. The government said we should run an active presidency. We assume that, and so I would like to ask the Government: in what way? What are the priorities on the basis of the plan? Are there any planned activities? Could there even be something that Parliament's parties can help with? My simple question, Madam President, is how things are going and what the government intends to do about the Presidency of Call to Action in the coming year.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-564	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Karin Enström! As I said, we have prepared this through the consultation process for the new action plan. We have set up a reference group to take part in the development of the plan, which will support our work as chairman. The reference group consists of many different representatives of authorities and representatives of civil society. We will, of course, explain to the Riksdag what is happening. We see the support we have in Parliament as an important prerequisite for us to have strong legitimacy and be able to keep a high profile when we run the issues as Chairman of Call to Action. In the future, we will report to the Riksdag how the work is going, both through the budget proposals and through our letters to the Riksdag on the EU.
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-566	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer, Minister. We look forward to the reports and will follow them up from the Riksdag. The work on Call to Action is, of course, linked to the National Action Plan which, according to the Government, will be adopted in March and which we are also looking forward to. The Government mentioned, if I understood correctly, that the highest priority is issues of sexual violence in armed conflicts and the major problem of impunity. As a representative of Sweden and the Nordic countries, I had the opportunity to speak before the Security Council on the problem of impunity. It was not Resolution 1870 but a Security Council resolution that came later and that was initiated by the UK. That was a few years ago, and so I would like to take this opportunity to ask whether the Government sees that, in addition to the work to be done, there is a sensitivity in the system to raise these issues. As I said, it is one thing to condemn what is happening, another to work against it. If you, as a victim, but also as a perpetrator, feel that nothing happens, that the abuse can be done with impunity, it becomes a double punishment for the women who have been subjected. They have been subjected to a violation and a terrible crime, and when the perpetrator goes free, it feels like a double punishment. Can the Government say anything about the possibility of dealing seriously with the problem?
i-08c3c1ebfdf339a2-571	Madam President, I would like We believe that the attention that the abuses in Congo received and the scandal that resulted from the Swedish representative Anders Compass reporting have led to a higher awareness in the UN system and to a readiness to act. We have the impression that the Secretary-General gives these issues a strong priority and that there are good conditions for us to push ahead and succeed. Everyone's view in the system is that violence and abuse are unacceptable. It is important not only to ensure that women are present and able to protect women's interests, but also to involve men and boys and to increase their understanding and knowledge in order to prevent gender-related sexual violence. We are working with the International Criminal Court (ICC) to raise the issue in the ICC State Party Assembly and promote cooperation for stronger support to victims of gender and conflict-related sexual violence. The Foreign Minister has also contacted the Secretary-General of the United Nations to give priority to combating sexual violence in conflicts, because it must be constantly on the agenda of the Security Council. The Foreign Minister is also a so-called champion of the initiative Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict. I think I can promise that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will do everything possible to ensure that the problem of gender and conflict-related sexual violence is recognised, prevented and combated, and that the perpetrators are punished when abuse occurs.
