i-EdvmMGESfhVFhUHJfU5F8J	Madam President, I would like At the European Council at the end of last week, the issue of the UK's relationship with the EU was the focus. Issues related to migration, Syria and Libya and the European semester were also on the agenda. On the British question, after long and difficult negotiations, the Member States were finally able to reach a good agreement. My hope is that the agreement will help to ensure that Britain remains in the European Union. What we have agreed shows that the Member States have made every effort to stay together at a time when we are facing some of our greatest challenges ever. The negotiations focused in particular on the issues of welfare and free movement, economic governance and sovereignty. Let me begin with the most difficult question, the one about social welfare and free movement, and in particular on the proposal to set up a so-called social emergency brake for the payment of certain social benefits, so-called in-work benefits. The question was how many years a Member State should be able to limit the payment of such benefits to citizens from other EU countries. Many Member States, including Sweden, wanted to limit this derogation as much as possible. The agreement eventually became a limit of seven years without the possibility of an extension. Another contentious issue concerned the payment of child benefit to children living in another EU country and how it should be adjusted or indexed to the actual cost level in the country where the child lives. The United Kingdom wants such indexation to apply to all payments to other countries. Many Member States objected to this and argued that indexation could at least not be applied retroactively, i.e. to people already living and working in another Member State. The compromise means that indexation by 2020 can only be applied to new arrivals, and then all so-called export of child benefit should be indexed. The section on economic governance lays down basic principles of transparency and equal treatment between the countries whose currency is the euro and those which do not. As far as the economic emergency brake is concerned, we finally agreed that one Member State should be sufficient to activate it. I argued for this and am therefore satisfied with that outcome. As regards the wording on the obligation of non-euro area countries to make progress in meeting so-called convergence criteria, I stated that Sweden does not interpret this as an obligation to start working towards joining the euro area but that the outcome of the Swedish referendum on the euro must be respected. None of my colleagues objected to this. In the sovereignty section, the United Kingdom was given the opportunity to make it clear in future Treaty changes that the wording of ever closer cooperation, or ever closer union, does not cover them. I am particularly pleased with the improvements made to the text in the section on competitiveness where it is now clear that regulatory simplification should not be at the expense of consumers, workers, health and our common environment. This is something that Sweden has actively pursued during the negotiations and which has produced results in this agreement. Having said that, Madam President, I am pleased that we finally managed to reach a good agreement which I hope will help to ensure that Britain remains in the European Union. Let me now turn to the second major issue of the summit – migration. The discussion took place on the basis of a progress report on the implementation of the decisions taken. I made it clear that the implementation of the measures decided by the EU in the area of migration must be improved and that the responsibilities of the Member States must be increased. It is possible, as we have seen so many times before, far too slow. But I will work tirelessly on this because we have no choice but to work for a common European solution. However, I said that I would like to see a concrete action plan that clearly shows the next step, as well as who is going to do what and the timeframes for this. I heard about this from the other leaders. In a situation where freedom of movement is at stake and Schengen cooperation is under threat, we must strengthen the control of the EU's external border. In the short term, this applies in particular to Greece. However, we must also work purposefully to establish a new border regime in accordance with the Commission's border package and where the Member States obviously have a clear role to play in the decision-making process. The redeployment of asylum seekers must start and resources must be allocated to so-called hotspots and they must function effectively. It is also essential that return takes place and refugees who are not in need of international protection are returned. Cooperation between the EU and Turkey was also discussed, not least in the light of the terrible terrorist attack that took place in Ankara the day before the summit and which claimed the lives of 28 people. In connection with that attack, a statement was made in which the Heads of State or Government condemned the attack and expressed sympathy and solidarity with the relatives of the victims and the entire Turkish people. Turkey has a key role to play in combating trafficking in human beings, but at the same time it is clear that the flow of migrants from Turkey to Greece continues to be very large. We must therefore increase the demand for Turkey to implement its part of the action plan agreed, and we agreed to hold a summit with Turkey in March before the next regular European Council. I would also like to emphasise in particular that this time in the conclusions on migration, we have stated that asylum seekers are not entitled to choose which EU country to apply for asylum in. It is a very important principle that is crucial for us to achieve a fair distribution of asylum seekers in the European Union. It is also in line with what the government is pushing as an important starting point for a new asylum system. The next agenda item was foreign relations, and in this area the European Council adopted short and good conclusions on Syria and Libya respectively. As regards Syria, the warring parties are now being called upon to lay down their weapons, and the responsibilities and actions of the Al-Assad regime and its allies are being highlighted. The text on Libya stresses the importance of the EU acting in coordination with the UN to promote the economic development of the country and combat terrorism, but also mentions the importance of regional security for the stabilisation of the country. Finally, the European Council endorsed a single recommendation to the euro area within the European Semester for 2016. This, Madam President, was the report back from the meeting.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-19	Madam President, I would like I would first like to thank the Prime Minister for the successful work carried out by the European Council on 18-19 February 2016. There can never be enough emphasis on the importance that Britain has for our country. It is not only a good partner on many issues, such as budgetary, free trade, competitiveness and economic governance, but, above all, it is an important defender of the sometimes louder demands of federalism, which from time to time are increasingly aggressive from some countries in the discussions. It is also gratifying to hear that Sweden heard about several of the issues that have been a Swedish line, such as the fact that only one Member State is required to activate the economic emergency brake and that regulatory changes taking place within the competitiveness section should not be made at the expense of consumers and workers, health and our common environment. One issue raised by our consultation at the European Council this week was the issue of the euro. It was a hard text in the draft conclusions. What about the euro question? Did Sweden have an exception for the euro in the sense that Sweden does not have to join the euro until we have decided on it ourselves?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-23	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that it is important for Britain to remain in the Union for a number of reasons. It was also a success that it was stated in the decision paper that any simplification of rules to strengthen competitiveness should not be at the expense of workers, the environment or consumers. On the euro issue, the text of the conclusions is in accordance with the text of the Treaty. That's why the concentration was about clarifying how we interpret it. None of my colleagues objected to what I preferred in my introduction, namely that respect for the outcome of the Swedish referendum must apply. I would like to stress once again, as I mentioned at the meeting of the European Council, that there is no practical possibility for anyone to impose on Sweden a currency we do not want.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-25	Madam President, I would like The second issue concerned migration. It was also discussed livelyly during our consultation in the EU Board. There the Prime Minister was asked to punch his fist in the table. It's tempting to ask if the Prime Minister did it and if so how hard, but I'll be a little more serious. The issue of migration was up for discussion for the 21st time, if our colleague Ulrika Karlsson has counted correctly – and I assume she has. So it is an issue that is well discussed. One success path that could be achieved was to apply for asylum in the first country of arrival, which is entirely in accordance with the Dublin rules. Did the Prime Minister raise the issue of the great migratory pressure against Sweden? Were there any results?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-28	Madam President, I would like The migration issue took its round time. It was about 4 a.m. on Friday morning before we were done, possibly something earlier. The issue is difficult and complex. You can punch your fist in the table once in a while. It depends on the occasion, and I'm going to choose that opportunity. That's not always the story of success. We had a success in ensuring that an asylum seeker is not free to choose which country to seek asylum in. It is an important pillar in order to arrive at a system in which we distribute asylum seekers much better. Everyone knows about the migratory pressure on Sweden from before. The issue is under consideration in the Commission's proposal for how Sweden should be dealt with in this perspective.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-31	Madam President, I would like I would like to start at that end by saying that it was a success that an agreement was reached on Britain's request for this meeting. It would have been a great failure if it had not been agreed. Now David Cameron can enter the referendum campaign with strong arguments. It is important that the United Kingdom remains a member of the Union. It would be incredibly bad for Europe, Sweden, Swedish companies and Swedish citizens if the UK were to leave the Union. Sweden would lose the main partner we have to push for the Union, for the reform agenda, for the opening of competition, for regulatory simplification, for an integrated internal market and so on. We Moderates want to see a Europe in which Britain continues to be our main partner in the Union. The second issue on the table was migration. Indeed, the issue of migration has been discussed at more than 20 ministerial meetings. The migration crisis is not over. I have urged the Prime Minister to take the crisis very seriously. I also called on the Prime Minister to punch his fist in the table because the implementation is not working. At these 20 meetings, it has been decided that 160 000 asylum seekers currently in Greece and Italy will be relocated within the Union for a period of two years. So far, only 497 have been redistributed. When this two-year deadline is over, only 2,000 will have been redistributed. The Prime Minister said it's going too slow. I'm saying it's not even going slow, it's not possible at all. What, in concrete terms, did the Prime Minister push for the redeployment within the Union to take off and for it to start working?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-36	Madam President, I would like It is quite right that Britain should have its referendum. It is only to be hoped that it will go the way in the sense that Britain will remain in the Union. On the issue of migration, there is no need for a call. I thank you for it anyway. I have been pushing this issue very purposefully since I took office. I am looking for cooperation with countries which think as we do and which are in the same situation as us. I have had many talks and fruitful discussions with Angela Merkel in Germany and Werner Faymann in Austria and so on, and we have built up cooperation. Once again, I am told to punch my fist in the table. You can do that at some point, but it is not the case that the other countries suddenly think that redistribution is good just because you punch your fist in the table. I think it wants something else, namely to continue the hard work. I said that the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council must present an action plan. How will it work in this situation? What's the next step? Who's in charge? Who is responsible for what will happen? What timescales do we see before us for hotspots, borders, return and redistribution to work? How do we show that we are moving forward in each part? It is the concreteisation that is reasonable to demand. It should, of course, have come earlier. We've been told it's coming. Now I want to see it before the next meeting at the beginning of March.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-40	Madam President, I would like In the media, it has been stated that the Prime Minister has considered that one of the greatest successes of the summit was that it was decided that asylum seekers should not be allowed to choose their own country. It's a 26-year-old decision. 26 years ago, the Member States of the Union agreed to implement the Decision. How can the Prime Minister see it as a success to repeat a 26-year-old decision at the summit? I would like to move on to the NATO issue. It has now been decided at the summit that NATO has a task to combat the smuggling of refugees. This has been said by Foreign Minister Wallström, which is wrong. It is unclear where the Prime Minister is on this issue. What drove the Prime Minister on the NATO issue? Does the Prime Minister think it is important for NATO to assist the Union in combating the smuggling of refugees?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-42	Madam President, I would like On the question of not being allowed to choose a country, the statement clarifies that it is one of the pillars of the direction of future asylum systems, regardless of previous decisions. It's a step forward. As far as NATO is concerned, it is a request from several countries for NATO to be able to participate in monitoring, in monitoring and in surveillance. There is also a clear limit to what NATO's mission does not mean. This does not mean stopping boats or otherwise acting actively. Of course, people who have fallen into the water are obliged to be picked up. That is the obligation. I have had a conversation with the Secretary-General of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, and I think that if we can get help, in this case help with monitoring these border regions, that is a good thing. That is an advantage for us – with the clear demarcation that NATO and its Secretary-General themselves do.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-45	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for the reporting back from the European Council. The Swedish Democrats are a party which, with its opposition to the EU, must nail the documents and opinions coming from Brussels. This often leads to the fact that the Swedish Democrats as the only party are openly critical of the proposals that are trumpeted out of Brussels. Unlike the EU establishment in Brussels and its supporters here in Sweden, the Swedish Democrats believe that democracy should be built from below. Implementing changes in which policies are increasingly shifting away from the citizens of the Member States to the Union is at odds with this. Democracy means popular rule, and it should be up to each people what its country and future should look like. When Brussels speaks of democracy, it means, as a rule, the exact opposite. For these reasons, Madam President, we Swedish democrats welcome the British referendum and are very pleased that the British are allowed to answer the question of whether they want to continue to be governed by Brussels or whether they are going to take power back to Westminster. We are also looking forward to the forthcoming referendum in the Netherlands on the Association Agreement with Ukraine. In Britain this is not a party political issue, but rather an issue that affects the whole of society. Anyone who has ever got into the way Europe works also sees that it simply does not. It doesn't work in many respects. Self-interest and incompetence permeate this monster-building to the point that it becomes ridiculous. A number of prominent British politicians, regardless of party, have now looked beyond their own profit. They therefore clearly reject Mr Cameron's watered-down compromise proposal. Whatever the outcome of the referendum in the UK, it is now time for Sweden to renegotiate the agreement with the other members of the Union. In view of this, Madam President, my question to the Prime Minister is as follows: how does the Prime Minister see that the Swedish people too should be allowed to speak out in a referendum on EU membership like that which the British will now have?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-51	Madam President, I would like As the memorial perhaps remembers, Sweden has had a referendum on the matter, and it had an outcome. I would say that what the Swedish Democrats are doing is pure populism. They are talking about the EU establishment and incompetence and whatever it may be. Yes, the EU also has its faults and shortcomings, like all other organisations. But to isolate Sweden as the Swedish Democrats want to do would be very unfortunate for our country. To believe that Sweden in a global economy or in this European context is floating around like its own small boat, its own small island, and has absolutely no dependence on other countries is just floscler. It has nothing to do with reality. We are in a context where it is important that we in our country do the right thing and control the right thing, make sure that people come to work, that children get school and education and that welfare works – all that people in Sweden want. But we must also look at ourselves in a context with other people, along with other countries. We export a large part of our exports to the EU area – a large part. To think that it would work just as before if Sweden were not a member is actually a lie. The Swedish Democrats can continue to spread their populist talk. We should stick to reality, where it is a matter of ensuring that Europe does the best thing for Europe: creating added value. No one should believe that our countries individually can stand up to China, India, Indonesia, the Philippines or other major players. This requires cooperation in the European Union, and I will continue to stand up for that.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-56	Madam President, I would like Well, it's certainly interesting, this thing with China and India. But the question is this: are countries such as Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland isolated? The answer, of course, is no. What the Swedish people said yes to in a referendum in 1994 was quite different from what we are seeing today, Prime Minister. It is something completely different, the monster building that has emerged and that costs the Swedish taxpayers tens of billions every year. This is something that a lot of people who voted 'yes' in 1994 say 'no' to 2016. It is time for the government and the Swedish Parliament to turn to the Swedish people in a referendum, just as Britain is now doing, and ask the Swedish people what it thinks about the development that we have seen: that more and more power is transferred from this Parliament, the Swedish Parliament, to a small number – or, I'm sorry, a fairly large number – bureaucrats in Brussels who are not elected.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-60	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to remind Pavel Gamov that we have just strengthened the principle of subsidiarity. We have therefore strengthened the role of national parliaments in this process. No, of course you don't get completely isolated. But you have to put up with a lot of things that others decide, such as trade rules and how they should work. So we are exporting a great deal to the European Union, and that will be the case for the foreseeable future. I ask Pavel Gamov to count on how much it means in Swedish income, in income here to us. Then it is important that we have good cooperation with our surrounding world. That we live in isolation in our own bubble where we hardly need to deal with the outside world and can care for ourselves, that's a chimare. It is and remains a chimare. We're gonna do the right thing here at home. It is important what policy is being conducted here at home. But it is also important that we are in a context and understand our role in a global economy.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-64	Madam President, I would like In fact, I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister. I think the result was better than expected. I do not agree at all with the Swedish democrats in their description. For the first time, the EU clarifies that ever closer union does not mean that the EU needs to acquire new powers or make more laws within its current powers. It is even said that it does not mean a ban on bringing back skills that the EU no longer needs to the Member States. In that sense, as the Prime Minister says, the independence of the countries has increased. Subsidiarity has increased, not decreased, with this decision. I think it was very good that we got through a clarification that simpler and better regulation means fully respecting the protection of consumer law, public health and the environment. That's very good. I am also surprised that it was so good to come to an agreement on the opt-out rules that Britain should have. However, I believe that there is a risk that the 'no' owners in the UK think that this is not enough. The debate may turn, and the 'no' side may grow. There will be a nervousness, and then there will be a demand for Britain to come back to Europe with new demands. How was this discussed at the summit? If the 'no' side leads, will new demands be accepted? What's the plan there? It also states that there should be a rapid halt to currents, a reduction in illegal immigration and the protection of external borders. But this can mean a lot of different things. Does this mean accepting more legal immigration? Does this stop the currents from taking action so that there is less war and more fair trade? Did they discuss it? And the protection of external borders does not mean closed external borders, but only control over them and know what happens at them. How did the currents go here? Where is it going in preparation for the March meeting on the issue of migration?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-69	Madam President, I would like Yes, there is uncertainty as to how the referendum in Britain ends. Although at the moment there seems to be a decent majority for a yes, there is also a large percentage of uncertainty, so it is highly uncertain. The 'no' side is very strong; we know that. No, we did not discuss whether we should have a new negotiation if Britain leans towards a no. That is simply not the way to negotiate. Here we have to negotiate an agreement, and we have to stand by it. It would not be good if Britain left the EU, no. However, we cannot have a system in which any country negotiates an agreement that does not go well and then comes back and will negotiate again. Then we have a process that never stops. The United Kingdom has obtained its agreement. They're going to a referendum. They decide for themselves whether to stay or not. As far as I'm concerned, it's not possible to do that again. It's done now. I hope you don't mind. As far as external border protection is concerned, it is just as Carl Schlyter says: we must have better control, otherwise our asylum system will not work at all. One thing that is being discussed is also legal ways. What we would like to achieve is a system in which people do not have to flee and do not have to make these risky journeys at all. If things work better in the immediate region, we can put people in order to come to Europe. Not least, I would like to see good cooperation with the UNHCR on this issue. Then we'll have order and order and secure movement of people. This is also discussed in cooperation with Turkey. We would like to switch over there, and on this issue we agree with, for example, Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-73	Madam President, I would like The migratory flows we are now seeing are, I believe, not a temporary event. We have a new world. Half the world has smart phones. You know your rights. Many people are somewhat richer and can afford to transport further distances. The same migration debates are now taking place in Australia, New Zealand, the United States and the whole of Europe. I wonder if there is any readiness to take a global initiative to actually, at a global level, increase the opportunities for people to build a good and glorious framework in their own country. Then one needs to look at how current trade policy benefits or disadvantages some countries and look at war policy, arms exports and the like. Is there any readiness to deal with the structural problem, that people are not well enough where they are born?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-75	Madam President, I would like Some of the migration flows are natural, yes, but what is now happening because of the Syria conflict is not. That's what we want to stop. People should not need to suffer this. As Ban Ki M oon put it: This is as close to hell on earth as you can get. It shouldn't have to be like that. For this reason, however, what Mr Schlyter refers to is important, that is to say, what more global initiatives can be taken. That is where foreign policy is important. Trade policy is important. It is about security and conflict prevention, and not least environmental issues are important. Quite a few people are forced to flee because of drought and other things. This is all connected. That is why it is so important that Sweden is included in the debate both in the EU and globally, not least in a UN context. If I am properly informed, the American administration will also take an initiative in this area this autumn in order for us to hold an active global debate.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-78	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for his report. I would like to comment mainly on three areas, namely the United Kingdom, migration and Turkey. Let me start with Britain and say that I would like to congratulate the European Council, including the Prime Minister, on the agreement that has been reached. Negotiations are about giving and taking. They are also about having respect for the opinions and opinions of others. Last but not least, it is also a question of the will to get there, and I think that the European Council has demonstrated this in this context. I'm happy about that. Then you can have additional requests. As far as I am concerned and as far as the Centre Party is concerned, we would have liked the seven years in the social protocol to have been reduced, and I know that the Prime Minister agrees with that. As has been said, it is a matter for discussion. Let me turn to the migration section. In the press release that has been sent to us, I can read that, in response to the migration crisis facing the EU, the aim must be to rapidly stem the currents, protect our external borders, reduce illegal immigration and protect the integrity of the Schengen area. I do not find anything in the press release or in the many documents that I have obtained with the full conclusions that the issue of more legal ways in or the protection of the right to asylum has been at all touched upon, any more than I find anything about the EU's own protection directive. I wonder how the discussion went on this area. Was there really any discussion on this issue, on which I feel that we in Sweden agree?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-82	Madam President, I would like As far as the UK is concerned, I agree that I would have liked the seven-year period to be shorter, but, as Mr Erlandsson says, it is a matter of negotiation and giving and taking. Now we have reached an agreement that we all stand up for. But I fully share that view. The issue of migration, of rapidly halting currents and protecting borders, and so on, is also about wanting people not to have to expose themselves to these perilous journeys at all. That is why we are having important discussions on humanitarian aid inside Syria, which is still feasible, and on aid to Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. This is so that people can have a decent time there and not risk their lives on the way across the seas or through dangerous journeys. That is an important starting point. The discussion we have with Turkey includes precisely this ingredient. We have previously stated this in the joint agreement. This is a two-way street. Turkey is committed to creating more opportunities for work, housing and schools, while we in Europe could receive people in a more orderly way. As I said in my reply to Carl Schlyter, I would like to see further cooperation with the UNHCR on this issue, because there is a long experience and a great deal of knowledge about how this is to be done. We will then have a much more humane reception of asylum seekers. This may not be part of this, but it is part of that strategy. That is part of the exchange we make with Turkey.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-85	Madam President, I would like My wish for the forthcoming summit is, in relation to the discussion that the Prime Minister and I now have, that the Prime Minister should raise at the forthcoming meeting the question of the EU's own protection directive. I think that this directive has been neglected in all the discussions that we now have on migratory flows and the like. We have our own directive within our Union, and I think it is appropriate for us to look after that directive as well. Let me come back to Turkey a little quickly. How do the Prime Minister and the European Council intend to follow up on the agreement reached with Turkey? All agreements must, of course, be maintained and followed up, so that you can see that you achieve the results you want.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-87	Madam President, I would like We will have to come back to the basic directive for the next meeting. As far as Turkey is concerned, we have decided on an extraordinary meeting of the European Council at the beginning of March to follow this up with Turkey, and Turkey's Prime Minister, Davuto.lu, will also be involved. There we will review what has happened and what has been done. The agreement with Turkey is in place so that the European Union has made provision for this. As improvements are implemented, such as housing, schools and so on, funds are also being provided. It is not a system in which only funds are provided to the Turkish treasury and then we will see what happens, but it is all based on the fact that things are actually happening. Let's follow this up. Before this forthcoming meeting, I want a clear account of what has been done, what has not been done and what needs to be done.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-91	Madam President, I would like There are perfectly legitimate reasons for a referendum on the European Union. The EU is increasingly developing into a state where more and more decisions are being moved down to Brussels. I don't think people want to see that development. However, as regards the social emergency brake that Britain has now received, I am very concerned that our Prime Minister and the whole European summit have now met Prime Minister Cameron's concession to the xenophobic forces in Britain. It is the forces that are trying to claim that it is hard-working Poles, Portuguese or Swedes, for that matter, that are the reason why the economy is not as good as it should be in Britain. I am afraid it may have a negative domino effect, where country after country in Europe starts to tighten their borders and starts to look around. Who are these people that we can throw out? Who are the people for whom we can withdraw the subsidies? It is not a development that we should accept. It is not an emergency brake that Britain has been given, but a branding of foreign citizens. Our prime minister should not have agreed to that. Instead, I would have liked our Prime Minister to have stood up for a social protocol in Europe, in which workers, regardless of nationality, could work side by side for the same salary and with the same rights. I would like to ask Prime Minister Stefan Löfven: when will you raise the issue of a social protocol? On the issue of migration, the Prime Minister said that a new border regime within the EU has been discussed. Then I want to know something within the framework, Stefan Löfven, of the new border regime. Does this mean giving the EU border authority Frontex new powers? Is it something that the Swedish Government supports?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-96	Madam President, I would like The last question is handled in a special way. The responsible Minister raises this issue. Then we get an account and a review of which rules are to be applied. However, we believe in the Swedish Government that we need to keep track of the EU's external borders. Otherwise, the internal part does not work, and then freedom of movement does not work. It is of great value that we stand up for freedom of movement. Then it gets a little weird. If you think that there is too much decision in Brussels and that you should be allowed to decide this for yourself, the conclusion for Jens Holm should be that they in the UK should be allowed to decide entirely for themselves how to make payments of grants. There is a restriction in EU rules for the UK, and now there is a temporary derogation. I take it that Jens Holm thinks it is positive that there is a limitation and that possibility. But this is exactly where it's gonna double. We've got order in this. It's not perfect. But our policy in Sweden must be built under and given the opportunity for that space of what is happening in Europe. I am happy to mention the rights of employees and the social protocol. I would like to see this in a discussion on future Treaty changes. I'll stand up for that. But right now, that's not the time. However, we can work in many other ways to secure employees' rights also in Sweden. I am talking about the Posting of Workers Directive and Labour Mobility Package as such opportunities. That's what we're gonna do, and we're gonna make sure it's there. But then we will make it aware that this EU platform gives us in Sweden the opportunity to protect employees' rights. Without this platform, there would have been fewer opportunities to protect employees.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-100	Madam President, I would like I think that freedom of movement within the EU is a good thing. But the so-called social emergency brake restricts it. I do not understand what the Prime Minister really means when he claims that my reasoning is not connected. My reasoning is based on human rights, no matter where the people come from. Then I do not think that the Prime Minister is very clear about the border package. Does this mean that the EU border authority Frontex will have new and extended powers? Does the Swedish Government consider this to be a good answer? Here you get different answers depending on which minister you ask. I think that the Prime Minister must put his foot down and say: no more power should be transferred to Brussels, and we should not give Frontex any more power. It is good that the Prime Minister wants to lift the social protocol. I hope it will be soon.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-103	Madam President, I would like As far as the border package is concerned, we have said: it is ultimately a national matter. The national mandate is the basis. That's how we're supposed to run our boundaries. That is Sweden's mandate. It is our duty to manage our borders. Then we are part of an association with a common external border. Several countries are responsible for the external border. If internal mobility is to work, the external border must also work. If it turns out that it doesn't work, we need to take on something in common. The Commission is now developing proposals on how to do this. It is clear that the Member States must be involved in this. The changes that are being made and the measures that are being taken must, of course, be made with the inclusion of the Member States. But we cannot say that we should have an external border and therefore free movement and then say that we will not stand up for the external border. Then freedom of movement will not work.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-105	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for reporting back! Let me also join in the song of joy that Britain came victorious from the discussion that has been. However, it must somehow be recorded that the Prime Minister went down with the mandate that the social emergency brake should strike. But it would strike proportionately. That would be a limitation in time and scope. I find it very difficult to see that seven years would fall within that framework, that it is proportionate and limited in time and scope. But now we stand where we stand. I am pleased that Mr Cameron brought this along, and we are now looking forward to a referendum in the UK. We hope they stay, of course. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he views indexed child allowances, whether they should be introduced in Sweden or not. It becomes very unclear when the Prime Minister in an interview says that it is nothing for Sweden while the Swedish Minister for Finance says otherwise. It would have been interesting to know this. I am also very concerned about the very important issue – there I know that the Prime Minister and the Liberals are in agreement – about the importance of strong external border protection. We Liberals see this not as a way of locking people out, but as a guarantee that we will be able to maintain freedom of movement within the European Union and also ensure that we have a functioning asylum system that is comprehensive and common within the European Union. I believe that the Prime Minister and we Liberals are in agreement here. I am also very concerned when the Prime Minister says that he is in favour of NATO assisting the EU in this while we hear that the Foreign Minister is not. My simple question is, where does the government stand on these questions?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-111	Madam President, I would like First, it concerns the mandate. The mandate from here was, in my opinion, that Britain would remain. Then we had no fixed limit in terms of the years. I'd rather have seen a shorter time than seven years. That's right. In the election and the qualifying, we're going to have an agreement, or we're not going to have an agreement – probably considered the mandate. I believe that it was in accordance with the mandate given. As far as indexed child benefit is concerned, we have said about the same thing. I have said: we have no such proposals. The government doesn't. There are no such proposals now. I've said I can come back in that part. That is about what Magdalena Andersson has said. We don't have any suggestions. I think we should wait and see what happens. If there is a yes in the referendum, these rules will be implemented. Then we will have to look at how other countries are doing, so that we get an overall picture of how it works. In that case, we can simply come back to whether Sweden needs to do this or not. With regard to strong border protection, we share our view. I can sign that. It is absolutely necessary for it to work. I have just explained the NATO issue. There was at first a lack of clarity as to the meaning of the mandate. The Foreign Minister expressed concern about this. I have spoken to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. He has described to me how NATO views this mission. There is talk of monitoring, monitoring, but it is not an active part where NATO should go in and turn on boats and be active in that way, but they should have surveillance at sea and in the air. I think that, and hence the government, is a good support in this work.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-116	Madam President, I would like It's good to hear that what the Prime Minister says is what the government thinks. I also look forward to the concrete action plan that the Prime Minister is expressing that he wants to see for the March meeting, so that we get all the decisions that have now been taken in order and that they will be implemented on the issue of migration. Two items on the agenda went over rather quickly, and they have been constantly hoping over in previous Foreign Affairs Councils. One is the question of Libya. I would like to hear a little more out of curiosity about what was said about Libya, because the discussion on political developments in the country has stopped and it is incredibly important that we get the close cooperation between the EU and the UN and a possible future government of assembly in Libya. I also wonder what was said about Syria. Should we ever stop discussing the issue of migration as a problem, we must tackle the source of the problems. There we have both Libya and Syria as part of this.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-120	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that, and thank you for supporting the action plan – that is absolutely necessary! It was a small part of the conclusions on Libya. But it is on this theme: support for the UN process, the EU being active and working as much as possible on regional stability, because it is of great importance to Libya, and ensuring that it is involved in the process so that it can have a government that works. There we are not yet. It may have been slower than many had hoped before. As far as Syria is concerned, it is the same. It is about support for the UN process and for Staffan de Mistura and clear pressure for the Asad regime and Russia to stop bombing. After all, they do not move the question forward, but rather the other way round. It is important that the group in support of Syria continues to operate. There the European Union has an important role to play, in our view, and the European Union could perhaps do even more. But it is ultimately the big players who decide.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-123	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. It was an important meeting where the issue of Britain's membership of the European Union was on the agenda. It was important to reach a compromise with the United Kingdom, as was now the case. At the same time, many obstacles remain on the way forward. The UK will have a referendum on the EU, and the Commission and the Council will come back on legislative details. The question of the future of Europe is important, and Britain's being or not being in this community puts the future of the Union at its head. What will our cooperation look like in the future? Is the Treaty of Lisbon on a solid foundation? We Christian Democrats are friends of Europe and hope that our cooperation within Europe will be renewed, even if we do not want to see a federal Europe. My questions to the Prime Minister are: What is the assessment of whether more countries will take measures similar to those of the United Kingdom? What signals did the Prime Minister receive at the meeting? With regard to the issue of migration, which was at the summit, we Christian Democrats have long said that we need to get order and order on how border controls at the external borders of the European Union work or rather not work today. I am therefore pleased that, following our pressure on the EU Board and here in this House, the government has taken seriously the issue of an increased mandate for Frontex and is now advocating increased border controls at the EU's external border. What is the Prime Minister's assessment on this issue? Will It Be Real? The option is worse, namely that all EU countries themselves close their borders. The question is: does the Prime Minister consider that there is a majority and a mandate to take these measures?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-130	Madam President, I would like I share Mrs Pethrus' view that there are many obstacles left before the UK issue is on the table. Let us hope, however, that this will work. As far as the future of Europe is concerned, and if more countries are going to make similar demands, there is to date no signal that any or all other countries are about to do so. On the other hand – and I think I have expressed this earlier – I am a little concerned about our overall lack in the 28 Member States when it comes to dealing with the refugee issue. That is something that I have brought to several Member States that do not want to do their part. If we fail to do so, it will seriously harm the European Union. I think we should consider that. In that sense, I can feel some concern. This is not what we need now, in the world in which we live now, with a refugee crisis, an increasingly aggressive Russia and other unrest. Then we need a strong European Union – that is my conviction, and that is what we are working for. As far as the issue of migration and border controls are concerned, we have never been against it. What I have been saying all along on the border issue is that I consider it ultimately that it is Sweden's mandate, our national mandate, our competence that should apply first and foremost. But I also see that if the common border does not work, then the whole freedom of movement is at risk. That is why we also have a joint commitment. What is first on the agenda is Greece and the border there. Does that limit work? Does it work with hotspots? Does this mean that asylum policy works? These are the question marks that exist. I feel that we have a common ambition to ensure that our external border is maintained. But there are also many details that need to be done.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-137	Madam President, I would like With all due respect: the redistribution system within the EU of refugees and asylum seekers is, unfortunately, a dead issue, although both I and the Prime Minister would like to see this work. I think we will have to work on another principle, and that is to work on more legal ways in and have an external border control where we try to have contact with which people enter illegally into Europe. My question is: if Greece continues to work harder with its hotspots and people are registered there, under the Dublin Regulation, people should stay in Greece, because that is where they have been registered. Is the Prime Minister's assessment that refugees will remain in Greece under the Dublin Regulation? The second issue is about the Valletta meeting, which brought this up with more legal ways in and increased migration. Does the Prime Minister see the possibility that the Valletta Summit will discuss the issue of legal ways into the EU?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-140	Madam President, I would like I would not say that the redistribution is dead, but without a doubt it is extremely slow. There is some light in the tunnel, although it will not solve the whole issue. It is the case that Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, among other things, have said: we would like to help Sweden with redistribution. Everyone knows it's not about the big volumes, but it's still a signal that they want to do something in this part. Then, in my opinion, we will have the door open if there are other solutions to remedy the fact that we actually have to divide responsibility between 28 Member States. With regard to Greece and redistribution: the first and most important thing is that these hotspots work, so that Greece's border and hotspots work. Then you can do the registration and so on and then distribute. The distribution must then take place between 28 Member States. If it's going to work perfectly, I'll leave it unsaid. But that is the way we have to go now until we have some other system that we do not have right now. That is why I am calling for the concrete action plan from the Commission.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the Prime Minister for the report! This meeting of the European Council has also dealt to a large extent with migration issues. So have many previous meetings. It is good that, as he said, the Prime Minister has been pushing the questions of how the whole of Europe can take greater responsibility for migration policy ever since the Prime Minister took office. The problem is, I am sorry, that the results have not been achieved. The re-report is in many ways, as in previous re-reports, that the Prime Minister reports that Sweden has highlighted the issue and has demanded that previous decisions be incorporated, since very little has happened. My question to the Prime Minister is: how will Sweden move the other European Member States to assume their responsibilities? The Prime Minister mentions in his re-report that the Commission should now come back with a concrete action plan. Then I wonder: What is the Swedish Government's concrete action plans to get the other Member States in Europe to take their share of the responsibility and speed up implementation? It is quite untenable, as previous questioners have testified, that we have a decision to redistribute 160 000 asylum seekers within the Union but that only 500 have been redistributed so far. How will Sweden ensure that the redistribution and other decisions are actually implemented?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-146	Madam President, I would like I believe that Johan Hultberg also realises that one country does not decide in the European Union. That is 28 Member States. How do we do it in Sweden? Yes, we are seeking cooperation with like-minded people. That is why, quite just a year ago, I went to Berlin for a discussion with Mrs Merkel and just raised the question that it cannot be reasonable for two countries – or three or four, if you include Austria and something else – to take the responsibility of 28 Member States. It doesn't make sense. What do we do about this? How are we going to pursue this in our cooperation? That cooperation has begun. I am the first to admit that it has not been as successful as everyone would have wished. But those who raise and push for cooperation to work should not reasonably be those who are blamed for the fact that the other countries say that they are not so far prepared to do so? I think it is more a need to profile itself from the Moderates' side on the domestic political agenda, and that may be the case. But I think it would be good if we were helped in all directions and edges, also from Sweden with our contacts out into the world, and that we say that there is only one solution to this issue. The solution is that all 28 EU Member States are helping each other. We're gathering as many like-minds as we can. We are also part of the group that is pushing the question of what a future functioning system should look like. We are also doing this together with Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Finland and other countries, because we need to have a working system. Therefore, it would perhaps be nice to direct criticism even against those countries that are doing nothing. As is well known, even the Prime Minister of Sweden does not have the power of decision in other Member States.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-152	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It is, of course, the case that the Swedish Prime Minister does not have the power of decision over the other Member States. It is therefore important to have a concrete idea of how to convince them. Perhaps it is not enough for the Prime Minister to go to Berlin and speak with like mind, but perhaps we need to speak to someone who is of a different opinion to a greater extent. On the moderate side, we have put forward a plethora of concrete proposals on how we in Sweden can improve reception and migration. However, we have also put forward concrete proposals on how to move forward with a stronger voice within the European Union. One concrete proposal that I hope the Prime Minister can take on board is to put forward proposals to use the EU budget as a tool to get more countries to shoulder their responsibilities. We think, for example, that the Social Fund could simply be linked to performance, so that those countries that are involved in taking a great deal of responsibility do not get part of the appropriations under the Social Fund and those countries that do not take their share of the responsibility simply do not get part of the appropriations. Is this a way that the Prime Minister could envisage pushing this issue forward?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-154	Madam President, I would like There are many ways in which you can seek consensus on your proposals. It is absolutely right that it is not just to go to Berlin. That's why you're supposed to talk to everyone else. That's why I've spent a lot of time talking to other leaders about what's at stake. If we cannot accept a compulsory redistribution system, which system can we accept? Many of these countries are driven by the fact that they do not want anything to be decided in Brussels on their own migration. They want to make these decisions themselves. Then I have said: Let me hear what ideas you have for such a system to work. After all, it is still absolutely crucial that all the EU's 28 Member States should help each other. That's my principle. I'm not so locked to details and to what solution we find. But we need to find a solution that makes migration actually work. With regard to the EU budget, one must also look at the legal basis for such action and what it would mean. But, of course, we do not rule out the need to increase the pressure on those Member States that are not doing their bit.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-157	Madam President, I would like I have here a press release from Dagens Industri dated 12 February this year. There it is said that Foreign Minister Wallström thinks it is wrong for NATO to get involved in stopping the smuggling of refugees into Europe. Less than two weeks ago, therefore, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made it very clear that this is not a good idea. I also have here the conclusions of the European Council, paragraph 6, which clearly states – as the Prime Minister has also mentioned – that NATO should be active and participate in this work. In fact, I have a very simple question for the Prime Minister, and that is: what line did the Swedish Government take before the European Council? That is a very clear yes or no question. Was the government in favour of the idea of NATO participating in this work, or was it pursuing the opposite line? It is very important that there is clarity and transparency as to what line the government actually pursues in European cooperation.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-160	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte may not have been here in the first place, but the answer is as simple as the question. I have just explained this. When this discussion came up from the beginning, it was uncertain what mandate and what role NATO would have. This has been made clear, not least in a personal conversation with NATO's Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg. It is very clear that NATO's role in this is to help with monitoring. That's the part. It is not to actively stop and turn boats. That is the mandate that NATO has and stands for. In this respect, the Swedish government is positive.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-161	Madam President, I would like Yes, I have followed the discussions here, Prime Minister. The problem is that I do not believe that the Prime Minister has had a proper track of what his Foreign Minister has thought and thought. Because it is very clear that Mrs Wallström rejected the very idea that someone other than the EU should be responsible for managing the EU's borders. Now the Prime Minister is saying something else. He says that it was open to NATO to participate in this work, a little depending on the type of involvement and commitment that NATO would have. However, less than two weeks ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke categorically against the idea that someone other than the EU should be involved in this work. It is problematic that there is such a great lack of clarity as to what line the Swedish Government really is taking and that it is not even possible to clarify what the government's position is. This is symptomatic of the government's approach to European cooperation. It is a democratic deficit.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-164	Madam President, I would like If something is symptomatic here, it is the attempt of the Moderates to score domestic political points on such a matter. I can say this one more time, and I hope it will be made known, that it is on the record and that Fredrik Schulte reads this protocol. It is clear what mandate NATO is now given in this role. It's a surveillance mandate they want. They do not want any other mandate. In this sense, the Swedish Government thinks it is good that NATO can help. But NATO should not play an active role in turning boats and driving refugees away. NATO should not do that. With that, we think it's a good thing. I have said that, and that is the opinion of the Swedish Government.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-166	Madam President, I would like As we have talked about before, it was decided five months ago that 160 000 asylum seekers would be relocated within the EU within two years. So far, barely 500 have been redistributed. If this continues at the same rate, approximately 2 000 people will be redistributed within two years. I think we agree that this is a frighteningly low figure. Redistribution is an important issue for Sweden, as asylum seekers who are relocated from Sweden to other Member States according to this model mean a relief for Sweden's reception. Sweden has requested relief so that more countries within the Union take responsibility. How did the Prime Minister push this question of moving from words to actions when it comes to the discharge from Sweden?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-169	Madam President, I would like I can reply to this quite briefly. I have conducted this on several occasions in discussions directly with the President of the Commission, Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker, and we have also done so through our staff and have heard where this proposal for a decision lies. It is a proposal for a decision that is still under consideration. Then we will have to wait until the Commission has come forward with a proposal that is being put forward. We do not yet know what the proposal will be.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-170	Madam President, I would like There are probably quite a few of us who believe that the Prime Minister must clearly press for all Member States to actually comply with the decisions that have been taken jointly. For example, humanitarian aid and other funds that Member States have committed to contribute have not been delivered. I think this is an extremely urgent issue, and I would like to point out very much that the Prime Minister is also pushing this issue.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-171	Madam President, I would like I can assure Maria Plass that this issue is being pursued at every opportunity when it is given the opportunity, that is, that Member States together stand up for the responsibility on the migration issue and that we share the responsibility for receiving asylum seekers, but also that we are doing the right thing when we talk about humanitarian aid and where it should go. We had such a discussion last time in London in connection with the so-called Syria Conference. There we pointed out that it is one thing to say that it promises to pay, but it is another thing to actually pay. That's what makes the difference.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Christian Barenfeld has asked me what my position and that of the government is on the issue of sanctions against Belarus and how we work to influence, push and lead this issue. In October 2015, the Council decided to suspend most of the sanctions in response to Belarus' release in August of remaining political prisoners. The part of the sanctions that was not suspended, and which is therefore in force today, concerns four people who are linked to unfinished political disappearances around the turn of the millennium and an embargo on arms and other similar equipment. At the EU Foreign Affairs Council on 15 February this year, the EU's policy towards Belarus, including sanctions, was discussed with a view to the expiry of the current sanction decision on 29 February. The government remains concerned about the lack of respect for human rights and democratic principles in Belarus. The conduct of the autumn presidential elections did not meet international standards, nor have there been any concrete improvements since then. In preparation for the Foreign Affairs Council on 15 February, Sweden and a number of other Member States were therefore in favour of extending the sanctions as a whole, including the part which has been suspended since October. Against this was a group of Member States that wanted the whole sanction regime to be phased out, something which Sweden strongly opposed. EU sanctions are designed to be time-limited, which means that a unanimous decision on extension is needed in order for them not to expire. In the negotiations in the Council, we managed to reach agreement on an extension of the sanctions for a further 12 months, in the part of the sanctions in force today. However, no agreement could be reached to extend the part suspended since October, so sanctions against these individuals and companies will end on 29 February. From 1 March and 12 months forward, sanctions against Belarus will include asset freezes and entry bans for four people linked to unsolved political disappearances around the turn of the millennium and an arms embargo. The Foreign Affairs Council of 15 February also adopted, for the first time since 2012, conclusions on EU policy towards Belarus. In the negotiations, Sweden pushed that the human rights and democracy requirements previously linked to the sanctions should now be a condition for the EU relationship as a whole. We on the EU side are open to developing the relationship with Belarus, but it requires a gradual and conditional process in which the EU continuously evaluates developments in Belarus. Such a conditional process is also in line with what several Belarusian opposition groups wanted from the EU. In the negotiations within the EU, Sweden has also pushed the issue of the role of civil society. As a result, the problems of civil society organisations in registering are addressed in the conclusions, we call on the Belarusian Government to engage in dialogue with civil society on political issues as well as on the country's commitments in the area of human rights, and we stress the importance of including civil society in the EU-Belarus dialogue. The release of remaining political prisoners in August 2015 was an important step from Belarus in line with what the EU has been demanding for a long time. It is also positive that Belarus has signalled an interest in dialogue with the EU on developing a gradually closer relationship and that it is prepared to discuss concrete human rights issues with the EU. But to conclude from this that the country has undergone a democratic change would be naïve. Therefore, Belarus will be able to benefit from the benefits that a developed relationship with the EU would bring only once real reforms have been implemented. We should regularly test how, together, with dialogue and in other ways, we should promote positive development in Belarus and for the Belarusian people. Belarus' interest in closer relations with the EU is to be used to move it towards the EU's core values as well. We do this by clarifying our expectations for further democratic steps, while broadening our contact areas with the population of the country. Sweden will remain a driving force in this work.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-196	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply to my interpellation. The issue of Belarus, or Belarus as it is increasingly mentioned, is important and has been so for a long time. Unfortunately, we have been able to see that the democratic crayfish movement has basically escalated ever since the current dictator Aleksandr Lukasjenko took office more than 20 years ago, in 1994, in what would be the last democratic elections in the country since then. There have been many trips, and the relationship with the outside world has thus also been complicated. It's gone up and down. Of course, developments in Russia and the Putinist regime in the Kremlin have not simplified the situation. Lukasjenko has, in many cases, successfully played out the EU and Putin against each other and in some cases managed to take home victories from both sides. In the game with the EU, it has usually been a question of, as it were, deceiving a softer attitude and promises to make democratic improvements if the EU removes sanctions or refrains from introducing them. This took place, among other things, before the 2008 parliamentary elections when the last political prisoner, Alexander Kazulin, was released from prison on that occasion. At that time, the EU's attitude was softened. Hopes for a brighter future for the EU were in many hopes, as well as a certain belief that Lukasjenko was prepared to take another way forward. As usual, unfortunately, this turned out to be wrong, and a united world saw itself blown on the confectionery. D once again, the Belarusian people saw themselves robbed of the right to elect their political representatives in the presidential elections held in 2010 – the election that came to be the most violent so far, associated with beatings, repression and the mass incarceration of hundreds of people. After these events, a large number of restrictions were adopted, to a large extent on Swedish and Polish initiatives, to punish those who have committed the most serious attacks and to establish opportunities for influence on an increasingly harsh regime. Sanctions calling for democratic improvements in the form of, among other things, the release and rehabilitation of political prisoners, a reformed electoral law and freer media were introduced. In 2012, a parliamentary elections were held again, which once again showed virtually nothing but shortcomings. It did not in any way meet international demands for democratic elections. It continued to move forward on the part of the people involved as a dictatorship, and the outside world, promised improvements to the customer, was once again to see itself blown. Madam President, I would like Last autumn, in October 2015, it was time again for presidential elections. Unfortunately, all of us who were on the ground were once again able to note that the Belarusian people were once again deprived of their democratic ability to elect representatives, and we could not see any progress whatsoever. Not only in Sweden but also generally used in terms of improvements, but no matter who I have asked, I have never been able to get a single answer to the question of what progress is more than that we were possibly a few more allowed to enter the country and monitor the false electoral process. The question, however, is how many people were happier about it. Of course, political prisoners have also been released, but they usually do so in the face of every choice. I have debated this issue in the past with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I am pleased that we share the concerns about the situation in the country. Mr Jag has also read various statements and took note of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said at the meetings of the EU Board. On the other hand, I find it difficult to see exactly what line the government has taken in everything I have seen, and I would therefore ask the Minister to explain the line she and the Swedish Government have taken. What would have been the EU's decision if Sweden had been left to decide on this issue alone?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-206	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Christian Barenfeld, who I know is very committed and knowledgeable on this issue. Thanks also for the work you have done as an election monitor or rapporteur! It means a lot, and I appreciate that we have to talk about it. If we had the power to decide, the sanctions would have remained, and that is what we were pushing. In time, it became necessary to decide which path the EU would take. It was either keeping the sanctions as a whole or completely abolishing them. Finally, we realized that there was a great risk that they would be completely abolished. We then agreed to the compromise that has now been decided. Something else would have been unfortunate. I also share your assessment of the human rights situation in the country. There has been little improvement, and the regime seems to stand by its basic position. There are many things that Belarus could have done and which would have been quite simple. For example, it is about enabling the registration of parties and organisations and facilitating accreditation for journalists. I am, of course, sorry that Belarus has not taken those steps yet. Then there are a few signs that deserve encouragement. One example is the human rights dialogue with Belarus, which was resumed in Brussels and that the go-ahead has been given to a new meeting in Minsk this spring. Another is the effort made for constructive cooperation during the 2015 Universal Periodic Review Process. Belarus has also announced some activities in the spring on the subject of opinion-forming on the issue of the death penalty and has shown an open attitude towards continuing dialogue with the ODIR on the recommendations they made after the presidential elections. We do not see this as a particularly tangible or decisive step, but it is perhaps a good thing that they are mentioned as examples of what can be done. The fact that in the presidential elections the Belarusian authorities chose not to act violently against political demonstrators, that they abstained from violence, is hardly a positive step. But it reminds us that small steps towards normalisation can still be taken in Belarusian society. Madam President, I would like It is no secret that Sweden belonged to those Member States that wanted the current sanction regime to be extended unchanged. But it was not possible to reach agreement on this, but the risk was that there would be nothing left. We focused on defending the part of the sanctions that remained in force and ensuring that the Council conclusions that we adopted were as robust as possible in calling for improvements in the area of human rights and democracy. We succeeded well in both of these parts, and the decision that the Council has now taken has become much better and clearer in terms of expectations for Belarus, thanks to the strength we have devoted to these negotiations. With sanctions, it works in such a way that they are limited in time and must be extended by unanimity. The alternative to agreeing would have been to dismantle the sanction regime, and it would have been much worse.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-215	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I share the Foreign Minister's view, although I do not sit at the negotiating tables, that it is complicated to get a broad consensus on all the issues. Of course, it is a good thing that we have managed to ensure that there is still a sanctioning tool. I have a few more questions. How do we continue to work from the Swedish side? We do so in parliament and government, but we also have diplomacy in place. We once again have an embassy and an ambassador in place. The Minister will be happy to tell you a little bit about it. If I am not wrong, the Swedish ambassador also attended when the re-elected president was sworn in, which is not normally the case. But it was the ambassadors of several EU countries who did. What does the step-by-step and conditional process, which they are talking about, look like in the future, and what does it mean in concrete terms? I think it was very unfortunate when the European Council last autumn discussed the relief of sanctions against Belarus at a time that must have been by far the worst ever. While the EU Foreign Ministers discussed the suspension of sanctions for the first time and the softer attitude towards the Belarusian regime, the OSSE and we election monitors held a press conference in Minsk and, following the widespread electoral fraud, strongly criticised the Belarusian elections and the Belarusian regime. At the chosen time, it was a bit of a blow to the stomach of all the democrats and the Belarusian people and a pat on the back of the regime and the President of the European Union. After the 2010 elections, it was largely the Swedish Government, together with some close allies, who, despite strong opposition, pushed for and managed to impose strong sanctions against Belarus after the violent elections that had been then. The conditions were somewhat different. Has the Swedish voice in the EU quieted and has Sweden lost influence on such important issues as human rights and democracy? Has Sweden's voice weakened and our role become less relevant, as we do not get through this now? I am concerned that, in this serious situation, we are not able to convince our friends in the European Union of the importance of sanctions, because it is worrying when sanctions are lifted.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-223	Madam President, I would like It should be remembered that sanctions are one of several instruments in the EU toolbox, and one must assess what is best in any given situation. Sanctions can be part of a strategy that is larger and is a plan for how to get involved in a country. They must be seen as one of several parts of our relationship with Belarus. Sweden has been given the floor to ensure that, in addition to the release of political prisoners, the requirements that the EU previously linked to the sanctions will continue to be part of the EU's policy in the future. The signal must be that a closer relationship is possible and desirable, but that the process is gradual and conditional and that the EU is to continuously evaluate developments in Belarus. We will continue to work with many different instruments to improve the conditions for the country to develop more towards democracy and with strengthened democratic rights. This is about development cooperation. It is about dialogue and support for the Belarusian opposition and civil society, and that is what our diplomatic presence can contribute to. It is about environmental protection. It is about this type of commitment that is long-term for the people of Belarus. We shall also show that it pays to move closer to the EU and to EU cooperation. That's how we think about what we need to do. There were a number of countries that pointed out that sanctions were so clearly linked to the release of political prisoners. That is why they argued for having to respond very clearly at the time. There was something to it, although we argued very clearly in favour of maintaining the sanctions, particularly in the light of what you, Christian, described and what happened to the report from the election monitors. It is now important to stick to a strategy that is much broader and more long-term. But we are pushing in the European circle. Our vote has certainly not stopped, because then we would not be in second place among the countries on the ECFR Scorecard – the performance list that they do every year – when it comes to influencing the European Union. On no single issue are we regarded as a slacker, someone who is holding Europe back, but on the contrary, we are on the front line, and we are doing so on this issue as well. But it has become a much more fragmented picture among the EU Member States, so now we have to work hard. I think it is to a large extent our merit that we have been able to maintain the sanctions, that they were not completely abolished. It is a new political situation. However, sanctions and this type of action must be an instrument of many in a strategy towards Belarus.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-229	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State! I am also pleased that parts of the sanctions are still in place at the moment. The hope is, of course, that we would not need any sanctions at all. But these sanctions go quite far back, to the turn of the millennium. The sanctions resulting from the political problems in the electoral situation, in particular in 2010, which were partially suspended from 2008, bearing the Presidential elections in 2006, have, however, fundamentally disappeared with this. Since we do not see any light, I hope that Sweden will continue to push for further tough demands on the regime to improve. The release of political prisoners was a part, and of course you can respond to that. However, we have not seen any improvement in the media situation or in the electoral law. It can also be discussed whether there are any political prisoners. According to those who make these assessments, it is a person who is deemed to be a political prisoner. I hope that will come up at European level. I am well aware that Sweden is high in the measurements, and I hope that Sweden will continue to be high in the impact league in the EU. Under the alliance government, we rose significantly from a much lower level. The Foreign Minister, then Commissioner, noted that the Alliance Government was much more active on EU issues than previous S-governments. I hope it is not the same situation after this government when it becomes an alliance government again.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-234	Madam President, I would like Thank God it's gonna be a while. I thank Mr Christian for a good and important debate. We can see that the sanctions have had little effect. As far as the release of prisoners is concerned, a number of Member States felt that they wanted to respond to it. But we must retain the instrument and see this as another pressure. In addition, we must have long-term efforts and a dialogue and relationship with Belarus where we broaden the contact areas with the population of the country, protect those who are vulnerable and help civil society. We will remain a driving force in this work, and we thank it for its support. I look forward to a continued discussion on how the government, the parliamentary parties and the Swedish civil society can work for a positive development for Belarus and the Belarusian people.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-238	Madam President, I would like Sofia Damm has asked me where in the process the government's report to the International Criminal Court, the ICC, is and how the government follows up its statement, and its consequences, about the mass extermination in Syria and Iraq as a genocide. The conflicts in Syria and Iraq are a human disaster. The brutality of the Asad regime and Daish is indiscriminately affecting the civilian population. No one escapes, neither Sunnites, Shiites, Kurds, Christians, Yazidians, nor other groups. Assaults are also committed by other armed groups. Sweden calls on all parties to comply with the Security Council resolutions adopted on violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. The minorities of Iraq and Syria must have their rights respected. Violence must stop. There is no doubt that very serious international crimes are committed in Syria and Iraq. Coherent reports speak of gross, systematic and widespread violations of human rights and international humanitarian law. Punishment is not an option. The perpetrators must be held to account and victims must receive redress. The ICC may be empowered to investigate crimes under its statute – genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes – in several ways. A State may accede to the Charter or make a specific declaration conferring jurisdiction on the ICC over its territory and its nationals. Another option is for the UN Security Council, even without the consent of the State concerned, to confer jurisdiction on the ICC. The government, together with the other EU countries, has consistently called on the Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the ICC and called on Iraq to join the Court of Justice. Others, such as the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the UN Special Investigation Commission for Syria and the European Parliament, have also pointed out the importance of giving the ICC competence for the crimes committed in Iraq and Syria. When I participated in the Swedish Radio Studio Ett on 25 February 2015, it was the government's call to the Security Council to act in this way that I intended. There is no possibility for Sweden to refer the situation in Syria and Iraq to the ICC on its own. At the UN, we have a responsibility to work together to ensure that people in danger are protected, that there is an end to the conflicts and that those responsible for the abuses are held accountable. This responsibility applies regardless of whether these crimes are categorized as genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. There is no hierarchy between them. It is important to stress that our opportunities and obligations to act to protect populations in danger do not depend on establishing the legal classification of acts.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-247	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. On 4 February, the day I wrote my interpellation, the European Parliament made an important position when it was stated that the cleansing of minorities going on in the Middle East is a genocide. The Foreign Minister has reiterated earlier in the debate on genocide that what we call the ongoing cleansing is not important but that what is important is what we do. Of course, we should not hide behind or get stuck in conceptual discussions, but focus on ending the barbarity that is. But we politicians have an inescapable responsibility to turn every stone around and explore every option to see how, by means of positions, pressure and decisions at different levels, we can contribute to an end to cruelty and systematic murder. The fact that in official reports the UN is increasingly arguing about genocide in the description of the vastness that is going on in Iraq and Syria is important. Equally important for the assessment of the abuses is the documentation that proves that the Islamic State, Daish, committed and commits crimes with a clear intention to completely or partially destroy specific groups. The cruel purges have also been clearly reported by the organizations Human Rigghs Watch and Amnesty International. The Foreign Minister's reply points out that Daish's brutality affects the civilian population indiscriminately. No one escapes, neither Sunns, Shiites, Kurds, Christians, nor other groups. Yes, Daish's brutality affects far more than minority groups, but unfortunately their brutality is focused precisely on separating people: those who do not share their aspirations for the caliphate, those who are misled in the Islamic faith and unclean, such as Shia Muslims, those who, according to Daish's own interpretation of Salafist Sunniislam, are explicitly defined as a legitimate goal, that is, believing Christians and those who are termed unfaithful and enemies of Islam. The penalty for infidelity and enmity is in the terror organization Daish's world death and extinction. It is also emphasised in the response of the Foreign Minister that abuses are committed by other armed groups. That's right, isn't it? The situation in Syria is extremely complex, and violence and murder are carried out by many different groups, not least by the Asad regime itself. But the argument is somewhat unclear. Does the Foreign Minister think that we should therefore remain silent when minority groups in the Middle East, such as Yazidians and Christians, are systematically separated because they belong to a particular group? Why is the Minister for Foreign Affairs afraid to stand up for Christians and Yazidians who are systematically wiped out of the region? Why cannot the Minister for Foreign Affairs say with a clear and clear voice that what is happening is a genocide and therefore requires the action of the international community? Madam President, I would like To dare to take a stand on whether the criteria of the United Nations Convention on Genocide are met and, if so, to recognise that genocide takes place can change the dynamics. Just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs read out in his reply, impunity is not an option, and perpetrators must be held to account and victims of crime given redress. If this is to happen, the Swedish Government must also act. I would therefore like the Foreign Minister in this debate to specifically develop what the efforts are. In what way does the government press for the genocide to end up with the International Criminal Court, the ICC? What are you doing to bring justice to the end?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-258	Madam President, I would like There is a genocide going on – a systematic extermination of Christians and other ethnic groups in Syria and Iraq. The Christian national groups — Syrians, Chaldeans, Assyrians, Armenians, and even Yazidians — are killed because of their ethnicity and faith. Christian communities have been marginalised in the region. In recent years, the Christian population in Iraq has fallen by over 1 million and in Syria by over 800 000 because of sectarian terrorist organisations that put as ultimatum to either convert to Islam or be killed. In October last year, following the ongoing genocide, I brought a motion to Parliament that the Swedish Government should recognise the ongoing genocide in Syria and Iraq and work to ensure that the EU and the UN recognise the genocide in Syria and Iraq. Madam President, I would like I also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs a written question to draw attention to the genocide and that Sweden should actively promote international recognition of the ongoing genocide. In reply to my question, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has nothing to do with the genocide. She simply does not give an answer to the question or any information about a Swedish action. There seems to be fear of touching the persecution and oppression of Christian minorities. Madam President, I would like The existence and survival of Christians in the region is at stake. We must never deny or ignore the terrible things that are now going on, where thousands of people are severely affected every day. Madam President, I would like On 4 February, the European Parliament voted through a resolution calling on the Islamic State, the IS, to expose Christian minorities, Yazidians and other ethnic groups to genocide. The resolution was adopted by a large majority, and the decision is in line with my motion – the proposal that I made to the Swedish Parliament last year and that will be discussed in the Riksdag in the coming weeks. Madam President, I would like It is time for joint international military action to stop this human tragedy. The UN has a great responsibility and should act as a matter of urgency to destroy these destructive forces which decapitate, kidnap and rape people on a daily basis. What is happening is genocide as defined in the United Nations Convention on Genocide. The Swedish Government should recognise this as genocide and work to ensure that the UN also recognises the ongoing cleansing of ethnic groups in Iraq and Syria as genocide.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-266	Madam President, I would like I am grateful that Sofia Damm has raised this issue. It's extremely important. The persecution of Christian people in the Middle East because of their religion is terrible and disgusting. The Swedish Government plays a major role in protecting people from violence, persecution and discrimination. Sweden has, among other things, received a large number of refugees. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister, who has a holistic approach: what else are we doing on the ground in the region and in the region?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-269	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your comments. I have no other image than that of the Members of this House, and I can only repeat what I described in my reply. It is a human catastrophe that affects Sunni, Shiites, Kurds, Christians, Yazidians, and other groups. It is a terrible situation for many Christian groups– we agree on all of this. Words are important, not as a bat in a political debate about a situation that we share our concerns about, but because it matters legally what we call things. You know how it is with the Convention – sometimes it is difficult to use. There is a need for a judicial body to establish that it is a genocide. All the signs that can be traced and seen in the Convention are presented, but it is not up to me but for a judicial body to decide. We have therefore said that we want to refer this to the ICC. We think that is the role of the ICC. We want something to happen when it comes to responsibility. Nor is it up to Parliament to describe that it is a genocide, but it should be done legally so that we get action. I do not fear this debate at all. On the contrary, I have repeatedly met, for example, the Yazidians who exist in Sweden, and I will continue to do so. I will continue to engage with these groups to find an answer to my question: how do we best help, and how do we channel our support and humanitarian aid so that we ensure that we protect and help this group? I do not fear the debate at all. I keep it here all the time. I believe that the most important thing we can do is to act politically. Unfortunately, I very rarely hear from the Christian Democrats exactly what they are proposing us to do. It only focuses on one word as if it would help, but I do not hear any concrete proposals, nor from the representative of the European Parliament. The government works in several ways to bring about a solution. Firstly, we are working politically. We support the UN process, which we hope will lead to a political solution and peace in Syria. We are specifically helping the UN envoy Staffan de Mistura, and we are confiding people to him. We have helped women to have a voice in the peace negotiations. We are engaged in active dialogue with different parts of the Syrian opposition and civil society, including with the forces representing minorities. We are in favour of an inclusive and cohesive Iraq, which can have democratic institutions to protect the country's many different groupings, including religious and ethnic ones. Secondly, we are acting humanitarianly on the ground to resolve the acute crisis and alleviate suffering and distress. We provide comprehensive humanitarian aid: SEK 2.2 billion for the Syria crisis. We have increased it by 1.7 billion over five years through a new Syria strategy. Thirdly, we are now also acting militarily in the fight against Daish. As you know, a Swedish armed force is in place in Iraq now, and it is participating in the military training operation carried out by the international coalition against Daish. Daish threatens peoples with deep and historical roots in the Middle East. I therefore share your concern about the situation of Christians and other minorities in Syria and Iraq. We are doing something more than just discussing what word to use for these terrible abuses and crimes against people.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-280	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear. We Christian Democrats do not use the concept of genocide as a bat in the debate. We have been very clear about various proposals – how we want to respond to France's request in the fight against the terrorist organisation and in the establishment of safe zones. But what we're talking about here and now is how we can hold perpetrators to account and how we can get lawsuits going for justice to prevail. Then we will not escape the fact that the concept of genocide is a factor. Yes, it plays a political and opinion-forming role in exerting pressure. We do not get away from that when we highlight and term the systematic murder of minorities in the Middle East as genocide. I believe that this creates moral pressure on the Security Council to act, just as it creates pressure on all states to do everything they can and can to put an end to this. International law has developed a common obligation to protect – responsibility to protect. When a nation state is unable to protect its own population or is itself the perpetrator, the international community is obliged to take action to protect the population, in accordance with the UN Charter. The Secretary of State seems to acknowledge this. In the radio interview in Studio One that I referred to in the interpellation, the reporter asked: That you now state that this is a genocide, does it make special demands on Sweden's actions? The Foreign Minister then replied: Yes, because there is a convention. We are already working through the EU. We have reported this to the International Criminal Court and to the UN. We want this to be tested through the UN, precisely on the basis of the genocide convention. Today, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated that it was the government's call to the Security Council that was intended, but I still lack concreteness. What has the government done to ensure that the international community does not fail again? Now we are talking about the legal – how we can hold people to account so that victims can get redress.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-286	Madam President, I would like What if the Nazis could have been stopped earlier? By then, 6 million Jews would not have been killed in the Holocaust. What if the Great Powers had been able to stop the genocide of 1915 on Christian ethnic groups in Turkey during the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire? By then, not more than 1.5 million people would have been killed because of their Christian faith and ethnicity. It is necessary for us to act today if we are to save and protect the ethnorelic groups that are victims of abuse and mass murder on a daily basis. Now that the European Parliament has recognised for the first time an ongoing genocide, the recognition must be followed by action. Otherwise, the victims will not be protected from persecution and no help to return to their homes. The terrible deeds that are going on every day must be stopped and, of course, the guilty should be held accountable for their actions. It is now of the utmost importance that the UN should also recognise the systematic killing as genocide. Here I want the Foreign Minister to listen carefully. This would activate the UN principle of responsibility to protection, which imposes a collective obligation on the international community to implement the measures necessary to protect vulnerable groups. The representatives of the Christian Democrats, Social Democrats, Moderates, Liberals, Center Party and Environment Party in the European Parliament have all voted in favour of the resolution. But here our Foreign Minister seems to know best, and better than the whole of the European Parliament. I assume that our Foreign Minister does not duck for this issue, but departs from this fear of touch and works and works for the UN to recognise this genocide.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-290	Madam President, I would like When you hear Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström answer the questions, I think you get a pretty good idea that Sweden is a small country that is doing big things in the Middle East right now. I think it feels very good. I have a question for Sofia Damm. You write in the interpellation that 150,000 Christians die every year. I was wondering if you could come up here and discuss how that figure was made.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-292	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to agree with Robert on the description. We have no other description when we try to capture the terrible things that are happening. Then it is about: What can we do? How can we intervene now, as you say? Sweden can work primarily through our bilateral contacts within the UN and the EU. We shall call on all parties to comply with the Security Council resolutions adopted on human rights abuses and international humanitarian law in Syria. This also applies to the protection of the human rights of minorities. Then we continue to work for the Special Investigation Commission with mandates from the UN Human Rights Council to be given access to Syria. You don't even have access; you can't see what's going on in all places. We call on the Security Council to refer the situation in Syria to the International Criminal Court so that we really have a judicial review that can lead to the accountability of those responsible. The UN High Commissioner, whom I mentioned before, has pointed out the importance of giving the ICC competence in relation to the crimes committed in Iraq and Syria. The ICC can then be given jurisdiction to investigate the crimes under its Charter of Genocide, Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes in several different ways. A state can join, as I said, or the UN Security Council can grant ICC jurisdiction. Iraq has not yet given the ICC competence, and the Security Council has been blocked from referring the situation to the ICC. As foreign fighters who are nationals of ICC-affiliated states have participated in the conflicts, the prosecutor examined whether the ICC had the opportunity to initiate an investigation into them. The investigator then concluded that the leading tier in Daish is primarily made up of Iraqi and Syrian citizens. The ICC has no jurisdiction for them, and she was therefore unable to proceed with the investigation. It is therefore important that we continue to work to ensure that those responsible for the abuse are held accountable. Our support to the UN and other actors contributes, among other things, to the documented abuse. It must start with that – that you have access to the areas and that you can document the abuse. It is absolutely crucial if we want to demand responsibility and bring those responsible to justice. I know that protection zones have been discussed in this House. In any case, I have discussed it several times, and I believe that we need to consider all the ways in which we can protect all these vulnerable people, not least Christian minorities and the Yazidians, with whom I have spoken so many times, as I have said. Every proposal must be looked at and examined. It is high time that more was done to ensure the protection of civilians. However, this decision can only be taken by the UN Security Council. You have to go in with efforts so that it doesn't become a death trap. There must be a number of countries actively taking responsibility for and patrolling the areas. It will be very difficult to maintain protection zones when the contact lines on the ground are not defined and also in constant change, as in Syria. We must therefore be careful not to create death traps, however sympathetic the proposal may be. We must continue to discuss. We do this constantly in contact with these groups when it comes to how best we can help, not least with the humanitarian aid we provide.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-301	Madam President, I would like Of course, these are atrocities that arouse emotions. There are several here in the hall and many in our vicinity who have relatives forced to flee. We have seen this happen 100 years ago, and we want to do everything in our power to ensure that it does not happen again. And it happens. We must therefore see that we are going to try to find solutions and turn over all the stones, as I said at the beginning, so that we can at least say that we did what we could. Anders Österberg! I can't tell you exactly where our statistics come from, but probably it's from Open Doors, working specifically against persecution of Christians. To conclude – since we have a small closing statement left – I would ask the Foreign Minister to specify a little in relation to the Security Council. We are campaigning ourselves now to get a seat on the Security Council, and that is where the brake ball is when it comes to getting the issue further. How does the government work to bring about reform of the Security Council? When genocide occurs, it must be possible to exclude it from the right of veto. And how does Sweden work together with other countries to put real pressure on reform to come about? I think this is something we cannot deny. This is another example where the Security Council makes us terribly disappointed. Can we have a few more words about what we're doing? Otherwise, I would just like to thank you for the debate.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-306	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Sofia Damm, for an important debate! We have brought the recurring. I appreciate that, because it is important when the situation in Iraq and Syria is so difficult. Minority groups in these countries are vulnerable and have deep historical roots in the Middle East. That is why we must ensure the protection of these groups. There is no doubt that mass abuse is taking place in Iraq and Syria. We have a duty to ensure that people in danger are protected. It's no matter how we categorize them. What we can do is work towards individual countries but also in both the EU and the UN context on these issues. We can come across, and we can work diplomatically and politically with those countries that need convincing and which we see as important partners in pushing the issues forward. We are working a lot on the issue of the right of veto and our approach to reforming the Security Council. There have been interesting proposals, not least one which France is behind, proposing precisely that the right of veto should be restricted on issues relating to genocide and mass abuse. We think it would be a wise way forward to be able to support such a proposal, because it is probably necessary to step by step to reform the Security Council and the work of the Security Council. So this is something we are deeply involved in. It also shows how important it is for which issues one can pursue who is actually sitting on the Security Council. I appreciate your support for our candidacy for the Security Council.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-311	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson has asked me if it is not time for Sweden to take the initiative on the nuclear issue and again become a strong and self-evident voice for disarmament, whether nuclear weapons will be dealt with in connection with the bill for a host country agreement and when Sweden will sign the Humanitarian Pledge. Sweden is a strong and self-evident voice for global disarmament. One of my first decisions as Foreign Minister was that Sweden would join the humanitarian initiative that focuses on the terrible effects nuclear weapons have on people and nature. The reason is simple; nuclear weapons must never be used again. Sweden is taking several initiatives for this to become a reality and for all nuclear weapons to be abolished. A year ago, in the Geneva Conference on Disarmament (CD) I spoke about the need to resume the work of an open working group on nuclear disarmament at the UN General Assembly. This working group has now been re-established and met for the first time a week(on 22-26 February) in Geneva. The group gives all countries the opportunity to participate and pass on issues of nuclear disarmament when, unfortunately, traditional fora are still standing. We also support the new proposals put forward at the Disarmament Conference to start negotiations on a treaty to ban the production of fissile materials for weapons purposes (FMCT) and to discuss further nuclear disarmament. Stig Henriksson is right that in times of uncertainty it is even more important to protect international law and humanitarian principles. We are therefore clear that international agreements in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation must enter into force, such as the full Test Ban Treaty, the CTBT, and that existing agreements, such as the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the NPT, must be complied with and strengthened. At the same time, it is a worrying development that we are seeing. Some countries, not least Russia, attach a greater role to nuclear weapons in their military planning and increasingly use nuclear weapons in rhetoric to threaten and intimidate. It is also worrying that almost all nuclear weapons holders are modernising their arsenals. The risk of nuclear weapons being used has increased. Sweden therefore promotes initiatives aimed at reducing risks and building trust between the parties. Sweden also participates in international technical collaborations, mainly through FOI, to detect test explosions and verify nuclear disarmament. In addition, Sweden hosted a meeting last week(February 16-19) in Stockholm, in the framework of the Nuclear Security Summit process, which is about securing nuclear materials and preventing terrorists from gaining access to nuclear weapons. There, the Radiation Safety Authority, SSM, plays an important role. Nuclear disarmament must move forward at a faster pace. This is the approach of the humanitarian commitment, and this approach supports Sweden. The important thing now is to identify what measures can be taken to achieve this. In this, nuclear weapons holders have a special responsibility to participate in making disarmament a reality. Finally, I would like to touch on the issue of the host country aid agreement with NATO. The agreement itself has nothing to do with the question of what applies to nuclear weapons in Sweden. The agreement does not grant NATO the right to reside or operate in Swedish territory without a prior Swedish decision to do so. The agreement therefore does not give NATO countries the right to place nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. This will be reflected in the forthcoming Bill on the Host Country Support Agreement. Nuclear weapons must not be placed on Swedish territory, and Sweden has clearly highlighted this to the outside world for decades. A visiting state is in accordance with international law to comply with the conditions laid down by Sweden for the visit. It follows, among other things, from the principle of international sovereignty.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-321	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. I've asked you three questions. The first concerns if it is not time for Sweden to take the initiative on the nuclear issue again and become a strong and self-evident voice for disarmament. Here I would like to pay tribute to the Foreign Minister. I really get the impression that this is an ongoing and priority work that both means more and is better than I knew. Thank you for that part of the answer! Regarding Humanitarian Pledge, the Minister writes: I think that was very good, and it was a radical change of course from the previous government's rather passive or even negative stance on the matter. But now my question concerned Humanitarian Pledge, which, as far as I understand it, is a development of the humanitarian initiative. This isn't easy. If I have understood history correctly, the humanitarian initiative came in 2013, which was long before my time – yes, not in life but as a politician in parliament – and was adopted as a resolution by the UN in 2015. But in December 2014, a conference was held in Vienna where they launched something that was initially named Austrian Pledge and then changed its name to Humanitarian Pledge. I do not know what the official Swedish translation is or whether there is even anyone, but the closest thing to it should be to say the humanitarian promise. The background is quite obvious. There is now a great understanding that sufficient preparedness cannot be built up to deal with a nuclear attack. End of point. If nuclear weapons were to be used, it would create human suffering, a hunger crisis and a climate disaster that neither the UN, aid organisations nor states, despite great resources and preparation, could handle. This is important. I have not understood that Sweden has signed the Humanitarian Pledge, which would mean a total ban on nuclear weapons. Do we? 121 other countries have done so. If not, is it not the Secretary of State's intention that we should do so? The fact that the United States was opposed to the vote and the Norwegian NATO country abstained from the UN Committee brings me to the third question. Will the issue of nuclear weapons be dealt with in connection with the bill for a host country agreement? I am pleased that the Minister is so clearly promising that the nuclear issue will be addressed in the forthcoming bill, because I interpret the answer that it should be made clear. Unfortunately, this is in direct contradiction to the agreement itself, but also to the whole letter of the department which does not mention this at all. Actually, this should be in the agreement, I think. Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs not concerned that Sweden is increasingly being twinned with the structures of a nuclear alliance whose main representative, the United States, voted against the Humanitarian Pledge? After all, the host country agreement makes it much easier to accommodate NATO forces in Sweden in peace, in crisis and in war, whether Sweden is involved or if there is a conflict in our neighbourhood. Since the United States never announces whether their submarines are carrying nuclear weapons, it seems a little difficult for us to be sure of that. And how will other countries know that we are nuclear-free?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-331	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer, and thank you, Stig Henriksson, for the opportunity to discuss this important and constantly topical issue! Nuclear weapons are too rarely discussed as a threat to our existence. We often talk about terrorism, the climate threat, organised crime – major threats to global security – but nuclear weapons are indeed a threat that exists and that needs to be discussed more often. As Stig Henriksson points out, there are still arsenals that can destroy our earth many times over. Perverse sums are being invested in modernising. That money could be used for much more important things. If you have been to the border between South Korea and North Korea, you know that the Cold War is living in high-desired prosperity. This applies not least to the nuclear threat which, in view of the test explosions in which the last few weeks have been brought up to date. As Stig Henriksson also says, Sweden has a proud tradition in the field of disarmament. I would strongly argue that this tradition has been restored with the 2014 election victory. We have significantly increased the level of ambition in the field of disarmament. I have been standing in this House debating with Carl Bildt on the ban on cluster weapons and the humanitarian initiative and being met with scepticism. We have, between the lines, been called naive dreamers who believe that it is possible to merge with the Vatican State and other small nations and sign papers and get something done. Such has been the attitude. Now there is a completely different level of ambition. There is an understanding that we need to work broadly and ambitiously on this. In our Security Council candidacy, we have it as a supporting pillar in our UN work. We don't put all the eggs in the same basket. We use different instruments and different forums – the CTBT test ban agreement, the Nuclear Security Summit and FMCT on the production of fissile materials. We are working broadly and ambitiously. We're part of the Open-End Working Group. There Annika Thunborg may speak right now and bring forward Sweden's position. So there is a huge difference between what it has been like. Stig Henriksson is an honorary man who asks important questions. But I would strongly deny that there would be some flaws in the ambition-raising of this government. We have a foreign minister who was well arrested on his way to protest in Mururoa. The French were not very happy then. So we have a proud tradition that continues with this government. I'm happy about that. I would like the Foreign Minister to say something more about the NPT. We were both in New York barely a year ago. It failed, or rather it did not get as far as we would have liked. How does the Foreign Minister view the future of the NPT process, the Non-Proliferation Treaty?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-339	Mr President, I would like to I believe that active work on international nuclear disarmament is an integral part of Swedish security policy. This is always the case, not least in the light of the recent North Korea test explosion. We also see the maintenance of existing nuclear arsenals and the development of new weapons. It does not benefit our safety, and it does not benefit the security of the world to be led into a new armament spiral. That is why these issues are more topical. We are working to eliminate all nuclear weapons, mainly within the UN, through various nuclear disarmament initiatives. As has already been said, the open working group is largely the result of our re-engagement. We were in the smaller group of states that negotiated the disarmament component at the NPT Review Conference last year. We are doing work to reduce the risks. This is done, among other things, in the global think tank Global Zero. We have also re-entered the De-alerting Group, which is working to reduce nuclear weapons' fighting readiness. If more people realized what it would look like with combat preparedness and how dangerous it is, we would probably get even more support for de-alerting. We also contribute to technical cooperation to detect nuclear explosions and to verify nuclear disarmament. We very much hope that the open working group will be a way of moving the work forward. We are also pushing disarmament issues bilaterally towards Russia and in disarmament forums where both Russia and the United States are involved. We believe that this contributes to our own security and to a safer world. I'm not commenting on the host country agreement anymore. It will be a debate of its own. I have nothing more to say than the arguments I outlined in my first speech, Stig Henriksson. It will be clear that the host country support agreement does not give NATO countries the right to place nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. It will be explained what the decision-making process is and that we can guarantee our own policy in this area. When it comes to Humanitarian Pledge – I do not know what it would be called in northern Sweden or in Umemål, Stig – we think that new legal instruments are needed for disarmament to become a reality. A ban on nuclear weapons is one of the proposals under discussion, but it is not the only way forward. What is important is to identify what measures we can take to speed up nuclear disarmament. I will therefore take the initiative for an in-depth discussion on how the work can be carried out and how we can best contribute from the Swedish side. We have set up a delegation on international law and disarmament. I believe that this is an important and fundamental issue for that delegation. Therefore, I will ask them, above all, to look at what the next step should be. This is one of the possibilities that should be examined by this delegation.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-350	Mr President, I would like to I would really like to point out to Olle Thorell that nuclear weapons have been removed from the debate. It had almost been forgotten that they existed. I am so old that I attended the major debates and demonstrations against the SS20 and Pershing robots in the 80s. At that time nuclear weapons were an issue that was discussed very broadly. That is no longer the case, unfortunately. This is one way of trying to lift up that discussion. I can understand the Foreign Minister's reasons for not going into the host country agreement at this stage. But it is also an issue that has sailed extremely much under the radar. So I take the liberty of sharing some thoughts about it. It does not come from the fact that NATO is a military alliance with nuclear weapons as its cornerstone. It is stated in their Deterrence and Defence Posture Review that nuclear weapons are a key component of NATO's combined deterrence and defence capabilities. As long as nuclear weapons exist, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance. So that's the alliance we're getting closer and closer to. It can also be added that NATO still has a doctrine of first use, that is, it has not guaranteed that it should never be the first to use nuclear weapons. It also says – it's a little fascinating – in the Memorandum of Understanding 3.3: ..................................................... It is therefore NATO's doctrine that nuclear weapons are a central capability and that they are prepared to use it first. I think it's really serious. It was not entirely clear to me when it came to Humanitarian Pledge. I understand that we should not sign it now. I think that's a shame. I can't see any reason why we shouldn't. Returning to the host country agreement, nuclear weapons are still not mentioned anywhere in the agreement, in the 157 pages of the ministry letter – which I believe it is – although we all know what it means. Of course, there is no exception in the agreement to either deploy or transport nuclear weapons in Sweden. It can be said that it is known to NATO that Sweden has a ban on this. However, since the US NATO country refuses to state whether they have nuclear weapons in their bombers and their submarines, I do not know how much it is worth that we have talked about it. It cannot be enforced. There is sometimes talk of Norway and Denmark receiving exceptions. First of all, they have requested exemptions for the deployment of nuclear weapons, and they are certainly members. But those exceptions only apply in peacetime. What is not discussed or analysed at all in the Ministry letter is the impact of the host country agreement on the security policy situation, which is rather strange to put it very cautiously. That should be fundamental. How does this strengthen our security situation? Then it can be said that if it becomes a bit obscure whether Sweden is harboring nuclear weapons, I would say that this risks seriously impairing our security policy situation. I think there is a lot to say about this. But I'm going back to Humanitarian Pledge: Are we prepared to sign it, yes or no?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-363	Mr President, I would like to It is indeed the case, Mr Stig Henriksson and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that the nuclear threat is omnipresent, even if it is not talked about. Maybe it's worse now than when I was a boy and Stig Henriksson was a middle-aged man. It is probably more dangerous now, as knowledge transfer and technology transfer can spread much more easily. There are collapsed states. In the past, two superpowers kept track of their arsenals. Now knowledge is freer. There are so-called failed states, collapsed states, mad dictators, murder bands like Daish with great resources. In a way, the nuclear threat is now more acute. It is great that Sweden has the great technical expertise that we have acquired. We had an atomic energy programme in which these things were examined, and that knowledge remains to be found. We use it pragmatically to contribute to real risk minimisation. As I said, I cannot emphasize enough the change in course that has taken place since the election. We now support the humanitarian initiative. We recognise the power of civil society engagement and want to take advantage of it. We should not just see disarmament as a game to be played by the big boys around the negotiating table. It requires a popular commitment and it can be used to bring about real disarmament. I am pleased that we have had this debate. I'm not going into the hornet's nest about the host country agreement. It comes later in various propositions.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-367	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Stig Henriksson and Mr Olle Thorell, for this debate! It is a good and important debate on nuclear weapons and disarmament. Of course, the debate on the host country agreement will make it clear that nuclear weapons should not be allowed on Swedish territory. I am sure we will have our own debate on all the details. The nuclear issue is not an unimportant argument with regard to our military freedom of alliance. The idea is that, now that we have set up a delegation on international law and disarmament, it is precisely such a matter of principle that the delegation should deal with and try, that is, whether we should join the Humanitarian Pledge or not. That is why I believe that the delegation should have the opportunity to discuss it. It is also a way of creating popular support for these kinds of issues. Stig Henriksson can be confident that the work for a nuclear-free world is a priority in Swedish foreign policy. It is welcome that the government has the support of Parliament in this. After meeting some Japanese survivors, I understand that this can only not be allowed to happen again, the use of nuclear weapons. Thank you again for this debate.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-371	Mr President, I would like to Olle Thorell, at least we agree on several important things. The new government has made a change of course. We also agree on the importance of debating this issue. We may not be in full agreement with the analyses of the host country agreement, but we will have to come back to that in due course. What is this question that has almost been forgotten about? Today there are over 16 000 nuclear weapons in the world, and they pose a direct threat to our security and survival. If there's no war, it can still break out of pure mishap. There have been two exercises, a Soviet and an American NATO exercise that were about to be conducted to the brink of a nuclear war because the other side did not quite understand what was going on, that it was an exercise. It is very strange, of course, that while the states have banned through international conventions weapons that cause what they call unacceptable humanitarian suffering, that is, chemical and biological weapons, nuclear weapons are allowed to exist on the pretext that they create security. It's not like that. I am pleased if we eventually come to sign the Humanitarian Pledge. It is a small step among many other steps. I respect the process described by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The problem is that closer cooperation with NATO is going in the wrong direction, both in terms of security policy and nuclear weapons. Albert Einstein once said: Nuclear weapons have changed everything but our way of thinking. It's time to start thinking and rethinking. Therefore: Sign the Humanitarian Pledge! Therefore, tear up the host country agreement!
i-a9f783e5034e7082-378	Mr President, I would like to Birgitta Ohlsson, Tina Acketoft and Jabar Amin have asked me about the situation in Turkey. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. The government welcomes the momentum that exists in the EU-Turkey relationship. Developed cooperation with Turkey gives Sweden and the EU increased opportunities to make demands, promote reform processes and influence developments in Turkey. The government therefore continues to advocate a Turkish EU process with clear criteria and conditions in key areas such as the rule of law, democracy and human rights. The recent developments in Turkey have led to a decline in the area of rule of law and human rights. The situation of freedom of expression, in particular the freedom of the media and academics, is particularly serious. I have pointed this out to the Turkish Government and intend to do so until the situation improves. Through the EU, the government is working to open the key chapters on the rule of law and human rights in Turkey's accession process. Sweden also contributes bilaterally to improving the conditions for journalists and intellectuals. We are doing this on the ground in Turkey through our long-term support for reform. We intend to continue to focus parts of this on issues of freedom of expression. As part of our diplomatic presence, Sweden is also watching selected trials in Turkey. The negative development of democracy and human rights is reinforced by the conflict in south-east Turkey. I have repeatedly expressed my concern about the escalating situation and condemn the violence that has caused so many civilian deaths. Effective and impartial investigations must always be carried out in the event of the use of violence involving civilian deaths. On repeated occasions, in public and in bilateral contacts, I have called for an early return to the peace process. The Turkish Government's policy towards the people of the south-eastern part of the country has increasingly serious repercussions, not only on the long-term development of Turkey and the instability of the region. Unless the peace process is resumed as soon as possible, it will also become increasingly difficult for the EU and Turkey to develop cooperation. This would be unfortunate for Turkey's continued democratisation and reform process, but also for Turkey's and the EU's ability to face the challenges of the neighbourhood together.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-384	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his response to my interpellation on the appalling attacks on free speech by the Turkish Government. Over the last five years, freedom of the press in Turkey has been drastically reduced. It is not uncommon for high-ranking politicians including Mr Erdo to go out openly and criticise journalists, which leads to the people being harassed and sometimes also threatened with death in social media. At the same time, the government continues to use its financial advantage through media managers to influence the coverage of politically sensitive topics. A large number of journalists including prominent chroniclers have lost their jobs over the last two years as a consequence of these pressures. Those who remain must get used to working in a climate of increased self-censorship and media polarisation. In its latest freedom of the press index, Reporters Without Borders awarded Turkey seat 149 out of 180. Against this background, I do not understand the foreign minister's words in the interpellation response that the Red-Green Government is welcoming the momentum that exists in the EU-Turkey relationship. Many of us others see no real momentum, but rather an uphill, steeper than steepest, with a Turkish government which disqualifies itself from European cooperation on a point-by-point basis. We see in Erdo a president who, day by day, escalates the repression of the Kurds both militarily and politically. We see in Erdo a leader who throws opposition critics and academics in prison. We see in Erdo a leader who reacts with threats of prison where other political leaders – in democracies – would have laughed at political satire. It is not only regime-critical statements on politics that are being punished by the Erdo anarchist, but also general negative statements. I think that many, not least young people sitting in the gallery today or perhaps watching TV right now, have read the Lord of the Rings. A completely bizarre example is that Bilgin Çiftçi was fired from his job at the Health Service in November last year after he had shared pictures in social media comparing Erdo's facial expression with the character Gollum from the Lord of the Rings. In December he was to be tried, but the trial was postponed until now in February, when the judge had not seen the films or read the books. The crime for which Çiftçi is being investigated is an insult to the President, which can lead to prison in today's Turkey. I wonder just what momentum it is in relations that Mrs Wallström is seeing right now. The rest of us see only a compact Turkish darkness for freedom.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-390	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply to the interpellation I made. My interpellation concerned the issue of Turkish membership of the European Union, an issue that is close to our liberals. After the interpellation response given to us by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I may be able to ask for a little more answers on this particular matter. Turkey applied for membership back in 1987, but it was not until 2005 that talks were started with Turkey on possible future membership. Let me point out that even then liberals were and still are very in favour of Turkey becoming a member. But then, of course, democracy, human rights and the market economy must go hand in hand with that process. It was clear from the outset that the country had a very long way to go, and its legislation did not in any way meet the demands, among other things, of respect for human rights that we made. The relationship with the EU country Cyprus was and remains very worrying. Of course, the lack of respect for the rights of women, children and religious minorities also helped to put the negotiations on ice at that time. In other words, human rights were up to date in 1987, and I would say that they are just as topical today. My colleague Birgitta Ohlsson just listed very questionable situations regarding freedom of expression and press. I can put more wood on that fire by addressing the abuse of democracy activists. The lawyer, Tahir Elçi, was murdered last November after he on television dared to say that the PKK is not a terrorist organisation. Several of our own colleagues in this Chamber live in fear because they dare to take the debate on the PKK and Turkey. They go there and feel a great responsibility, because Sweden has a great responsibility. We have a lot of refugees from this region in Sweden. Freedom House annually ranks the countries of the world according to civil rights. One's the best on the scale, seven's the worst. Sweden is thankfully on one, while Turkey is constantly sinking. In its 2015 report, Human Rights Watch writes that the current government is eroding the progress made over the past decade. Corruption has increased, as has the violence among police officers during demonstrations. The possibility of requiring the responsibility of public officials is equal to zero. Like my colleague Birgitta Ohlsson, I am asking myself in the light of all of this what momentum the government welcomes in the relationship between the EU and Turkey. Of course, we all know what the situation is today because Turkey is right next to a war zone and, of course, this will be in the balance when discussions on EU membership are conducted. However, as I said, Turkey has a very long way to go. Only 14 out of 35 negotiating chapters have been opened and one has been closed. It is important that new Member States are mature when they enter the Community. That is why I asked the question how the Minister and the Government view the importance of EU enlargement in general. We Liberals call on the government to work both for Turkey to meet the Copenhagen criteria and for a credible rapprochement between the European Union and Turkey. I thank the Minister for saying that the importance of human rights is constantly emphasised, or at least where it is possible, but how exactly is this issue being addressed? How does the Minister intend to work to ensure that Turkey's accession process follows its democratic development?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-397	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for coming here to debate this issue. I also thank you for your answer, although it is not something I am proud of. I will start with some facts about what the Turkish regime is doing. Journalists are imprisoned and threatened, as the Foreign Minister knows. Editorials are stunning. I'm showing you a picture of a TV editorial stormed by Erdo's police because the editorial board dared to express criticism. Even when foreign editorials and the media express criticism, they do not go unpunished. I'm showing a picture of a Norwegian journalist who was recently thrown out of the country for expressing criticism of the regime. This is the regime we are dealing with. In addition to the attack on the media and the free forces, which Tina Acketoft and Birgitta Ohlsson also mentioned, there is a genocide against the Kurdish people. The Foreign Minister knows about this too. Cities are destroyed and besieged, and innocents are attacked and killed. I'm showing you a picture of one of the cities in the southeastern part of the country, or rather in northern Kurdistan. It's in the middle of Diyarbak. It's completely destroyed. It is not a question of punishment against one or two people, but of punishment against a population and ethnicity. This is a genocide, not just an attack on individuals for doing something to the government. But the destruction of cities does not only apply to Diyarbak. I'm showing you a picture of Cizre, another town that's been completely destroyed by Erdo an. We can list town by city. At least ten cities have been attacked by the Turkish regime in the last six months and by Mr Erdo and others. The victims are many. I am presenting a sign with statistics from a human rights organisation in Turkey. We see here how many innocent civilians have been arrested, how many Kurds have been killed and how many of them are women and men. Turkey claims these are terrorists. But in many cases they are children. Women sitting at home are hit by Erdo's bombs. All of this should be of great concern to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. She should express very clear criticism and condemn the Turkish regime's attacks on free speech in Turkey and the genocide. In this connection, I asked two questions: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs condemn this? I haven't got any answers. Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs prepared to take the initiative in bringing Erdo before the International Tribunal for Genocide? I have not received an answer to this either. I hope that the information given to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will lead to a better response.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-403	Mr President, I would like to The interpellants describe the specific vulnerability of human rights activists, journalists and other organisations promoting democracy and individuals in line with the escalation of violence and the war that is currently taking place in Turkey. Interpellant Birgitta Ohlsson – and I think Tina Acketoft did too – particularly raised a Kurdish human rights activist who was shot on the street in the city of Diyarbak Ц r, or Amed, earlier in November. His name was Tahir El ç i and he was a lawyer and president of the community in the region. I met him in connection with a trip with Social Democratic Members of Parliament and Olof Palme International Center, which we conducted to the south-eastern Kurdish part of Turkey just over two months before he was shot to death. Tahir El ç i told us on site. He called in particular for external assistance for a peace process in Turkey. He appealed for international support for the release of journalists, politicians and his colleagues who were lawyers and a halt to the state of emergency given to the military, which has led to cities being surrounded and civilians being shot to death. The Social Democrats have since met with the AKP and CHP and have invited HDP's party leader Selahattin Demirta ş to discuss the situation. We have also made it clear that we are willing to act as mediators in order to hold talks between the partners and bring about a peace process. From the government's side, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeatedly stated that the peace process must be resumed, the Turkish Government must undertake radical reforms and that the continuation of the membership process is a key to achieving a step forward in this direction. Perhaps the most important step in the democratic direction for Turkey is, of course, free press and freedom of expression, as Birgitta Ohlsson has pointed out, the rule of law and, above all, a solution to the Kurdish question in Turkey, which is very important at the moment. I fully understand the frustration and grief of the interpeller Jabar Amin. I believe that a great many Kurds, not least in Turkey, but also in the rest of Europe and here in Sweden, feel an enormous sadness about the situation and a continued powerlessness that it does not improve. This applies not least in the situation that has been and has been going on for over eight years. It is about the right to language, the right to culture, and the right to identity that has been taken away from a people for a very long time. My speech today is mainly about the fact that I believe that the way forward must be for the Foreign Minister to continue to appeal for a peace process to be resumed, for us to condemn the killing of civilians and for organisations that act in favour of democracy to receive support from Sweden. Of course, we must demand the release of political prisoners and those who act in favour of democracy and human rights in Turkey. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether she believes that we can increase the pressure on Erdo and the Turkish Government in order to bring about a peace process. It's urgent right now.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-412	Mr President, I would like to Honored Minister of Foreign Affairs! I would also like to thank Birgitta Ohlsson, Tina Acketoft, Jabar Amin and Lawen Redar. They have described the human rights situation in Turkey and the Kurdish population in an exemplary way. The situation is very serious, and human rights violations continue every minute. Birgitta Ohlsson touched on freedom of the press in Turkey. Amnesty has criticised Turkey very much and believes that freedom of the press is in decline. The independent Freedom House has previously described the press in Turkey as not free. Reporters without frontiers' freedom of the press index, as Birgitta Ohlsson has also mentioned, have landed in the unhonorable place of 149 out of 180 countries compared. Razzior against media groups and the arrest of journalists have become more commonplace. On Thursday 26 November, Can Dündar, editor-in-chief of the newspaper Cumhuriyet, and Erdem Gül, director of the newspaper in Ankara, were arrested. They were accused of supporting terrorism and of revealing state secrets. They were arrested after revealing how the Turkish security service illegally attempted to smuggle weapons and ammunition into the jihadist groups in Syria. They are now being prosecuted for terrorism and for revealing state secrets. The news site Bianet made a review that showed that between July and September 2015, 101 web sites, 40 Twitter accounts and 178 news articles were censored. Every day people's Facebook accounts are being watched, and anyone who writes a word about the president is being prosecuted. Again, this is happening while a large number of journalists are reported to have been arrested, sued or attacked. This has been systemized. It is not an exception but has become the everyday life of a great many journalists, news thinkers, politicians, opposition and progressive forces. They are prosecuted every day and sued for having somehow said or written something negative about the President. Nevertheless, I still think that Sweden and we must act together to help the progressive forces that exist in Turkey. Mr Redar described the exemplary journey made by a group of Social Democrats and also the dialogue that we had between ourselves and the HDP and also representatives of other Turkish parties in Diyarbak, but also in Ankara that the peace process must be resumed. The Kurdish question is important. It must be resolved by democratic means. I know that the Foreign Minister has often pointed out exemplaryly that the parties must return to the negotiating table. It is important that we push on from here on from Sweden and from all the political parties in this House. It is important to talk about and continue to demand that the parties go back to the negotiating table. The situation right now in south-eastern Turkey, or Turkish Kurdistan, is appalling. Jabar Amin has shown some pictures. There are many other images showing that it is not acceptable. We must act together and put an end to suffering.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-420	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Birgitta Ohlsson, Tina Acketoft, Jabar Amin, Lawen Redar and Serkan Köse for their contributions. Actually, Jabar Amin's pictures and his posts show the risk of what we say becoming synthetic. Perhaps my attempt to answer all the questions at the same time was also inadequate. I have great sympathy and sympathy for the locals in south-eastern Turkey. The Kurds and the rest of the population in the southeast are subject to curfews, fighting, acts of violence and abuse. This is particularly true in Cizre, which Mr Amin highlighted in his speech. I'm sorry about the many civilian casualties. You always have to start by saying that. What we see before us is worrying the whole world right now. It is deeply worrying that the fighting between the Turkish Government and the PKK is now intensifying. The escalation of violence not only makes it difficult to bring about peace and prosperity in Turkey, but also impairs the whole situation in the region and, not least, the attempts to bring about a political solution to the civil war in Syria. The shooting of civilians is not acceptable and must be investigated on a case-by-case basis. I call on Turkey to clarify these kinds of events. A week ago, the UN Commissioner for Human Rights drew attention to an incident in which seemingly unarmed people with white flags, all Kurds, were shot to death by Turkish security forces. That is, of course, unacceptable, and we must find out what has happened. The only way to end the violence and solve the problems in south-east Turkey is to resume the peace process. These have been important meetings, not least with Mr Demirtaş, as well as the talks I am of course also having with my colleague. Birgitta Ohlsson asks – and I knew you would ask about it – what momentum means. What do you mean? This means, first and foremost, that somewhere there must be a political will that can be mobilised. There is a political will right now from the EU to get involved and to put pressure on Turkey, and there is a process that is restored. There will be a new summit – I think already at the beginning of March. There will also be an opportunity to discuss money and the possibility of using what is a financial instrument to press for development. But here it is simply a matter of establishing a procedure, a dialogue, an opportunity to express our views. Just withdrawing from this now would not benefit anything, nor would it benefit Turkey's European approach. This government, like previous Swedish governments, believes that the EU process is the framework that provides the best opportunities to promote long-term and sustainable democratic development in Turkey. I hope that there is broad political consensus on this. What would happen if we just pulled away? We must ensure that we can continue to keep up the pressure on Turkey. We have close and extensive relations with Turkey. But also our bands to HDP I think give us good opportunities to influence development in a positive direction. I want to manage and further develop that. Turkey is one of the last Member States to have not ratified the Rome Statute of the ICC. The government intends to continue and ensure that Turkey joins the Court of Justice as soon as possible. It is also a way of ensuring that accountability can be brought to justice and to account. The EU process has its own track, and it is important to follow them and keep this alive, Tina Acketoft. That is exactly what we do, as we sometimes also explain in the EU Council, is our intention.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-430	Mr President, I would like to Madam Foreign Minister! I would like to make it very clear – as my Liberal colleague, Tina Acketoft, said – that we Liberals would like to see Turkey as a future member of the European Union. A clear, democratic, value-free and transparent Turkey could play a major role in and for the European Union. But I'm also wondering what kind of signals we're sending out right now. In a situation where Turkey is challenging the EU's ideal of freedom more than for a very long time, and where attacks on the free word hail, the EU chooses to move forward with opening more chapters in cooperation. There are very strange political signals, I think. We are certainly living, as the Foreign Minister explained, in a difficult situation in which Turkey is an important key player in resolving the refugee crisis. But it must not be at the expense of starting to blur the EU's human rights and fundamental views on freedom. At a time when members of the European Union are allowed too early into the Union, at a time when established members of the European Union are sloppy, trampling on and eroding the free speech – I am talking about Hungary and Poland, which are currently acting unacceptable in its attacks on free speech – the European Union cannot afford to flout human rights with any future members. I think it is important for Sweden's voice in the EU to be much sharper, and the voice of the European Union in the world must also be much sharper in terms of just pointing out violations of human rights and freedoms. If we don't, no one else will. That is the message I think is very important to bring.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-437	Madam President, I would like Helena Lindahl has asked me to what extent I and the government have engaged in dialogue with Winnet for, among other things, its continued work for equal regional growth and the extent to which we have taken note of the evaluations made by Sweco on behalf of the Swedish Agency for Growth. In addition, Helena Lindahl asks how the government and I have analysed the consequences of a missing operating grant for Winnet. Winnet Sweden is a national umbrella organisation for a number of non-profit organisations resource centers for women. Since the mid-1990s, the Government has financed the activities of resource centres through expenditure area 19 Regional growth and the Swedish Growth Agency's funding. The Government is working broadly to strengthen gender equality in Sweden so that women and men have the same power to shape society and their own lives. In the regions, actors with regional development responsibilities have worked with action plans for equal regional growth in 2012 – 2014 and are now responsible for gender mainstreaming of regional growth efforts. The Government considers that there is today an appropriate structure for gender mainstreaming linked to regional growth and that it is the actors with regional development responsibility who will be responsible for the continued development work for equal regional growth, where business promotion, among other things, is an important part. Against this background, the Government decided on 10 December 2015 that the Swedish Agency for Growth will develop the work for equal regional growth. The Swedish Agency for Growth will allocate SEK 36 million per year during the period 2016– 2018, which will primarily be allocated to actors with regional development responsibilities. It is therefore as much money as previously spent on women's resource centres, so it is neither a reduction of funds nor a reduction of gender equality in regional growth efforts, but rather a substantial effort on the gender equality work that is now being carried out effectively by actors with regional development responsibilities. The background to the government's decision has been communicated with Winnet. The Government has also taken note of Sweco's evaluations and Tillväxtverket's reports of the assignment. Prior to its decision, the Government has made an overall assessment, based on the results of evaluations in this area and new structural conditions with regional action plans for gender mainstreaming and that it is the actors with regional development responsibilities that will continue to be responsible for and develop the gender perspective in regional growth efforts. The Government's gender equality efforts will lead to sustainable results by integrating gender equality into ordinary activities, for example in decision-making processes, working methods and routines. It is a quality and development work that must be done in the regular system of actors working to develop and strengthen regional growth.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-442	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. When Prime Minister Stefan Löfven travels around the world, he often tells audiences that Sweden now has its first feminist government. In practice, this means investing more in gender equality and women's entrepreneurship than before. I hope that it is not just the number of women in the government that he refers to. Unfortunately, I think there are some problems with this. The initiatives that have previously been in place and that have been reflected, the government has unfortunately divested – ambassadors for women's entrepreneurship, Board power and now also Winnet. At the same time as the government claims to be feminist, the number of women starting businesses is decreasing apace. It may not really be so strange given that you threaten to strangle profits in welfare and have halved the RUT deduction. Now you go after Winnet. It is a national organisation that operates not only in the field of entrepreneurship but in all policy areas of regional development. Moreover, it is not least a grass-roots organisation. Winnet has been around for 15 years, has 80 member organizations and more than 8,000 members. So it is not a small group of women who stand with placards outside ICA and demand equality. It's a lot more than that. Now the government has decided that Winnet will not receive continued support for its operations and that these funds will end up with the Swedish Agency for Growth and, in the long term, with regional associations and county boards, that is, with the public sector. In his reply to me, the Minister says that the background to the government's decision has been communicated with Winnet. ..................................................... That's not true, if you ask Winnet. As early as 23 January 2015, Winnet's management contacted ministers Bucht and Damberg to try to get a meeting on how to continue work on equal growth. Several times you tried, but you didn't get an answer. Finally, in December, there was a meeting. But then the government decision was already on the agenda for the next government meeting. So it was in practice already decided but with zero communication with those concerned, namely Winnet. This is a rather strange way to go about it, and it is clear that you have wanted to make Winnet invisible. In my opinion, it's quite a typical rule technique. The natural thing would have been if you had had talks with Winnet before you actually decided that there would be no more business money for the organization. Why break a network that has worked for so many years and has also been so successful in its work, both in Sweden and in other countries? In my view, the way you deal with the situation and the work of all these women is under criticism, Minister.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-457	Madam President, I would like As far as these contacts with Winnet are concerned, they have taken place on several occasions at the Government Office. This is, in fact, a way of strengthening gender equality. It is part of the work of the feminist government that Stefan Löfven has. Helena Lindahl says that female entrepreneurship has decreased. Yes, that is why this work needs to be strengthened. That is why resources must also be added to the regional levels that work with gender equality and where these platforms and action plans have also been developed to work on these issues. It was actually a task that the previous government gave to the regional level, i.e. to develop action plans to strengthen gender equality in terms of growth and entrepreneurship. That's what we're doing now. We are providing these resources. Gender equality is not meant to be governed by the Swedish Agency for Growth here in Stockholm. It should be steered out in the regions, where you work naturally in everyday life with growth issues and where you also naturally have to have these aspects and must have the means to do so in a good way. Then it may be that the regions choose different ways of working on this. Indeed, the evaluations carried out show that there are very large differences between these networks and how they have worked. It is generally shown that the networks that have been located near regions that work with growth have worked better. I can imagine that at some regional levels these resources will be used in the work, but it is not something that should be controlled from Stockholm. This really is to strengthen gender equality in the regions and not to top control it from here. Those who are responsible for the work of growth, that is, the regions, also have a clear responsibility for gender equality issues.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-462	Madam President, I would like My question to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is then: How can you strengthen gender equality by taking money from a non-profit organisation, which has been active in Sweden for 15 years and apparently worked well, and instead build some kind of new organisation in the public sector? Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht says that it is not top control, but of course it is! That's exactly what it is. It may not be to top control from Stockholm, but it is to top control from politics or officials. I really don't understand how it's supposed to bring more equality. In the reply I receive, the Minister says that he has taken note, for example, of the Swedish Agency for Growth's report on Winnet's mission. Then I suppose Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has also read that the work says that there is a clear tendency that the gender issue has come up significantly higher on the agenda in the regions where Winnet and the regions have collaborated. In addition, I would like to point out that Winnet has contributed very valuable knowledge to the rural programme. An innovation agenda has also been developed, which Minister Mikael Damberg unfortunately has not had time to receive. In addition, activities have been carried out in other countries together with embassies, for example. Eastern Europe, for example, has helped to integrate its own organisational model, i.e. resource centres for women. Now the feminist government dissapears this work by strangling the supply of operating funds. I find that odd. Instead of developing an existing organisation and operations where 8 000 women are members, Bucht and the Government intend to give the money to the Swedish Agency for Growth, which in turn will distribute it to regional associations and county boards. I will quote from the Minister's response to the interpellation: J equality should be integrated into ordinary activities, for example in decision-making processes, working methods and routines. It is a quality and development work that must be done in the regular system of actors working to develop and strengthen regional growth. ..................................................... That is a sufficiently bureaucratic answer, if you ask me. This means that the county administrative board and regional federations will receive money to do what they should already do. Should 36 million a year be distributed for three years in order to make gender equality a natural part of the decisions taken in the public sector? I don't understand that at all. Unfortunately, it sounds like there will be a top-level governance of gender equality policy, and I regret that. Given that the Social Democrats are run from a peoples' movement, this is very strange, I must say. You of all people should know the value of grass-roots work, right?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-469	Madam President, I would like The Government Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is here bragging that the government is working broadly, and I must give him the right answer. Every effort that has involved efforts to increase women's entrepreneurship has consistently been made to remove, piece by piece. It can be about women's ambassadorship, Regkraft and Winnet, but it is also about engaging in conditions for entrepreneurship in industries where women are generally more active. Yes, the government is working widely – to remove any part that actually supports women in their entrepreneurship. It is also interesting to note that in the reply the Minister assumes that there is an appropriate structure for the work on gender mainstreaming. After all, it is not a new structure that is put in place and given 36 million, but it is already existing structures. They have been in place for a long time and have been in charge for a long time – and have not proved to be adult responsibility in terms of gender equality issues. That is precisely why Winnet's responsibilities and territory have expanded over time. Targeted efforts have been made that have become a force that has actually made it necessary to take that part of your mission seriously. The resources are now being allocated to those bodies that already had the mission financed with the money that has come from 80 associations with 8 000 members. It is associations that have been an important part of ensuring that those who have the task actually involve women's entrepreneurship in their work. I think it's poorly handled. I think it is badly handled, and I think it would be a shame if the government could get away with this kind of effort at such short notice for the changed conditions. These 80 associations are currently faced with the need to lay off both staff and premises, because what has not been communicated is that there are major changes going on. I think that this is extremely badly handled and extremely badly managed. This is an organisation that has worked very consistently and structured for a long time on important issues, and it still has a mission to do. I find this shameful.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-473	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government; there have been interesting contributions here. 中 Top-stealing is one of the concepts that has been used, i.e. that it has worked the way it has worked. The truth is, however, that it is exactly the opposite. It's bottom-up, that is, bottom-up, this has emerged. There was talk of grass-roots level here earlier. In previous years, there was a labeled pot to strengthen gender equality work and make it visible. That's the difference. It should not be controlled from Stockholm, but the Swedish Agency for Growth has distributed money precisely to stimulate an extra amount so that the gender equality discussion is kept visible and so that a number of things can be done. The purpose of the grant is to improve women's conditions and conditions through activities at local and regional resource centres for women through regional growth efforts. Activities will contribute to sustainable growth and strengthen women's entrepreneurship. A key concept has been meeting places for women. It's been a part of it. There has also been a forum for ideas for growth and entrepreneurship, employment and education. Network organisations for women have been about entrepreneurship and learning from each other, and the bottom-up perspective has been mixed with the local perspective – what often comes into play also on rural issues, as has also been mentioned here. It has been about gender perspective and gender perspective and opinion building, as well as collaboration with authorities, organisations and other actors. It has been about increasing women's influence in society and working life and about equal opportunities. It has been about contributing to the good development of local resource centres and networks for women, as well as contributions to contacts between these resource centres. It has been about increasing women's participation nationally and internationally. There have also been a number of reports that have not been able to write elsewhere, and they have been involved in democratic issues – not least with regard to the Baltic Sea Strategy. A government can do what it thinks it needs to do to strengthen something. I refer to the quote that Helena Lindahl from the Center Party also referred to earlier. The Government's gender equality initiatives should lead to sustainable results by integrating gender equality into ordinary activities, for example in decision-making processes, working methods and routines. It is a quality and development work that must be done in the regular system of actors working to develop and strengthen regional growth. ..................................................... When I read this, I think that the current government and the government have, in other words, considered that the work done in the past at these resource centres is now superfluous. Should I interpret it as no longer needed and that gender equality will now move forward in a different way, because it is now being removed?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-479	Madam President, I would like All projects must be evaluated. This has also been done with this project a number of times. The project started in the 90s, and a lot has happened since then. The regional level was not at all that way when this started once upon a time. The regional level has been given a much greater role today in developing the regions, not least in terms of growth and entrepreneurship. In the evaluations that have been made, it is said, as Helena Lindahl says, that it has worked well in some places but that it worked less well on others. The government has made a balanced assessment based on the fact that the regions have worked to develop action plans for how to work with gender equality work concretely in everyday life. The action plans form the basis for the balanced approach to strengthening gender equality by ensuring that the regions have these resources. Those responsible for regional development and growth must also clearly take responsibility for gender issues and also have the resources to do so. Then I think, as I said in my previous speech, that where it has worked well, I find it not at all too incredible that one will have a collaboration. But it is still the case that it must be decided in the regions, not by the Swedish Agency for Growth here in Stockholm, how the money should be distributed and how it should be used. We must give the regions that responsibility. So much has happened. The regions are increasingly in the driver's seat on development issues and must constantly include gender issues in their assessments of growth issues.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-485	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. What I really find most boring about your decision to phase out support for Winnet is that you haven't communicated with them. They're the ones who're affected by it. They wanted a meeting in January last year where they wanted to discuss: How can we develop this business? Is there anything you think we could do more? Then I think you should take that hand. If you've worked for 15 years, you've probably contributed to something. Otherwise you would probably never have been allowed to stay for 15 years, right? And of course Winnet is probably aware that some regional organizations have worked very well and others perhaps less well. But that's not a reason to go behind Winnet's back and make decisions in closed rooms without meeting Winnet until the day you have made internal decisions. It's definitely not okay. It's not even democratic on one spot. The Minister says that it will be more regionally and locally anchored and less controlled from Stockholm if the regions get more say and receive 36 million per year to work with gender equality. But I'm sorry, Winnet is probably about someone a grass-roots organization with both local and regional roots. Much more grass root can hardly be obtained in the public sector. Should county boards and regional federations receive 36 million a year to, as I said earlier, work with gender equality in decisions? Well, they're supposed to. And if they haven't done it before, then I'll be really upset. I don't think you need 36 million a year to do that. Back to Winnet: I find it very boring, as I said earlier, that you go behind the back of 8,000 women who are members there. Do you think it's okay to make an organization and all its members invisible in this way? They deserve more, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-491	Madam President, I would like All political missions always involve balancing, choosing a path. The money is not enough for everything – it would have been fun if they did. But just accept that that's the case. I think it is really unfortunate when an organisation like Winnet has to pay for a mission that should already have been done and in a better way. I am also concerned about what it means for this organisation at local and regional level, because by so quickly removing the economic opportunities for further work or having a period of transition, we risk breaking it down. What is the strength of a grass-roots organisation is that there are very many who are included from below and press and review both the decisions that we make here in Parliament and the decisions that are made at regional level. And they need to be vetted. Not only do we have to make wise decisions, but the decisions we make also need to be reviewed. There are NGOs in many places as an extremely important force, especially in the area of gender equality. In the struggle for money, it feels like with the feminist government there is a big blind spot, and that is all issues relating to women's entrepreneurship. All efforts and measures that in any way strengthen women's entrepreneurship have been systematically and consistently removed. This is just another piece of the puzzle, and I find it very unfortunate.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-495	Madam President, I would like I think that my representatives here in the speaker's chair expressed very well what it is about, a process that feels very unhappy and has not been communicated in a good way. As I said, if you have contact in January, it is still a few months after. It becomes problematic when money is drawn away so quickly and in such a way that you do not even have time to prepare for such a trip. If you've been working for over 15 years, you've done a lot of things. Sure, regions have emerged and it looks different, and a government decides how it wants to spend its money. The thing is that it is NGOs and at local and regional grassroots levels that have produced data which have become reports that have made women's conditions visible in a good way. Better processes and ideas have been developed that have brought women forward, not least in entrepreneurship. I would like to conclude by saying that the Council of State has now said that he thinks that this work is largely superfluous, because we are now taking a different path, as we can see today.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-499	Madam President, I would like In fact, it is about strengthening gender equality in the regions. What you advocate here is that the government here in Stockholm should say: This is how the funds will be distributed to the regions. Regions should not be allowed to take that responsibility on their own. That is what you say when you want to continue to have that centralisation. Instead, the regions were given a mandate to develop these action plans that they have worked on – very meritoriously. And we must give the regions the responsibility to deal with these things as well. Me and the government are feminist. We believe that the regions can carry out gender equality work in a good way. I am convinced that they will make good use of the skilled forces that exist in the regions to increase gender mainstreaming, especially in growth issues, so that more women can start businesses. Gender issues must also be included much more clearly in the statistics at regional level. It hasn't worked.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-503	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me if I share the assessment that meat consumption has increased in Sweden, whether it is my assessment that increased Swedish meat consumption is a problem for the environment and climate and what measures I intend to take to reduce meat consumption. I would like to begin by thanking Jens Holm for raising this debate and for giving me the opportunity to clarify my view on this issue. All food production affects the climate, but meat is one of the foods that has the greatest climate impact. On a global scale, livestock production accounts for almost a fifth of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions. Both in Sweden and the rest of the world, meat consumption has increased for a long time. A lower consumption of meat in both Sweden and other countries would be good for the climate and in many cases also for consideration of other environmental aspects. The consumer's choice therefore matters. The Finnish Food Agency provides information on how to eat both healthy and sustainable. Nutritionally, meat is an important source of iron and a good source of protein, but today many Swedes eat more meat than the Swedish Food Administration recommends. I do not think that we politicians should decide what people should eat, but instead work for each one to be able to make informed choices of their own. It is important that consumers receive good information about health effects and the environmental impact of meat. Meat production also needs to be more environmentally friendly. The Government believes that a larger proportion of the meat consumed in Sweden and the world should be produced in the same resource efficient way as in Sweden. Swedish production is good from a sustainability point of view, and Swedish production of meat and milk often has lower emissions of greenhouse gases than corresponding production in the rest of the world. We have plenty of land, a climate that benefits grassland production and plenty of water. In large parts of the country, where the conditions for growing crops are worse, grassland-based production contributes to an open and varied landscape. Animals grazing on natural pastures also make an important contribution to preserving biodiversity in Sweden. Swedish production also has an advantage when it comes to high animal welfare and low antibiotic use. If a larger proportion of production in the world looked like the one in Sweden, the climate and environmental impact of animal husbandry would be significantly lower. Although we have come a long way in Sweden, we need to continue to develop and improve production. A key element is improved productivity and resource efficiency, which both the industry and the authorities work with. I would like to highlight in particular the fact that the government has increased methane gas reduction aid to agriculture from this year on. This results in lower emissions of methane gas while the gas is used as biogas. Future food security and its environmental impact are global challenges that need to be addressed both within the EU and internationally. International agreements and cooperation play an important role here. Through the Paris Agreement, we have taken an important step forward towards all countries taking greater responsibility for the emissions generated by their own production. At the same time, we are also strengthening support for countries with fewer opportunities. The government will continue to be active in climate action both internationally and within the EU. I would like to conclude by saying that the government believes that we should exploit the potential that Sweden has for sustainable food production. The Government's goal with the work on a food strategy is to strengthen competitiveness and increase exports, innovation power and profitability in the food chain while achieving the relevant national environmental objectives.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-516	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht for his answer to my interpellation on reduced meat consumption. There are many good reasons to work for us to eat less meat. As Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht said, livestock production accounts for a large part of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, about one fifth of total emissions. In Sweden, animal consumption also accounts for large emissions, a total of about 10 million tonnes each year if we also include imported meat. 10 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions correspond roughly to the total emissions of our 4.4 million passenger cars. As far as cars are concerned, we fully agree that we need to reduce emissions and go more collectively and cycle more. But when it comes to what we eat, the Minister does not seem to want to make any political decisions whatsoever. We also know that large-scale meat production is exacerbating the eutrophication of our watercourses and seas. The rearing of animals and the production of feed for animals lead to nitrogen and phosphorus emissions that exacerbate eutrophication. It is also a question of solidarity with the world's peoples in poor countries. I don't think it's okay, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, that we in Sweden import 200 000 – 300 000 tonnes of soybeans from Brazil every year – not to raise Swedish vegetarians but to raise pigs, cows and chickens. Moreover, the production of these soybeans leads to a devastation of important natural land in South America, to the destruction of rainforests. It is also a public health issue. The Finnish Food Authority recommends a reduction in meat consumption, as the Minister mentioned, and the World Health Organisation, WHO, announced last year that some meats can lead to cancer and therefore also advocates a reduction in meat consumption. People! The list is long on all reports from our authorities and the most reputable universities that say that it is not sustainable to consume as much meat as we do in Sweden and the West today. When the Minister for Rural Affairs was questioned on Swedish Radio about two weeks ago if he thought that high meat consumption in Sweden was an environmental problem, he did not think so, but referred instead to meat being good. The Minister could not even answer if meat consumption had increased in Sweden despite the fact that the Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reports that consumption has increased by more than 40 per cent since 1990. Now I get a slightly different answer, for which I thank you. It feels like there is a greater understanding on the part of the Minister that over-consumption of meat is a major climate problem that also has a negative impact on the environment in other ways. That's good, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. But if it is such a major environmental problem, should we not take measures to reduce consumption? After all, we have instruments to reduce emissions from motorism. Then it would be no wonder to promote more sustainable, vegetarian food and reduced meat consumption. Is it so dangerous, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, to be involved in making such decisions? For example, it could be included within the framework of the food strategy that you have just mentioned.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-526	Madam President, I would like I thank you for both the question and the answer from Jens Holm and the Minister for Rural Development. In the discussion, I can see that this is a complex issue. It tends to turn a little black and white, but it really has a gray tone. It is about both consumption and production, which has already been discussed here. This whole must be included, and it requires that we have a broader discussion with at least most of the factors involved. I think it is difficult to include all the factors that may be relevant in this context. As the Minister for Rural Development said in his reply, surely we have the starting point that meat is basically an important food, an important source of protein and iron, and so on. We need to look at meat production. It's not the same in every place in the world. There are many things to improve, although I know fundamentally that we need to reduce meat consumption. It's important to discuss what kind of meat we're talking about. There are different climate impacts from different meats. It is about improved technology in agriculture, where, for example, emissions from manure can be reduced. It is also important to discuss the environmental benefits of grazing animals. We have been talking about this in terms of creating biodiversity and the open landscape that we all want. In agriculture, farming methods, energy use and such things are discussed at all. But in the pot is also that we should have a living countryside and a strong rural economy. That is another factor. When we talk about Swedish production, I would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise that there are important Swedish added value. It is about production methods, not least the low antibiotic use and the strong animal welfare we have in Sweden. I want to lift up a regional project that has been started up in western Götaland. The basis for this is that it has been seen that up to 18 percent of meadows and pastures have grown again. The species wealth of many of these land has been lost, only between 2000 and 2013. The project involves that the region, the county administrative board and SLU together will try to develop and integrate nature conservation, production and economics and make them interact so that profitability can be created. One of the interesting things you want to develop is the values of the public. Basically, we Liberals think that the consumer perspective is extremely important in this. One can talk like Jens Holm about sharp instruments and things like that, but from our side it is the consumer perspective and the consumer's informed choices that are the basis for what we have on the plate. I'd like to make that clear. As far as public values are concerned, we are, in the long run, talking about the willingness to pay precisely for the Swedish added value that I highlighted. In conclusion, the Liberals believe that meat production should, of course, be reduced overall, but that there are a great many other factors that we need to take into account.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-540	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Rural Development has given a balanced answer. Jens Holm turns on the big drum because the climate issue is primarily solved by reduced meat consumption. Of course, agriculture should also be examined and do its bit on this issue. Of course, environmentally friendly meat should be prioritised – then there will be a lot of locally produced meat from Sweden. Of course, there are breeding forms that need to be reduced in the world – there we agree. But agriculture has always existed. Humans have always been omnivores and usually feel the best of it. It can go with other things, but it's tougher. Jens Holm is very vegetable and organically oriented. Ecofood is often based on high livestock production; you get to realize that if you like it. I share the view that agricultural climate emissions should be discussed and changed in a more sustainable direction. Today, however, emissions are being blown up to enormous proportions, and I would like to try to nuance this a little. I brought an interesting article by Kjell Andersson from the Swedish Bioenergy Association. He is knowledgeable in energy and renewable energy, and I will talk a little about it in the Minutes. He opposes the fact that it has been claimed in the media, for example in the Swedish evening press, that meat consumption accounts for one fifth of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions and that global meat and dairy production affects the climate more than cars, aircraft, boats and trucks do together. According to Kjell, this is not consistent with the truth, and I believe that is true. He has read the report that underpins this claim, namely the 2014 IPCC Report: Total greenhouse gas emissions are 49 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent. It has converted methane, lust gas and other greenhouse gases into... equivalents in order to provide a combined value for climate impact. Approximately 60% is carbon dioxide and the other greenhouse gases together account for the rest. D an absolute majority of emissions are related to energy production and use in electricity and heat production, industry and transport. Transport accounts for 14% of total emissions... in the case of transport, it's all about carbon dioxide. – –– Almost a quarter of the total emissions occur within the AFOLU echo tower. The abbreviation stands for 中 Agriculture, Forestry and Land Use. Here, all emissions linked to agriculture, forestry and land use have been lumped together, in inclusive deforestation. Total emissions from this sector are 24 per cent of 49 billion tonnes, i.e. 11.8 billion tonnes. Some of these emissions are carbon dioxide, but there is also a lot of methane and nitrous oxide. ..................................................... What, then, is included in this AFOLU sector? 中 Approximately half of the emissions came from deforestation, drainage of peatlands, peat fires and emissions from cultivation on organic soils, where deforestation accounted for the absolute majority. – – – The point that can be directly linked to meat and milk production is the emissions of methane... it's about 2 billion tons... equivalent. It is one fifth of the AFOLU emissions, or 4% of the total global greenhouse gas emissions. This compares with the 14% from all traffic. ..................................................... What I would like to emphasise is that we can certainly discuss agriculture, we can certainly do more to make emissions move in a more environmentally friendly direction, we can certainly buy Swedish meat that contributes to this and there are certainly breeding forms that need to be reduced, but it is above all the fossil fuel we need to reduce in order to address the climate issue.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-552	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to mention Swedish Radio's reflection of what I said, but I will have to when Jens Holm brings it up and says that I claim that meat consumption has no impact on the environment. I would like to inform Jens Holm that it was an interview that lasted for 60 minutes. I have all the audio files left, and you will gladly get them, Jens Holm, so that you can listen to them and hear how it was rendered. I mentioned, among other things, what I said just now in my answer about the global impact and the difference compared to how Sweden affects. I said meat is good, and I think it's good. I said fish is good, and I said vegetables are good too. But sometimes wolves can dress in sheep's clothing, and then the reflection can be a little different. I don't mind eating less meat in our country. If you want to influence the climate, I have absolutely nothing against eating less foreign meat for the benefit of Swedish meat. You actually have an effect on the climate. If you look at Swedish agriculture, you can see that we have significantly improved resource efficiency. Of course, this is partly because we have fewer animals, but we also use our animals more efficiently, not least through the combination of milk production and meat production. This means that we have a small amount of emissions per kilogram of food produced. That is something we must remember. We should also remember that Swedish livestock production means so many other benefits, not least the open landscapes and biodiversity. For this it is necessary that we have grazing animals; without them we would not have this. We know that large parts of our country do not have the type of agricultural land where you can have so much other than grassland. It is grassland that can be converted into other food products through livestock production. We have 600 000 hectares of arable land in our country that we do not use. We are about to break the ten million threshold in Sweden when it comes to the population, and soon we will be 11 million. Yesterday, on this globe, there were 230,000 more people. There will be the same number again today. We are increasing our population by large numbers – 2 billion more by 2050. It is clear that no one can opt out of food. That is something we must have. We must be able to take part in this, and we must increase our food production in Sweden. We are not going to reduce it, we need to increase it. It should be sustainable and climate smart. There we are much further ahead than others in terms of livestock production. But not everything has been done; much more can be done in this area. We have good information on these issues, but the information needs to be further developed and done even better so that the consumer can make his informed choices. It is not least that we mark the goods from origin so that you can see that they are produced in Sweden. In this way, the consumer can make conscious choices. Unless the goods are labelled, it is difficult for the consumer. I want to be on the side of the consumer here. It's very important that we do it. Then, whether it is vegetable cultivation or animal production, cultivation can look very different from an environmental point of view. In our country we use very little chemicals, but in other countries we use a lot, and many things that also have a dramatic negative impact on the environment.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-562	Madam President, I would like I think we have come a bit in this debate, and that is a good thing. The Minister for Rural Development says that meat consumption has increased a lot in Sweden and that it is a major climate problem and a problem also for other environmental areas. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht also refers to the Paris Agreement, which obliges us to do more than we might have previously set ourselves. We must save the climate and save this planet for the sake of our children and grandchildren. Then I think this is going to be a little weird. Thus, a sector that, according to the Minister for Rural Development, accounts for one fifth of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions and for a large part of the emissions here in Sweden – an equal proportion of our passenger cars – should not have any instruments at all. We're not gonna touch it. All other sectors are, as far as I know, debating and defining objectives and instruments. It concerns the transport system, how we heat up our homes and premises, the entire energy sector, of course, and a variety of other areas. But when it comes to what we eat, you hear from the minister in charge that he does not want to go in and control what people put on their plate. But, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, that is not what I mean! I don't think anyone wants to do that, just as we don't go up to an individual who gets in his car and says: Right now you're not allowed to drive, because I'm a politician and I decide which people are allowed to sit in a car and what days! That is not what this is about. It is a question of adopting general instruments to reduce emissions in all areas. What we eat is a political issue, just like everything else. I would like us to be able to agree that it is desirable to reduce meat consumption, because then we will also reduce emissions. If we can establish that, we can have an action plan for reducing meat consumption. Such an action plan could, for example, support the public sector in order to eat more sustainable and vegetarian food. This applies not least to our schools. I've been out to a lot of schools, where they're really good and creative in the school kitchens. They really want to serve more vegetarian food. But they give me a clear message: we would also like political support in this! Some also say: And then we want some money so that we can convert to real cooking kitchens and buy in some better vegetarian food! We could support new, innovative vegetarian food. We are already seeing in the counters in the shops how a variety of exciting vegetarian alternatives have emerged. But we could speed up the process. We could work towards the removal of animal subsidies at European level. Today, our tax money is being spent on transporting animals and slaughtering animals. You even give advertising money for people to eat more meat. It's totally bizarre. We could add to the food strategy that you are currently negotiating, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, that it is desirable to reduce meat consumption. I don't really think this is so dramatic. But I'll ask you again, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. If we now agree that these are major emissions, can we not also agree that it is desirable to reduce meat consumption? Can we agree on some sort of action plan for reducing meat consumption? I would like an answer to that.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-571	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm referred to the food strategy. So did the Minister for Rural Affairs at the end of his reply. I think it is important for it to come forward, and I think I share the rural minister's view more. From a liberal point of view, it is about competitiveness and consumer perspective. It should of course be about sustainable food production, but it applies to all types of food production and not specifically to meat production. I know that we may have different views on instruments, what are instruments, what is effective and so on. On the Liberal side, we have strong faith in the consumer perspective and the consumer's ability to choose. It is clear that labelling of different types on the market can be developed. I believe that the current trend among consumers will not only run out into the sand, but will continue. After all, people want to eat well, and they want to eat right. I think that way will be very effective in the future. If one can have some type of market-developed climate-pressure label, it could be a solution, but we should not go in and do this through legislation. Meat tax has been discussed here and there and this type of instrument. We see this entirely as a way that we should not go forward. If we are to assess what people are going to eat or not, we are really starting to get into the wrong areas. I think we're going to have a very complicated situation. As I said, the consumer in the centre! It is quite interesting that, when we discussed emissions to 2045 in the Environmental Objectives Committee, we saw that Swedish agriculture should remain and have its emissions but that it should have increased production and reduced emissions.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-575	Madam President, I would like I question the standard figure that one fifth of the world's emissions come from meat. It's definitely wrong. From agriculture and livestock production it is perhaps 5 – 10 per cent. We shall also take that into account. But we have to eat, and eating food and producing food emits. What can we do in Sweden to reduce the climate impact of world agriculture? Eat a little less meat, perhaps, primarily less meat from outside breeding that is not good. There are those. We can eat more from the environmentally friendly Swedish agriculture based on fields and pastures, stop the cycles and so on. The great threat now is that we are eating more and more imported food. The big question we need to discuss is how we increase Swedish production. There, I and the Minister for Rural Development share the same view. We need a force here. It is good that a food strategy is being discussed. I am concerned that there will be very fair speech and not so much substance, but I hope I am wrong. You need to cut costs sharply and so on. I was in Ronneby yesterday at a center meeting. There I met Ingrid Bergström, who gave me a mug and said: Give one here to the Minister for Rural Affairs! The painted picture of the mug depicts a crisis — a new animal, half a cow and half a pig. She felt strongly about the acute crisis in Swedish milk production and wanted to encourage the Minister to do even more with this mug. I will therefore end my speech by handing over this mug to the Minister for Rural Affairs Bucht.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-580	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Danielsson, for the beautiful coffee mug! Globally, we have large emissions in a nimalieprod ution. I agree there, Jens Holm. Should we reduce our impact on the climate, it is good if we eat less foreign meat, for the benefit of Swedish meat. It'll be a quick effect if you do that. But I'm not going to say, as a minister, this is what you're going to do. I'm not going to go to the consumer's breakfast, lunch or dinner table. On the other hand, as a politician, I will do everything in my power to develop information for consumers. We have our authorities who are already providing good information, not least the Swedish Food Safety Agency via their dietary advice, but there is still much more to do here. There is also much to be done with regard to food labelling so that our consumers can see where the food comes from and what it contains. It should be very clear to make these conscious choices. When it comes to how we affect the climate at individual level, I have seen the calculations showing about 10 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per person per year. Of this, food consumption produces 1.8 tonnes, of which more than 1 tonne comes from animal and dairy production. So about 90% is different. We have to put it in the picture when we talk about this. I think we're fooling ourselves if we don't have it in the picture. For example, a Thailand trip emits 2.5 tonnes. So we'll have to think a little bit about this. The major problem for the climate is our dependence on fossil fuels. We still have a lot to do there. If it is any country in Europe and the world that has the opportunity to get away from fossil fuel, it is Sweden because we have so much forest. 70% of our area is covered by forest. Here we can change our impact on the climate a lot and get away from fossil fuel altogether. Here I want to make a huge effort. Of course, we will also make efforts on agriculture and increase efficiency and improve production there in order to reduce the climate impact from there as well. But I still think it's important that we put this in relation to how we affect the climate in many other ways that are not at all good.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-586	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say to Staffan Danielsson of the Center Party that the report that is usually referred to with regard to this fifth of the world's emissions is the FAO's Livestock report, which came in 2007. Deforestation contributes to an important part of these emissions, and I do not understand the reasoning. Would deforestation not be a major problem? That we know that less consumption of animals is a way to curb deforestation is very important, isn't it? These figures are audited, commented and fully solid and useful. I would like to thank Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht for the answers, but I do not think it really holds the blame on Thailand's journey. The last time I checked, and I actually did this morning, it was a one-way trip to Bangkok from Stockholm 500 kg. Turn and turn, it's 1 ton. Yes, there are large emissions, but you were on the idea that animal consumption means a little more than a tonne a year, and so it is more than one Thailand trip every year. We are going to reduce emissions from aviation – that is something we agree on, I think – but, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, should we also reduce emissions from what we eat? After all, we have instruments to reduce emissions from motorism. We have taxes, and it has been effective to reduce emissions from there. Similarly, we have dealt with alcohol and tobacco. We have made political decisions to keep consumption down. Surely it should not be so dramatic to agree that a reduction in animal consumption is desirable? We, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, would achieve great benefits, not only for the climate and the environment as a whole, but also for public health and not least for animals. If we eat less meat, we can treat the animals that remain in a more ethical way. Wouldn't that be good, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-591	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that I think it is important for consumers to be able to make informed choices. It's extremely important. You cannot do that unless you are well informed, and that is what consumers should be. We have a responsibility as politicians to ensure that they are properly informed. Consumers can influence the climate when they can make informed choices. The Swedish production of milk and meat is very climate-smart compared to how it is international. Our northern climate and our rich rainfall are strengths that enable us to produce grass. To be able to use the grass you have to have animals, and to be able to open the landscape the grass must be grazed. Cattle farming that we have here has many advantages and also means that we have the open landscape that we all love and like to see. I think that Jens Holm also likes the open landscape and that we have biodiversity. Food and food issues are the focus today. Many people are interested in them, and many consumers connect food and health. In the food strategy, that part will be touched on very clearly, but I would like to say again that the policy should provide good and accurate information, but we should not sit at the dining table of Swedish consumers and decide this or that. If Jens Holm wants to do it, it'll have to stand for him, but I'm not going to hold that line.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-594	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me how I ensure that help comes to fleeing women and what concrete measures I have taken that are directed specifically at girls and women. There are currently some 60 million displaced people in the world. It is estimated that half of the refugees are women. A growing proportion are also children. Sweden is the fifth largest donor country in the world of humanitarian aid, which aims to save lives, alleviate distress and maintain the human dignity of fleeing people and other needy people. Humanitarian aid has traditionally failed to take account of the various needs of women and men, girls and boys in natural disasters or conflicts. However, this has changed in recent years. Sweden has had, and continues to have, a driving role in this important change work. One of the government's top priorities for the World Humanitarian Summit that takes place in Istanbul in May is therefore the special role of women and girls in humanitarian crises. Sweden has also been chairman of Call to Action on Protection of Girls and Women from Gender-based Violence in Emergencies since the turn of the year. It is an international initiative aimed at improving the management of gender-based violence in humanitarian crises. Swedish humanitarian aid is needs-based and is governed by the humanitarian principles of neutrality, impartiality and independence. Looking at the specific needs of different groups, including women and girls, is also an integral part of Swedish humanitarian aid. Crisises can reinforce economic, social and political discrimination against women and girls, limiting their access to assistance and support or making them more vulnerable to sexual and gender-based violence. Furthermore, it may be important to protect women and girls in particular from increased exposure to trafficking in human beings. However, in carrying out humanitarian operations, it is important not only to see women as victims. Women are also important actors whose influence can contribute to a more effective humanitarian aid effort. Sweden is therefore actively pursuing the issue of gender equality as a priority in humanitarian aid. The gender perspective should be integrated into the specific humanitarian efforts that Sweden supports, from the first needs assessment to the final follow-up. Particular priority is given to prevention and protection against sexual and gender-based violence. Sweden also supports specific efforts, such as the implementation of the UNHCR's global strategy against sexual and gender-based violence and that special gender advisors can be sent out in the field to strengthen the humanitarian response. Gender equality is also an important issue for Sweden in the management and advocacy of humanitarian organisations as well as in all other humanitarian forums.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-602	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. 60 million people are on the run in the world, and unfortunately the vulnerability of women and girls is a reality. Not infrequently, it's about life and death. Poor access to care, for example in connection with birth complications, as well as violence in close relationships often leads to death. We also know that violations in women's everyday lives mean that their rights and freedoms are becoming increasingly narrowed in countries around the world. However, as the Minister says in his reply, we must also ensure that women are not just victims but that they are strengthened as important actors in a more effective humanitarian aid effort. The UN Security Council has adopted four resolutions calling on Member States to strengthen and protect the rights of women and girls in conflict situations in various ways. It is above all about having a gender perspective on the conflicts that exist in the world and being aware of the different ways in which men and women are affected. Violence is different from men and women. The WHO reports that 90 percent of direct deaths in wars and conflicts in 2002 were men. But women and girls are often systematically attacked as a conscious strategy in warfare, often in the form of sexual abuse. It leaves nasty traces in the victim, both physically and mentally. Being humiliated and violated without getting redress leaves a lifelong trail. According to UNHCR, few men talk about the sexual abuse they are subjected to in conflict situations, even though it is known to occur. But it's so taboo. Conflict management and peace building are still a male-dominated process. Although women are often strong peace activists at grass-roots level, they rarely participate in formal peace negotiations and reconstruction initiatives. Women's involvement in conflict management and peace-building measures should therefore be increased. Unifem reports that in ten major peace processes over the last decade, only 6% of negotiators were women. And when the peace agreements were to be signed, only 3 percent of those who signed were women. This often results in the agreed peace excluding half the population whose needs and rights are not taken into account. The constant under-representation of women in decision-making is well known. We in Sweden, of course, go ahead there. Girls and women have not had the same opportunities as men to influence power structures in many countries of the world. Giving women equal opportunities as men to participate in the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts is an important issue for both democracy and gender equality and development. Resolution 1325 has been fundamental to many of the initiatives we see today in integrating women and conflict issues into our international efforts. I have a number of questions for the Minister which I would like us to continue to discuss. Are countries where these violations take place prioritised by the government? How does Sweden focus on help and support for the most vulnerable? Is Swedish aid specifically targeted at women and children in war-torn countries? And how does the government support women's participation in reconstruction, for example?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-612	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Lotta Finstorp for the opportunity to discuss these important issues, which we absolutely must not forget. Today we have a world with more wars and conflicts than in a long time. Over 60 million people are on the run. The fact that women and children are particularly vulnerable in refugee situations is something that we must take very seriously. Social structures are usually broken when you're on the run. As a result, the weakest groups, often women, are the most vulnerable. This applies not only in the situation of escape but in the world. As a refugee, you live without rights and in a vulnerable situation. I have traveled a lot for a year and a half as a minister. I have met many refugees, many women, and seen the vulnerable situation in which these people live. If you are in a refugee camp and you are also being persecuted, abused, exposed or threatened inside the refugee camp itself, there is nowhere to go. I was in Dadaab, Kenya, on the border with Somalia. There was a sheltered home inside the camp. Women who are persecuted or abused by their relatives, by their husbands, inside the camp can move into the shelter. They have nowhere else to go. They cannot move back into the camp because they can even be killed there, they cannot enter the society of Kenya because no refugees are allowed to work there and they cannot return to Somalia because the situation is as it is there. They are therefore refugees in a refugee situation. Sweden and other countries have a great responsibility to receive quota refugees who are precisely the most vulnerable in the camps. Women are forced into prostitution in order to support themselves and their children. The men are gone, maybe dead or in war. You marry your daughters away because you're desperate. You don't have a chance to support your children. These are indeed desperate situations in which women have a very difficult — not to say unbearable — existence. For us in the government, it's about trying to help women. Just as Lotta Finstorp says, it is also about giving people their own power to change their own lives, be involved in conflict prevention and crisis management and ensure that they are involved when peace comes. As a feminist government with a feminist foreign policy, we are driving 1325 very hard. We have initiated female peace broker networks, both in the Nordic countries and in our partner countries. In the humanitarian work, we make sure to get this perspective into all policy work. It is also a top priority for the humanitarian summit this spring.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-620	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a very important debate that is unheard of difficult to put your finger on! As politicians, you want to make decisions in order to get a certain solution. It's not that simple. An equal foreign policy is financed by the government with three years: rights, representation and resources. I've been thinking about this interpellation and the situation of women and girls in the world. It's possible I'm floating out way too much, but I'm wondering one thing. There is a strong migration to Sweden, and there are many more men and boys than women who come. Would it be possible to link equal aid to equal integration? Many will flee to Sweden and Europe. Is it possible to find a bridge-building effect between equal aid and equal integration? It is a more philosophical question, but it would be interesting to hear what the Minister says about this. It is a strong under-representation of girls and women fleeing war in different parts of the world. Of the 163 000 asylum seekers who arrived in Sweden last year, 70 per cent were men. Ninety per cent of the unaccompanied children were boys. In the 15 - year - old age group, 119 boys and 100 girls came here. In the 16 - year - olds there were 117 boys and 100 girls. These figures can be compared to what it is like in China. In Sweden, therefore, there is a greater difference. And we have always been horrified by the inequality in China. What is the government's gender equality analysis regarding the gender perspective? Can equal aid be linked to equal integration in Sweden? Is there any way of preventing aid to war-torn countries from supporting women in such a way that they can come to a better world in a simpler way? The figures show, in fact, that it is the men who flee. It is generally men who have a better life while women and children remain. It would be interesting to hear what the Minister says about the connection that I have only thought of my Chamber. There is no right or wrong in this, but it is perhaps impossible.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-627	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the questions, Lotta Finstorp! I am not so sure that we are able to change the basic structures that make it men who usually have a freer role and more resources. As a result, they find themselves in a gender power system where there are more boys and men who have the opportunity to get to Europe and the security of war, violence and conflict. That is the reality. What Sweden is doing when it comes to aid and quota refugees is that we demand that there should be a very balanced gender balance between men and women on the quota refugees that we receive. Then we work extremely actively with gender perspectives and to strengthen women in refugee situations. We do this by insisting that sexual and reproductive health and rights are extremely important and a vital component of humanitarian efforts. Since 1 January 2016, Sweden has been holding the Presidency in Call to Action, as I mentioned earlier. It is an initiative to ensure that every humanitarian response has the necessary policies, systems and mechanisms to reduce the risk of gender-based violence. Particular attention should be paid to the vulnerable situation of women in order to strengthen women in this way. We also have a Gender standby capacity project that we support via Orcha. It is about sending out experienced gender advisors to strengthen humanitarian response. Now I am talking a great deal about humanitarian efforts. Lotta Finstorp talked about wars, conflicts and war-torn countries in general. Of course there's a difference. The Government has given higher priority to working with conflict prevention measures and with the most fragile states. We always have women's and women's rights as a pervasive theme, and that is a priority in all our efforts. It is quite natural because women are more vulnerable, but women also have enormous potential. Lotta Finstorp mentioned that women must not be involved in peace talks and in the peace process. It is very ironic because those who have started the war cannot be the ones who shape the peace. Women are also needed to participate in contact with society at large, making peace more sustainable in the long term. One more thing I can mention, as we do, is to ensure that cash and money that refugees receive are given to women. It gives the woman control over the family's resources while at the same time strengthening the woman's position vis-à-vis male relatives. It can be so important in that situation.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-635	Madam President, I would like I am very happy when I hear that you look at a gender balance when it comes to quota refugees. That's the only thing we can control, so to speak. It is very good to have this included. This cash subsidy thing was something I didn't know about. Women can, and that's very good. I understand exactly why they do that. It's incredibly good to think in those lines. There can be no doubt that the feminist government focuses on women's rights and women's rights. But the Council has decided to cut back already promised aid to the Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. This reduction will take place with SEK 300 million this year, if I have read correctly. There are 159 organisations that are upset and have written protest letters demanding that the decision be demolished and so on because it risks tens of thousands of lives and hundreds of thousands of new infected people. It will, of course, affect women if aid to combat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria is cut. A lot of resources are needed to stop HIV, TB and malaria. The Global Fund has been counting on this. This is about 35 percent of the money that had been deposited, so to speak, for 2016. This could lead to 800 000 more people being infected with HIV, TB and malaria. What do you think? Health aid and women's health should be very high on the government's agenda. I wonder how this cutback will hit women.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-640	Madam President, I would like It is true that the government has a very large amount of health assistance. Nearly 4 billion a year goes to various health efforts, partly within our bilateral strategies with different countries. Here we have protected and specifically focused on the poorest and fragile states with a focus on the SRHR. Then there are several different facilities that specifically focus on health. The Global Fund against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria is one of them. Unfortunately, in the light of the large numbers of refugees we do, the government has had to find something to cut back on, and this is a fund that, in our opinion, is well funded. Sweden accounts for just over 3 per cent. You can compare with Unaids, where Sweden is a very large donor, or UN Women. It would have huge consequences if Sweden cut down on those organisations. We have chosen the least evil in a tight budgetary position. This is by no means the only channel for Swedish health assistance, and certainly not the only one in terms of SRHR or specifically for women. On the contrary, we have protected it to the extent that we have been able to do so. We have also made it clear in the regulation letter to Sida that this is how the government wants to see it.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-643	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me what assessments the Ministry of Finance has made of the risks of the RUT deduction being pushed away in favour of the ROT deduction and whether I share her concern about the jobs in the domestic services sector. She has also asked me whether I share the Swedish Public Employment Service's assessment of the government's changes to the RUT deduction and what initiatives I intend to take. Anette Åkesson has again asked me why it is more important to frame high-income earners than to increase the number of jobs for young and newcomers, reduce undeclared work and facilitate women's entrepreneurship and what factual arguments the government and I have to reduce the conditions in the RUT deduction. The construction of the HUS deduction, which came about under the bourgeois government, reduces the scope for ROT work to make RUT deductions and vice versa. However, it is not considered to be the case that there would be a large amount of displacement, mainly because a smaller proportion of the users of the HUS deduction are estimated to fall into the ceiling of the HUS deduction. I share the opinion of the Employment Service that the RUT deduction can provide jobs for people with relatively weak links to the labour market. However, the Government makes the assessment that the changes in the RUT deduction that we have implemented do not make any difference for the vast majority of RUT buyers and therefore for example for employment in the industry. The rationale behind the changes in the RUT deduction that came into force on 1 January 2016 is that the RUT deduction should be directed more towards ordinary households. It is important for the legitimacy of the tax system that fiscal policy is perceived as fair. This is something I have repeatedly responded to in this House.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-647	Madam President, I would like At the turn of the year, the deterioration of RUT and ROT deductions by the Red-Green Government came into force. The ceiling for the RUT deduction is halved to 25 000 SEK. The ceiling for the ROT deduction remains at 50 000, but the deduction is 30 % instead of the previous 50 %. This is a construction that continues to benefit those who can afford large renovations but impairs those who do minor renovations. If we look at the RUT deduction, we can only say that there has been a very successful reform with up to 20 000 new jobs. Black has turned white. Women's participation in the labour force has increased. Families with children make the everyday puzzle go together. A lot of women have started their own businesses. Perhaps the most important thing is that people have got their first job, not least very many foreign born. Madam President, I would like Those who buy RUT services are involved and contribute to increased employment. More purchased services simply mean more jobs. With the RUT deduction, the consumer can buy services at reasonable prices. At the same time, this means that companies in the private services sector can grow and employ more people on fair terms without having to reduce wages. From a sustainability perspective, it is also wise to stimulate the purchase of services rather than increasing the consumption of goods. In addition, we can ensure that this consumption is domestic. Perhaps that is why the government partner of the Social Democrats, the Green Party, is more fond of the RUT deduction than the Social Democrats themselves are. Madam President, I would like If the Minister for Finance and I can agree that more purchased services mean more jobs, should it not be logical to give consumers the opportunity to do just that? This applies not least to an industry that is completely new and immature and has the potential to develop into more jobs, and also to those groups that are weakly connected to the labour market. It is about giving the industry a chance to develop new service concepts that neither the Finance Minister nor I can speculate about today. It is about giving the industry a chance to build in peace and quiet with viable companies over time so that another 16 00 0 people who are far away from the labour market get a chance to get a foothold there. The recession is pointing upwards at the moment, but these people are often the ones left standing on the platform when the train leaves. My question to the Minister for Finance is: how many trains will be allowed to go before everyone can join?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-652	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for addressing the legitimacy of the tax system. That it is important to maintain the legitimacy of the tax system, we in Sweden are politically in complete agreement. It is almost a precondition for a country that collects high taxes to finance a great deal of well-being for its citizens, among other things. The RUT and ROT deductions were only two of the reforms carried out by the Alliance that helped strengthen the legitimacy of the tax system. The Swedish Tax Agency's measurements show that the acceptance of the tax system increased significantly between 2006 and 2012. In the 2013 survey, only 22 per cent disliked the Swedish tax system. Historically, it's a very low figure. What is usually mentioned as contributing factors to the legitimacy of the tax system is predictability, equal treatment and the prosecution of fraud. There too, the Swedish Tax Agency's measurements are relevant. In 2012, only 16% indicated that they knew someone who was tax fraud, a low figure compared to previous measurements. On the question of whether you personally know entrepreneurs as tax frauds, the figure was down to 9% from between 25% and 29% before 2007. It is therefore the RUT and ROT deductions that have made a decisive contribution to strengthening the legitimacy of the tax system among the Swedish people, and the current deteriorations in the S and MP government have already contributed to reducing the legitimacy of the tax system. It is clear to everyone who talks to entrepreneurs in the industry. For the first time in several years, they are now being asked to do work against payment. Is that something that the Minister of Finance is proud of? How is the argument that the RUT deduction should be directed towards ordinary households relevant at all in response to the question why it is more important to nail high income earners than to ensure increasing the number of jobs for young and newcomers, reducing undeclared work and facilitating women's entrepreneurship? Ordinary households are only affected in that they no longer know what applies and think that the rules are more complicated. It's bad in itself. Predictability suffers from the deterioration of the rules. This in itself contributes to reducing the legitimacy of the tax system. Most households do not reach the limit of $25,000. Therefore, it does not involve any costs or revenues for the State, nor does it constitute an argument for the deterioration of the RUT deductions. The only reasonable conclusion is that the deterioration that threatens the legitimacy of the tax system in a number of ways is directed solely at those who have high incomes. Why? It is ideological social-democratic prejudices that haunt, and it is unfortunately feelings that govern the government. The RUT reform creates effective jobs – as has the Minister of Finance acknowledged – and they are self-funded. The RUT jobs are real jobs but with a low threshold. These are exactly the ones we need in Sweden with many unemployed people without work experience or who do not yet speak so well Swedish. It is jobs in companies that are largely owned and run by women. Those who work get good conditions, and the customers get security. When we talk about customers: What difference does it make objectively if the customer is a high, low or middle wage earner? A job is still a job. Why do S and MPs want to worsen those with high incomes, even if the effect is that it hits those with weak links to the labour market hardest?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-661	Madam President, I would like I have repeatedly answered the questions that both Anette Åkesson and Helena Bouveng have asked about the RUT deduction. The questions are repeated, and I repeat my answers. I am not sure that further interactions will make either Helena Bouveng or Anette Åkesson more satisfied with the answer. However, my answer is the same as every time, just as your questions are basically the same as before. Once again, I can answer the questions I receive from you repeatedly. However, it does not seem obvious that the debate is moving forward. The government has made the change in the RUT deduction to increase legitimacy. Here I and Anette Åkesson have different views on what is important for the legitimacy of the tax system. Further repeated questions will not change my mind on this. But I have respect that Anette Åkesson has a different view of this. We have made a change to increase the legitimacy of the system. This affects approximately 1 per cent of those who buy RUT services and is therefore deemed not to have a significant impact on employment, especially since that percentage has an average income of approximately SEK 960 000 per year and therefore reasonably has the economic potential to continue to purchase the services even afterwards. We believe from the government that this is an important industry. It's a good thing it's a thriving business. It is also important that many people with weaker links to the labour market can work in the industry. That is also why we have made a very small change in the RUT deduction. It is important that there is also clarity about the rules that apply so that companies can feel calm and secure in continuing to operate in the industry. The extension of the RUT deduction agreed in the agreement on migration policy is also a good thing. There the government has gone out with a memorandum of division. We are waiting for comments on this.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-667	Madam President, I would like If I am not completely misinformed, the consultation period expired on 8 February for those concerned to comment on the proposal to extend the RUT deduction to floating services, IT services and gardening. It is contained in the Migration Agreement with the Alliance with a view to facilitating the entry of asylum seekers and new arrivals into new jobs. If you look at the referrals, it's both rice and rose. This is because the services are being extended and rice because the ceiling for the RUT deduction is not restored to the previous 50 000 SEK. It is only Jonas Sjöstedt and LO who might think otherwise. From this point of view, we can still hear that it is worth nothing at all. The fact that the Minister of Finance does not take the impression of me, Anette Åkesson or anyone else who has intervened is not news. We understand that. Nor does she do this by individual entrepreneurs, the Swedish Enterprise Tax Delegation or the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. It's not a secret. But what about the government's own work that is responsible for getting people into work and that cannot be accused of having any other interest than just getting people into the labour market? In an interview in Ekot on 3 February, Director General Mikael Sjöberg is very concerned about the development. The unemployment rate for natives is 4.8 per cent and that for foreign born 21.8 per cent. There is a difference of 17 percentage points. If we look at women born abroad, the numbers are disastrous. I know that my colleague Niklas Wykman will be discussing more tonight. Director General Mikael Sjöberg is clear: this is unreasonable. It creates social divides that are almost impossible to bridge. In the same interview, Mikael Sjöberg continues: There is simply a risk that some families, some people, will hit the ceiling of SEK 25 000 and therefore do not demand the services as much as they would if the ceiling were 50 000 SEK. Not least, rehabilitation is important for people far from the labour market. He continues: We have to work with various types of proposals that create jobs that suit people a little further away from the labour market. According to our assessment, many RUT services of such a kind are suitable for this group. I hear that the Minister for Finance makes the same assessment as the Director General of the Employment Service – that RUT jobs help create jobs for people with a weak connection to the labour market. Still, she is not prepared to restore the ceiling for the deduction. Is the legitimacy of the tax system more important than the creation of social divides that are almost impossible to overcome? Is it a risk that Magdalena Andersson is prepared to take?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-674	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance and I obviously have different views on a lot of things and, among other things, that I should have received answers to my questions in the past. It is also quite easy to check in different protocols. The measurements carried out by the Swedish Tax Agency show that, thanks to the RUT and ROT reforms, the Swedish people have greater confidence in the tax system and feel less like tax fraud. The legitimacy of the tax system has been strengthened during the year of the Alliance. It is therefore interesting that the Minister for Finance's response links the legitimacy of the tax system with the experience of fair tax policy. Does not increased trust and less cheating mean precisely that the legitimacy of the tax system is increasing and that it is perceived as fairer? So it is obviously not according to S and MP, because the changes that S and MP have made with precision just impair the legitimacy of the tax system. I am therefore curious as to what the Minister of Finance means by fair tax policy. How is tax policy perceived as fair? Justice is also something everyone wants. It is one of the main tasks of the tax system to redistribute revenue. There is talk of both vertical and horizontal justice. Regarding specifically the RUT deductions: What has been or has been perceived as unfair with them? Is it that not everyone can take advantage of them? That is the case with many products and services. There must have been something so dramatic about the RUT deductions that S and MP risk the good effects in order to tackle these injustices, and also in such a politically unclear way. My colleague Helena Bouveng has talked about both companies and jobs with low thresholds. I therefore wonder: how does the Minister for Finance think that the RUT deductions have been seen as unfair? Is it fairer for those who are now at risk of losing their job?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-680	Madam President, I would like The average RUT user makes a RUT deduction of 5 000 SEK per month. The assessment I make is that the legitimacy of the tax system would increase if the RUT deduction were directed more towards ordinary families with children and ordinary households. Here we make different assessments. It is interesting that Helena Bouveng is interested in social divides. One thing I find worrying is the increased gaps that are emerging in Sweden, where the previous bourgeois government, with great precision, put an enormous amount of its scope for reform on measures that just increased the gaps in society and also used a great deal of money that was not available as a reform space to lower taxes in a way that made public finances not in a sustainable state when we took over. What is at risk of widening the gap is, after all, undermining the long-term financing of our common welfare, because we know that the common welfare as such is very redistributive. The government's assessment is that the change made by the RUT deduction will have very little effect. If you think that the changed ceiling in the RUT deduction will be crucial for foreign women's access to the labour market, then I do not share Helena Bouveng's assessment. On the other hand, the government has taken very strong measures to support people who are far removed from the labour market to enter the labour market. We have upgraded labour market policy. We are carrying out a major knowledge transfer via komvux, vocational adult and labour market training in order for people to be able to receive the training needed to get into a job. In addition, we have extensive programmes regarding the possibility of receiving subsidised employment and additional services in welfare. I think it is important that we work extremely actively with people who are a little further away from the labour market also having the opportunity to enter.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-684	Madam President, I would like If the Minister for Finance really were to worry about gaps between people, perhaps the Minister for Finance should listen a little more to the Director-General of the Public Employment Service. At least he has the realization that the biggest gap is between the people who have a job and those who do not have a job. I thought tonight would be in the sign of the quote. I first take a quote from Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson in an interpellation debate on 2 February 2016. She says, "The government estimates that the number of jobs with lower qualification requirements needs to be higher. ..................................................... I will continue with a quote from the Minister of Finance himself in Dagens Nyheter on 29 December 2015. Then Magdalena Andersson writes like this: and if you have any good ideas, I am prepared to listen. For me, what is cost-effective is more important than ideological lock-ups. ..................................................... I will conclude with the Prime Minister myself, who says in this year's first Question Time: He also says, "I'm doing what's necessary for people to get to work." ..................................................... These are quotes from red-green, prominent government representatives whose most important election promise was to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. My simple question to the Minister for Finance is therefore: is there any of these statements that do not fit in more than well with the jobs that have emerged and could emerge in the RUT sector?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-690	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Finance is right: The gaps have increased in Sweden, and that is a real challenge. But it has actually happened in the last 15 years and mainly in the years before 2006, that is, under Social Democratic rule, not alliance rule. The RUT and ROT deductions have strengthened the legitimacy of the Swedish tax system. For ideological reasons, the S-MP government risks impairing confidence in the tax system through the changes made to the deductions. The Social Democrats and the Green Party refer to experiences of justice but without accounting and accounting for what they really mean. The fact that jobs are at risk at the same time – in addition, jobs with low thresholds that we really need even more of in Sweden – is bad. Those who are far from the labour market are punished by the policies of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. We currently have a very weak government, and the deterioration of the RUT reform clearly shows why this is the case. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-693	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that the biggest difference is between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs. That is precisely why the government has invested so much in more people getting into work, not least through a more active labour market policy, with clear support for people who are far from the labour market to have the opportunity to enter, and by having an active education policy, so that you can get the education needed to take a job, but also by extending RUT.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-694	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me what reforms of tax and benefit systems the government wants to implement in order to increase employment and reduce the dependency of women on benefits. Since the government took office, total employment has increased by 1.5 per cent and unemployment has decreased by 0.8 percentage points. Women's employment has increased by 1.7 per cent and women's unemployment has fallen by 0.6 percentage points. Despite this favourable trend, unemployment remains high, while there are many companies that want to employ. Many unemployed people lack the skills needed in the labour market. The government is therefore implementing a series of measures in the labour market and education area to ensure that more people are able to get to work. More unemployed people now have the opportunity to acquire the necessary training to take up the jobs that are emerging. In order to speed up the establishment of newcomers, fast track is being created so that more people can quickly gain a firm place in the labour market and find a job that corresponds to their skills. In addition, the Government is carrying out the necessary investments in infrastructure and the largest housing policy investment in 20 years. It creates jobs and allows people to move and commute where the jobs are. Particularly important for women's employment is that the government also implements reforms to increase staffing in the care of the elderly and to improve the availability of childcare on inconvenient working hours. Efforts to improve the quality and accessibility of welfare increase the opportunities for women in particular to work more. Women often take greater responsibility for caring for relatives, children and the elderly, and many women go down in working hours to do so. But no one should have to go down in working hours because welfare is not up to the mark. A more balanced distribution of unpaid domestic and care work is crucial to achieving an equal working life. The unequal distribution of parental leave contributes to the unequal distribution of work at home and has a direct impact on women's income and opportunities in working life. The government has therefore introduced a third reserved month for each parent in the parental allowance. Further steps towards equal parenthood need to be taken. The Government has therefore set up an investigation to review the entire parental insurance in order to achieve that goal. In addition, the government has abolished the possibility for municipalities to grant custody allowances. The care allowance made it difficult for women in particular to enter the labour market.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-700	Madam President, I would like I share the view of the Minister of Finance that the abolition of the custody allowance and the changes in parental insurance at the margin will level out the conditions between men and women. But the impact of this is likely to be relatively small. After all, the Minister of Finance is threatening to move forward with more extensive changes in parental insurance. I'm sure it's a bitter medicine for a lot of people out there who want to make these kind of decisions themselves. It is a fight that we have to leave to the Minister for Finance to bring the Swedish people, what it will look like in the future. What is pleasing is that the Minister of Finance regularly pays tribute to the Alliance's economic policy. First, the policy of the Alliance led to an increase in employment and then to an international response to the economic crisis and thus managed to continue with reforms which then laid the foundations for the strong recession in which the economy has found itself. Even a year after we left the Government Office, our economic policy continued to operate. As Magdalena Andersson describes, 2015 – a year with an alliance budget – was a strong year for the Swedish economy, a strong year for the Swedish labour market, a strong year for Swedish employment. We are very pleased that the Minister for Finance is paying clear attention to this. Instead, the Minister of Finance and the current government will be evaluated for the years in which their policies applied – 2016, 2017 and perhaps even 2018. Then we see, for example, that the European Commission in its winter forecast tracks that the Swedish economy will now move towards increased public finance deficits. Although the output gap is closed, i.e. the economy reaches its potential, the European Commission estimates that Magdalena Andersson and the government are running Sweden with large and extensive deficits. In good times when the output gap is closed, the government will restore public finances. On the contrary, we are now seeing the government widening its deficits according to the European Commission and eroding the public economy. Added to this is a great concern about macro-economic stability, about financial stability, about developments in the housing market and about the development of indebtedness, where the government seems to be more interested in arguing with each other in the media than in taking measures so that Swedish households can feel safe. All of this is very important when discussing gender equality in the labour market. The Swedish experience is clear, namely that if you fail to meet public finances, you will not be able to achieve equality in the labour market. We saw this during the 1990s crisis, when the Social Democratic Government had for a long time lost control of public finances. The Swedish economy was in very bad condition, we had no shelters and we were in a situation that we might be on our way back to right now. When the crisis came, half a million people lost their jobs. Women's employment was severely depressed, and it took 15 to 20 years for women's employment rates to recover from the crisis. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore essential to manage public finances in order to cope with women's employment and participation in the labour force. We now have a government that has lost control, or at least is losing control, of public finances. Excretion is growing and public finances are growing despite the economy's success. That is very worrying. Mr President, I would like to This also makes it difficult to address the two main challenges that exist for gender equality in the Swedish labour market. One concerns foreign-born women and women with low levels of education, where the employment rate is very low. The second is that high-performance women do not achieve the same success in Sweden as in other countries. This has not been addressed by the Minister for Finance in his reply.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-711	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Niklas Wykman that, from the day we entered the Government Office, the government changed the governance of the Employment Service and runs a social democratic and environmental partisan labour market policy. I would also like to remind Niklas Wykman that we tabled an amending budget in spring 2015 which was implemented in 2015 and which brought about major and important changes, not least in the area of labour market policy. In addition, in the budget submitted by the government, we put forward a policy of breaking the repeated efforts of the previous bourgeois government on major and unfunded tax cuts which each year worsened public finances. The truth is that when Niklas Wykman left the Ministry of Finance, we had left a long-term sustainable path for public finances and were about 80 billion from the surplus target that the Moderates in their rhetoric say they want to stick to. However, every time they have been in government, they have failed in practice to keep public finances in order. I share Niklas Wykman's view that it is important to ensure both that women who are far from the labour market have the opportunity to participate in the labour market and that women who are strong in the labour market have the opportunity to make a career and develop at work. In both these areas, the government has taken important steps. In the case of women who are far from the labour market and who often have low levels of education, as Niklas Wykman points out, we are undertaking a new great leap in knowledge that many of these women will have the opportunity to participate in in order to complement their education so that they can get a job. In addition, we make special investments in extra services in welfare that could be an opportunity for women to enter the labour market, in addition to the employment support that was also available at the time that Niklas Wykman worked in the Government Office. Of course, the distribution of parental insurance is important for women in their careers. The unequal distribution of parental insurance affects all women, regardless of how parental insurance is taken out. That is why I think it is extremely good that the government has gone forward with another father month. Of course, it will have an impact on all women in the labour market who are at the age of being able to have children. In addition, the fact that we removed the custody allowance is a great success for women in the labour market.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-717	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Minister for Finance will find it difficult to sell to the Swedish people that it was the policy of the current Red Green Government that applied in 2015. If the government and Magdalena Andersson felt that they got their policy through in 2015, they would probably not have threatened with new elections and thrown Sweden into an almost chaos-like process. The government probably felt, the hand on the heart, that there was no control over politics. The Swedish people can be happy for this, which gained strong economic growth and also good development in the labour market thanks to the Alliance's budget. What the Minister of Finance says about public finances after the alliance years is simply not true. The Council of Finance Ministers, which has the task of examining the government's economic policy, is also very clear about this. Never before, before this government took office and Magdalena Andersson took the chance to implement large and unfunded grant increases, the Financial Policy Council had said that the government violated the budgetary rules that exist. But this debate, Mr President, is about equal opportunities in the labour market. The Minister for Finance is very pleased in his answers with how it looks in Sweden. She is pleased with the development in Sweden. I guess that's the way it is. But the question is whether the Minister for Finance sees the major, deep and structural problems that exist in Sweden. About half of the women born abroad in Sweden do not work at all. Less than half of those born outside Europe have employment in Sweden. If you look at women with low education, not even a third of them are employed. Sweden thus has a very large employment problem and a very large job challenge for women born in other countries and for women with low education. Here, the Minister of Finance is trying to comfort with the removal of the custody allowance and the quota of parental insurance. It is a very poor consolation for the half of women who are completely unemployed. On the contrary, Lars Calmfors and the recent salary inquiry point out that the measures taken by the Alliance government with new start-ups, with RUT deductions – which the Minister for Finance halves – and with job tax deductions are important to maintain, continue and develop in order for more people in this group to enter the labour market and have a chance of self-sufficiency. However, the poor performance of women with a weak position in the labour market is not the only challenge to which the government is turning a blind eye. If you look at women in leading positions, you can see that Sweden is far behind the EU average, that is, far behind countries that we often consider to be much better than gender equality. However, women in leading positions are not doing as well in Sweden as in the average of EU countries, and it is far worse than in many of the countries with which we want to compete. The Minister of Finance is onto something when she talks about the importance of distributing housework evenly, coping with the life puzzle and getting it together with the family. It is all the more surprising that it is against these women that the Minister of Finance precisely directs tax increases, tapered job tax deductions, worsening RUT deductions and that ho n simply turns the kiss electric pieces so to say upside down so that you do not see how the puzzle should be added together. It is not a policy of greater equality. I agree that the challenge is difficult, complex and complex. It is about those with the weakest position, and it is about people who we often think have a strong position. But in both cases Sweden fails, and in both cases the Minister of Finance prescribes the wrong medicine – higher thresholds into the labour market, higher taxes, higher marginal taxes and more difficult to reconcile. It is simply not a policy based on either a pragmatic view of society or the science or experience we have in Sweden. We need to rethink in order to succeed with gender equality in Sweden.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-726	Mr President, I would like to I share Niklas Wykman's view that the labour market situation is extremely challenging after eight years of the alliance government's failed employment policy, that unemployment is very worrying, not least among women born in other countries, and that this is something that we must work extremely actively with on the part of the government. What's good is that it's something we've been doing since the first day we stepped into the Government Office. We need to work on a more active labour market policy and education policy in terms of the ability of these women to enter the labour market. For these women, the abolition of parental leave is, of course, a step forward in terms of access to the labour market. I also share Niklas Wykman's view that it is a problem that there are too few women in the highest positions, not least in business. In order for women to be able to make a career there, I think that a third father's month is important, and that also applies to a more equal take-out of parental insurance. What is being discussed is also the quota of company boards. If I understand things correctly, however, the Moderates are against both further weighted father months – the third father month – and quotas for company boards. There are therefore two concrete proposals here which, as I understand it, Niklas Wykman does not support, but which would of course mean and mean a great deal to women's ability to make a career.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-730	Mr President, I would like to I find it distressing that we have a government that calls itself feminist and does not know the problem picture. If we take company boards as an example, we see that Sweden succeeds better than the EU average there. However, if we look at women in an operational position in the management of companies, we can see that we are doing worse there. Then the Minister for Finance's answer is that we should quota company boards. When it's not where Sweden performs worse – we perform worse when it comes to women in leading function conditions in the companies – it doesn't help to answer with quotas of company boards. When we talk about women who do not reach top positions to the same extent as in other countries, the Finance Minister answers that we should abolish the custody allowance and believes that this is the solution to the problem – while choosing to halve the RUT deduction, which allows these women to participate more in the labour market. Mr President, I would like to Apart from a finance minister who does not have a clear picture of the problem, my concern is about what will happen widely to women's employment, labour market participation and opportunities to succeed in the labour market in the future. This is particularly true during the great concern about public finances in Sweden is now in for the first time in a very long time. The Council of Finance Ministers says that the government is breaching the acquis communautaire, and the European Commission is tracking increased deficits despite the fact that the economy is improving. This is very worrying because we know that strong public finances and resilience in public finances are the basis for us to achieve more equality in the labour market in Sweden and to cope with women's participation and employment. Yet this is where the government is failing, creating uncertainty and leaving behind a very wide range of questions to answer. How to strengthen public finances? How can you be safe with the funding of welfare? How can we resist the crisis coming back, when the Minister for Housing and Finance are arguing in the media about financial stability? Sweden must be better able than that.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-735	Mr President, I would like to Yes, safe with public finances you can be when there are Social Democrats in the government. It shows history, and it shows reality here and now. The truth is, this government has halved the deficits Niklas Wykman left when he left the Ministry of Finance. This was the result of eight years of tax-merger policy, in which, in particular, the last two years resulted in Sweden's public finances on a path that is not compatible with the surplus target. This has also been pointed out by the Council of Finance Ministers. The reason we want to discuss quotas for company boards is that it is something that is possible to do. I think that quotas for senior management positions in other companies would be difficult to do. On the other hand, I am convinced that quotas for company boards will also influence the opportunities for women to gain leadership positions in the various companies, along with other measures to support women. I am convinced that, among other things, a third month of fatherhood is such an important instrument. However, I do not believe that the custody allowance has any significance for these women, which I think I was clear about in my previous contributions. I appreciate Niklas Wykman's commitment to women's opportunities to make a career and come to leading positions in Swedish business. That is an ambition I fully share, although we have different views on which methods are best. I also appreciate the fact that Niklas Wykman believes it is important for women who are far from the labour market to have the opportunity to enter. Even there we have similar ambitions but a little different methods. The policy that is now being brought forward from the bourgeois side, that is to say, a substantial reduction in the wages of people who are far from the labour market, I do not think is a good way forward. It would risk increasing the gaps, and it would destroy the Swedish model.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-739	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder has asked me what effects I feel the re-imposed special wage tax on older people will have on the labour market opportunities for older people. He has also asked what reforms I am prepared to take the initiative to ensure that we have a general extension of working life. I would like to begin by noting that working older people continue to enjoy tax advantages, both on the income tax side and on the employers' side. It is also misleading to assess the policy by looking at individual financing measures. A starting point for government policy is that everyone's skills should be taken into account as long as they want and can work. Evaluations, for example by IFAU, show that reductions in social security contributions are ineffective as job creation measures. As regards whether people choose to retire, statistics from SCB show that it is mainly the will or physical health that is lacking, not the employer's demand. In order to get more older people to work longer, the working environment needs to be improved and work-related ill-health prevented. Investing in higher quality and increased staffing in care for the elderly can lead to more people in care for the elderly and want to stay longer in work. In addition, the Government has carried out initiatives in areas such as the Swedish Work Environment Authority, regional safety representatives and work life research.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-742	Mr President, I would like to I am very grateful to the Minister for Finance for spending time and commitment on responding to my interpellation. Removing the special wage tax for the elderly was one of the first tax changes the alliance government made after the change of power in 2006. It reduced the cost of hiring people over 65 years of age and, at the same time, introduced an increased job tax credit for people over 65 years of age. These measures together made it both cheaper to keep or recruit older people and more profitable for the elderly themselves to work for some or a few more years. This policy orientation has also produced very good results. In 2006, 78,000 persons aged 65 to 74 were employed. In 2014, there were a total of 177 000 employed persons at that age. The employment rate increased from 10 to 15 per cent. It increased in this age group even during the financial crisis, when it decreased in other age groups. Many older people have also taken the opportunity to scale down and not work full-time until they retire. Over 70 per cent of employed persons aged 65 to 74 work part-time. The possibility of slowing down in the last few years of the labour market is appreciated by many older people. I noted that in his interpellation debate with Niklas Wykman, the Minister of Finance said that the situation on the labour market is extremely challenging. I agree with that description. That is why I am rather perplexed about why this measure is being taken, which is demonstrably having an impact on increased employment. In his reply, the Minister of Finance refers me to IFAU, and so I too would like to do so. IFAU has given a referral to the Ministry of Finance specifically on the proposal to remove the special payroll tax for the elderly. Among other things, this is what we write in the consultation paper: our overall assessment is that reduced tax on pensioners and special wage tax on older people can have negative incentive effects for older people to work. Of course, the costs of having a large proportion of employees over the age of 65 also increase. ..................................................... I believe that we can have the effect of a smaller number of older people remaining in work at a time when we need exactly the opposite, namely more people who remain in work. The number of hours worked must increase in order for us to cope with the welfare of the future. If we agree that we need more hours worked in the country in order to cope with welfare in the longer term, we should be able to agree on the fact that one of the opportunities we have to increase the number of hours worked is that older people remain in the labour market a little longer than will be a fact of what is now going to happen. Now the government is choosing to reintroduce the special wage tax for the elderly – this at a time when we need more people working, not less. Instead, the Christian Democrats and the other alliance parties propose that more older people should be encouraged to continue working a little longer – by bringing forward the increased job tax deduction by one year. This means that as a 64-year-old you will already be able to take part of it, which should have a positive income effect and make more people aware of the opportunity that actually exists to continue working slightly after the 65th anniversary. I think it would be very nice to hear whether the Minister for Finance has any comments on this.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-751	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that it is important that many older people remain in the labour market, that more people work until 65 but also that more people work after 65. Not least in a situation now that we are on the way to a shortage of labour in areas such as sociologists, teachers, nurses, construction workers and others, it is important that many people want to stay. Here it is important to point out that it is still very beneficial to work after 65 through the increased job tax deduction, but it is also still lower employer's contribution to hire someone who is older 65 than someone who is younger than 65. Previously, it was 16 percent cheaper to hire someone over 65. With the change proposed by the government, it will continue to be 11 per cent cheaper to hire someone over 65, so it will continue to be a considerable tax benefit for the employer and slightly less but still clearly tax advantaged also for the individual. Then it is not just taxes that affect if you work further up the age. The study to which I refer shows precisely that the reason why older people choose to quit is not the employer's demand. It is the employer's demand that could be affected by the change we are making, but that is not the reason why you stop working, but it is about your own health and your own will. There, my assessment is that it is important to continue working with opinion-driven efforts so that more people will want to stay in work, not least now that there is a shortage of teachers. But of course it's also about working with the work environment so that people can stay longer in working life. Among other things, the Government has developed a new strategy for health and safety at work with the clear aim of being able to have good health also in working life and thus also opportunities to work further up the age range.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-755	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what the Minister for Finance says, that is to say that we need to make older people stay a little longer in the labour market in the light of the current situation. We have a shortage of sociologists and teachers. We need all the people we can get who can help in one way or another and ensure that our welfare works later. I also agree that pensioners benefit from the taxes we have. However, in a situation where we need resources and the number of hours worked in Sweden needs to increase significantly in order to cope with the welfare we have ahead of us, I still think it is justified to have the favourable situation for pensioners. We need to stimulate that group of older people in different ways to work a little longer. The Minister of Finance points out that it is not only about pay but also about how you feel at work, that the working environment works, and I share that picture. I reported figures in my first post showing that the number of older people increased significantly in 2006 – 2014. The increasing figures show that employers feel that they have an opportunity to keep them a little longer. What worries me is that the measures that the government wants to implement are usually measures that raise taxes and reduce the incentive for the individual to continue working or for the entrepreneur to hire them. In this way, I think there may be a gap in finances, that is, fewer older people who remain in the labour market and fewer hours worked. This gives us a hole in the state's finances. I think we need to try to look at this as a whole and in the longer term. Then I think you have to try to make sure that the elderly stay one or two more years. A good idea to succeed is to try to keep the ideas that are good, and the bad ideas disappear in some way. You discussed earlier the RUT deduction, which is a success that has given many new jobs. It's something you shouldn't touch. This is something that I think should be best preserved in order to provide an incentive for the elderly to stay and an incentive for entrepreneurs to want to keep the elderly. I cannot see that this benefits Sweden in the long run without instead getting a hole in the state's finances that cannot be covered in any other way.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-762	Mr President, I would like to When we took over public finances after the turn of the government in 2014, they were in such a state that we had to finance important reforms. Unfortunately, the alliance government had reduced the tax, especially at the end of the second term of office, in such a way that we had a huge deficit in public finances, even though the economic cycle was on the way up. It was even the case that the deficits were the largest we have had since the budgetary adjustment in the 1990s, and they were significantly larger in 2014 than in the financial crisis itself. It is clear that this was very worrying and not a sustainable state of public finances. That is why we had to break the trend of ever-increasing deficits under the alliance government. We have subsequently broken that trend and are now pursuing a more responsible economic policy. As part of reducing deficits – we have halved the deficits now – we have had to finance our reforms in order to carry out important investments but also to take responsibility for public finances. We have made important investments, and we have had to finance them. At the same time, however, the investments that we have made have been able to benefit labour supply among the elderly. It is not least about the reinforcement we have done in the care of the elderly, because we know that many older people go down in working hours or stop working to care for a close relative. There, the quality of care for the elderly is extremely central. Therefore, our investment of 2 billion more for more employees in elderly care is something that enables older people to work longer. We have also strengthened the work environment with, among other things, more inspections. We have also invested more in working life research, which is also something that can benefit the participation of older people in the labour force.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-766	Mr President, I would like to I share the view of the Minister for Finance that we should, of course, be able to finance the investments we are making, and that is a good thing. You take out a bet that you are particularly proud of, the investment in staff reinforcement in elderly care. As such, I share the view that it is well-lawed and much-needed. The problem is that if you finance it by introducing special wage taxes for the elderly, it means that you get a hole in the state finances. I do not believe that it will produce the revenue that is thought to be due to the fact that the number of older workers will simply decrease. The staff effort that is being made is only under three years. What happens next? You have to have a longer perspective when you make staff investments and not pass the problem on to the municipalities at the other end, that is, they have to finance this after three years. In that case, it must be ensured that it is included in the state's finances in the future. The Minister for Finance and I do not really share the same view of the state's finances and who is responsible for what, but we can take that into account in another discussion. But I can see that we are still in some way turning for the same thing, i.e. that more hours worked are good for Sweden. How we get there we can always discuss.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-770	Mr President, I would like to I fully share Larry Söder's view that we need more hours worked in the labour market and more older people who stay longer in work. Older people can not only contribute more hours worked, but there is also a lot of experience and expertise among our elderly. This provides an opportunity for the entire workforce, not least for the younger generation, to learn from the skills and life experience of older people, both in working life and in private life. I hope that we politicians from different parties can join in forming opinion in order for more people to choose to stay in work. It is partly about the opportunities to remain and partly about the attitude that exists in society towards older people in the labour market. Here, as politicians, we have the opportunity to engage in public opinion both for people to want to work longer and for employers to want to keep and also to recruit older people. Around the world there are many examples of countries where employers also employ older people to an extent that we unfortunately do not really see in Sweden yet.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-773	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me what I and the government intend to do to incorporate the importance of transport infrastructure into the new industrialisation strategy. Sweden is a strong industrial nation where industry, including the industrial service companies, creates nearly 1 million jobs and accounts for most of our exports. But Swedish industry is also facing challenges. Digitalisation is driving the pace of industrial change, and it is particularly challenging for small businesses to keep up with rapid technological developments. Digitalisation and automation also offer new opportunities for profitable and sustainable production in Sweden. With the new industrialization strategy, the government wants to make Sweden more attractive for new investments and facilitate the transformation of Swedish industry required by the accelerated pace of technological development. The focus of the new industrialisation strategy is to strengthen the adaptability of companies. Four focus areas have been identified as crucial: digitalisation of industry, sustainable production, skills supply for industrial needs and attractive research and innovation environments for industrial development. The government is now developing an action plan with concrete measures in these four areas to strengthen the resilience and competitiveness of the industry. In addition to the measures that the government will take within the framework of the action plan, industry is naturally still dependent on good framework conditions and basic conditions in order to be able to create, grow and export based in Sweden. Laws, rules, taxes, energy supply and infrastructure are examples of basic conditions that can be used as indicators of a country's competitiveness. The government closely monitors developments in these areas and works with them in the context of processes other than the new industrialisation strategy. The transport infrastructure is one example. It is managed within the framework of the work on long-term infrastructure planning. The overall objective of transport policy is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. The government has already invested in increased road and rail maintenance. The industry's need for well-functioning freight transport and work commuting will be important challenges in the Government's future work on, among other things, the infrastructure bill that is planned to be submitted to the Riksdag this autumn.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-780	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. As the Minister mentions, Sweden is one of the richest countries in the world precisely because of the Swedish export industry and the successes we have had over the years. Trade with other countries is the basis of our entire prosperity. That is what makes us have well-functioning schools and health care and a comprehensive welfare system in our country. It is also the basis for many people seeking our part of the world. All that is good, and all that I and the Minister fully agree on. What the Minister forgets to mention when it comes to challenges for the Swedish export industry is Sweden's geographical location. Many challenges are similar for many countries, but Sweden has a geographical position on the outskirts of Europe. We are also an elongated and sparsely populated country, which means that infrastructure challenges are particularly important if we are to continue to reap success with Swedish companies. We also have many advantages. We have no corruption and extended welfare systems – yes, a lot of things that make us want to invest in our country. We also have relatively well-developed infrastructure, but with major challenges ahead of us. I put my interpellation to the Minister because I believe that these challenges should be a natural part of a new industrialisation strategy. Mr President, I would like to I think the Enterprise Minister's strategy is a good initiative. But, as I said, I lack the infrastructure as a natural part of this work. Working infrastructure is the foundation. Passenger transport is a very easy priority for freight transport in our country. People who do not get to work in the morning get angry and provoked, and there are many articles in the newspapers. Goods that do not arrive are written much less about, but it is just as serious for the Swedish economy. In addition, his ministerial colleagues in the government are destroying the good ambitions of the Minister for Economic Affairs. It does not matter if you have a minister who thinks this is important if you have other ministers working in exactly the opposite direction. The Minister for Infrastructure wants to introduce air tax, mileage tax and other things that will make it difficult for Swedish industry. The Minister for Energy wants to increase the impact tax, and we know exactly what it will lead to for Swedish industry. The Minister of Finance wants to raise taxes on labour, and the Secretary of State is making more enemies than friends when she goes around the world. All of this creates challenges for the Swedish export industry. Mr President, I would like to Does the Minister of Economic Affairs believe that his fellow ministers and their policies will contribute to what the Minister of Economic Affairs wants to achieve with his strategy?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-788	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we are having a debate on the new industrialisation strategy in this House. The government's new strategy Smart Industry is longed for by Swedish industry. By chance, it was presented in the Chamber on the day three years after the former Prime Minister of Davos declared that the Swedish industry was a basicly gone. In the industrial strategy, we note that industry is the backbone of the Swedish economy. 77 per cent of Swedish exports come from industry and service companies linked to industry. Nearly 1 million people go to work every day thanks to Swedish industry. It is therefore important that we can create a discussion in Sweden, preferably across political boundaries and parties, about how important Swedish industry is. Many other countries have worked with strategic initiatives and programmes linked to their industry. It is not just about Germany's 4.0 programme, which concerns the digitisation of German industry. The U.S. has been working on a program to develop its industry. Holland has worked with a programme similar to the Swedish one on the theme of smart industry. In the UK, only research and development, financial districts and some form of service sector were discussed, but realised that it was a wrong choice and that it had to retain competence for production, research and development in the country. Many of our competitor countries have therefore worked strategically with their industry. Now we are facing a fourth industrial revolution. Digitalisation changes the conditions for Swedish industry very much. This also applies globally. It is time that we had a strategy to help and make it easier for industry to meet the future and to speed up the pace of change. That is why we have developed this strategy. However, it cannot be seen in a vacuum. Edward Riedl is right about that. There are many factors that affect the industry's conditions. One issue that we have not yet discussed in this debate is energy policy. In Sweden, we do not have a long-term energy agreement across block borders, which creates enormous uncertainty for the industry's ability to make long-term investments. It is also about the fact that the energy market has changed fundamentally in quite a few years. Energy prices are very low, which means that the whole market logic has changed in the energy market. These issues must be addressed by Swedish politics, and therefore the Prime Minister has appointed an Energy Commission that deals with this issue and is led by Ibrahim Baylan. If I were to ask the representatives of Swedish industry what issue we in the political parties in this House have to deal with and agree on, their first response would be energy policy, because it is so important for the long-term development of industry in that country. I'm not saying that energy policy is unimportant – it's extremely important for Swedish industry – but should I parallel run it in this strategy for smart industry? No, we have a clear process of how we deal with energy policy together with the parties in this House. Similarly, we have dealt with infrastructure policy in planning periods for a long number of years. The government and I have not understood that there is any interest from this House in us dealing with infrastructure issues in any other way than through long-term strategic planning of infrastructure projects to create long-term prospects. That is why we have not chosen to break the issue out and put it in this project alone, but it is there. These will be important decisions, which I can come back to later. In an elongated country like Sweden, the infrastructure obviously plays a role in keeping the country and our infrastructure together so that we can have contact with the rest of the world.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-799	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with what the Minister says – that we cannot, of course, package everything into all strategies. It would be completely unmanageable. But if you talk about how to have a new industrialization in Sweden, I can think that it is reasonable to mention the infrastructure, which is part of what Swedish industry has as an extra big challenge compared to its competitors, not least in Europe. It would have been good if it had been mentioned, although we fully agree that the infrastructure should not be managed in that order. It should have been mentioned. Then I would just like to say: yes, I mentioned energy policy, what the Minister for Economic Affairs' colleagues in the Government do and that the Minister for Economic Affairs has a rather positive approach in relation to Swedish industry, while the Minister for Infrastructure wants to introduce air and kilometre taxes and the Minister for Energy wants to introduce an impact tax. There we are again. I agree that we should of course have a long-term agreement in Sweden on how to secure the export industry's need for cheap, safe and non-climate energy. There nuclear power is basically what we should then agree on. But we can see that the government is doing exactly the opposite, that is, pursuing a policy that will make nuclear power impossible in this country. Even trade unions related to the Social Democracy have expressed exactly the same form of criticism. The problem is that the other ministers in the government are doing exactly the opposite of what the Minister for Economic Affairs wants to do, that is, laying hookbones for Swedish industry. That's what I find boring. The new industrialisation strategy is welcome, but it lacks important components. It also lacks support among other ministerial colleagues of the Minister for Economic Affairs. That's the problem. What would have been good about mentioning the infrastructure in the strategy is that perhaps once and for all we could have highlighted the value of freight. As I mentioned in my previous speech, it is often the case in the debate that when passenger traffic does not work, there are a lot of headlines because many people are affected. It gets very close that way. However, it is at least as serious when goods do not arrive, because it puts jobs in danger in our country. That is why the strategy should have included this kind of perspective. I think it's a bit of a pity.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-807	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Smart Industry is responding so positively and that even the Moderates think it is good that we are working on a strategy for industry. I note that we mention infrastructure on s. 25 of the strategy because it is an important prerequisite for the development of industry. I fully share the view that this is a basic condition that must be in place. In the government, we have chosen not to wait to act on infrastructure. We've spent extra money on maintenance. We have exchanged general maintenance with SEK 1.2 billion per year because we see that we have been underinvesting for a long time in Sweden. This applies to both passenger transport and freight transport, which suffers from poor maintenance. We have also chosen to spend SEK 400 million between 2016 and 2019 on increased road maintenance for bearing capacity, frost securing and coating, which affects not least those roads around Sweden that are of great importance for, for example, the forest industry's ability to act. In addition, during the same time period we spend SEK 400 million on increased railway maintenance in rural areas. The risk is that they will not otherwise be allowed to take part in the level increase of SEK 1.2 billion that we have delivered. Infrastructure is definitely a priority area that the government is looking at because we have underinvested in infrastructure. The previous government chose to reduce taxes rather than invest in infrastructure in the way it had to do. There was a former Minister of Finance who said that we have overinvested in rail in Sweden. Today it feels like a statement that is quite far from both reality and the picture we have of the situation in the Swedish rail system. I note that there are infrastructure projects that are extremely important for northern Sweden and that have been implemented in the past. Bot niabanan is one such example. We are very proud that we belonged to a government that pushed it through despite some resistance. We have now said that we are going to move on and start with Norrbot niabanan, hopefully during this term of office. It was hardly that moderate ministers took the term Norrbot niabanan into their mouths during the last parliamentary term. In the government, we have a different perspective from the previous government in terms of the need for rail investment, but also in terms of the investments that have an incredible impact on the development of freight transport over time. As far as the impact tax is concerned, we may not have to polemize it too much. The most important thing now is to create some kind of consensus that it is important to create a cross-block agreement on energy policy. The Minister for Energy has not said or proposed that we introduce new taxes on effects in Sweden at a higher level. Rather, it has been very clear that with the changing market conditions, the impact tax is one of the issues that must be discussed within the framework of the Energy Commission. Before the Moderates get too excited about this issue, it can be said that the previous government increased the tax on impact more than the current government. If you want to discuss the responsibility for having ended up in the situation we are in today, I think you have to look yourself in the mirror and think a little bit about whether all the decisions led to the planned development. The most important thing to focus on now and which the industry expects from us is that the Swedish parliamentary system manages to agree on how to deal with the short-term energy policy challenges and, above all, put a playing field for a long-term development where we have both an electricity surplus and enough energy at competitive prices but also implement the necessary transformation of the energy system in a sustainable direction that both Sweden and the world will have to do.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-820	Mr President, I would like to It is often referred to the former Minister of Finance Anders Borg and his statement on the railways. It can be noted that in the years that Anders Borg was Minister of Finance more than doubled the maintenance of the Swedish railway. It is good that the government continues to provide additional resources to overcome the maintenance problems we have, which is an old debt for which both blue and red governments are unfortunately responsible. That's good. Unfortunately, the kind of resource reinforcements that the government is now in do at the cost of raising fuel taxes. These are increased taxes on petrol and diesel, and we want to introduce mileage taxes. It is part of the financing of the maintenance that is talked about all the time. All this makes it difficult for the Swedish export industry, especially the base industry up in Norrland, from which I come. I'm very happy that the Minister for Economic Affairs is taking up Norrbottniabanan. It is one of my favorite subjects, so let us talk about it in this debate as well. It's great if we get started and if the government makes money available. No one's gonna be happier than me. Perhaps I could invite the Minister for Economic Affairs to a small piece of cake at the appropriate time if this were to happen. There have been many different messages from various ministers in the government. Again, a government should speak with one voice, but it is spoken with a great many voices. One day the Norrbottnia Line will start to be built at once. The next day it will not begin to be built during this term of office. Now it will hopefully start to be built, but there are a lot of different messages. We're talking about the same issue and the same government. That's a lot of news, but as I said, I'll be very happy if the Norrbottnia Line starts to be built. Then I'll buy you a little cake. But let us wait until that happens. I haven't seen any money yet. I have seen fair promises and good ambitions, but so far the government has not committed any money to this.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-826	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we agree that S mart industry is needed as a strategy for Sweden. It is extremely important for our economy, for our export industry and for the financing of welfare. We've lost a little tempo. Many other countries have had strategies to support and develop their industry in collaboration. Sweden came a little behind, but we have good conditions for success. Infrastructure is definitely an important issue for industry. I will continue to work on this, both with the maintenance issues in the government and with the issue of Norrbotniabanan. I can only say that it is a Social Democratic-led government that will again make the major investments in Norrland. It is not moderate governments that have done so. You have never done so, and you will not, because you have a completely different priority. The difference between this government and the previous one is that we are talking about implementing it and that we are already starting this term of office. That is our objective. We're gonna make it. The difference with the previous government is that you wouldn't do it. It wasn't a priority. You never got through it for Anders Borg, because all the money would go somewhere else. Then the development of industry is not taken seriously. This does not take northern Sweden's development seriously. That's the difference between this government and the former government.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-829	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me what concrete tools I propose as a result of the discussion at the round table, what goals I am prepared to set in terms of combating piracy and what the further process of my dealing with copyright violations in the creative industry looks like. The Round Table began on 5 November last year. A second meeting was held on 3 February, and the agenda included the specific objective we should have for further work and how we should move forward in concrete terms. First of all, if we start with the objective, I would like to point out that this is an objective for the work of the Round Table. It is crucial that as many actors as possible support the objectives set by the group. The fact that there is support for the objectives of the whole copyright value chain, i.e. authors, producers, distributors, advertisers, etc., is, I believe, crucial for achieving concrete results. It is not, therefore, my objective or that of the government that is now being discussed. I presented a draft objective for the work of the Round Table at the last meeting, and on this basis we will now come up with a final text together. In order to improve the efficiency and speed up the work on making proposals for concrete measures for the group, a smaller working group consisting of members from the round table was set up at the previous meeting. The timetable for work is very ambitious. The first meeting of the working group will be held before 1 March and the final result is planned to be completed by 1 June.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-835	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is probably the case that I and the Minister generally agree that it is important to combat piracy. I'm happy about that. I am also pleased with the round tables and that they have started. I think it is a good initiative, but I am afraid it is inadequate. We have debated before, me and the Minister, and I have suggested that I believe that legislation may also be needed. I think that a number of different proposals should be put forward – I do not need to go into them again today. Now the government chooses to put all the eggs in a basket. It is in the round table discussion basket to solve the whole question of piracy, which is quite extensive in Sweden. It is, of course, very important that the round tables have the intended effect. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to be a little clearer about the future of the process. I have a few supplementary questions. There are quite a few supplementary questions, and I think I will start with them and graze them off and we will see how far we get during the debate round. My first question is: is there a formalised mandate to this smaller working group, and what does it look like? I also wonder: will the Minister himself be part of this smaller working group? If not– I understand that this is not the case – will there be any reconciliation between the Minister and the working group during the work? I understand that a chairman is appointed for the working group. I think it was communicated during the day by the government. I wonder if she is in any way a government party to the task force. Does she have any instructions from the minister, and does she act as the minister's party to the task force? Or does she have a general role in the task force? I understand – and the Minister also wrote this in her written reply – that she has put forward a proposal for a work objective. I simply wonder: what is the proposal? What proposal is presented? The last question I ask in this debate is also related to the objective. I did not understand – and it is not quite clear to me – whether the objective that will eventually be achieved is the objective of the Round Table and whether the Government, too, intends to support it. Is that an objective negotiated up to where the Minister is also prepared to invest power and energy? There will be prestige and perhaps also a little risk when setting goals. Is the Minister prepared to do so, or is this an objective that should apply only to the round table? I will stay there for so long, and I am sure I will come back with some other questions a little later.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-843	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jörgen Warborn, for the question and for all the questions now added! Let's see how far we get. I would like to take this as a starting point in taking the risk. To be a politician, to want something and to want change is to take the risk. Freshly daring is actually half won; there is much truth behind that expression. I think it is incredibly important that we politicians are courageous and also dare to expose ourselves to conditions that we cannot completely decide how they should fall out when we do politics. We need to have ideas for a future. This applies not least when it comes to illegal downloading. You started by saying that the illegal download is a pretty big problem. It is a major problem for many parts of the cultural and creative industries. Now to your questions – we'll see how far we can get. This has been a long process. A brief summary: we have the whole food chain around the table. Before we met a second time in the big round table I called around to all the participants. I stressed the importance of and emphasised the purpose of the group's work: that we should see what we can do alongside the legislation. It also goes hand in hand with the Commission's mission to us and to all the Member States. What we're gonna do is follow the money. It's a mission we have. All stakeholders, coming from the whole food chain, agreed to be seen and to continue the talks with this very objective – to see what we can do alongside legislation one. Everyone has been well aware of that when we have met. At the meeting we had a discussion. We then repeated what the Commission had come up relatively close to our meeting. We discussed the conditions once again, and I proposed an objective for the group's work. This was asked by the Member of Parliament. It was very simple. The proposal was as follows: The aim of the group's work is to strengthen the conditions for cultural and creative industries and make it more difficult for those who make money from the illegal distribution of films, music or books. In a first step, the use of illegal services should be halved by 20XX, and in the long term legal content services should be the obvious choice in all age groups. This was a draft to see how the proposal came out in the large working group. It fell out very well. All representatives around the table shared the view that this was an interesting and well-formulated proposal for objectives. But we also agreed that we should appoint a smaller working group – a committee, one might say, an AU – to work on, because the large group is very large. It's kind of hard to handle when you're running questions and you're going to get somewhere fast if you're too many around the table. Therefore, the large group appointed representatives for its work. There are a handful of people who will represent the whole group, even if they come from different parts of the industry. I also took on the responsibility of appointing a chairman. We announced today, as the honourable Member says, that it is Helena Dyrssen who has been appointed. She has good experience and is highly qualified. She has previously been active in party politics but is today Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency. Helena Dyrssen is not working on behalf of the government. She is appointed solely on the basis of her experience and competence. She will lead the group's work, and it will deliver its results to me.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-851	Mr President, I would like to I interpret the Minister's reply as saying that the Government will support the objective that is eventually being pursued. That was not explicitly said by the Minister in his reply, but it probably cannot be interpreted in any other way. If I have interpreted it incorrectly, it would be good if I were corrected on that point. I think that the wording of the proposed target wording which the Minister himself has given to the group sounds good. One breaking point is, of course, to set a deadline for this, and we can certainly come back to that. Another breaking point is what is included in the illegal use of these services. We have both downloading and streaming, and I have argued in the past to clarify what applies. It is clear that downloading from an illegal source is illegal, but it is uncertain whether streaming from an illegal source is illegal or legal. It will be an important question when you measure this eventually, and so I wonder: What is the Minister's and the government's view on it? Is it illegal to stream from an illegal source today or not? In the long run, my question is: will it be included in the aim of halving the piracyn? Is streaming part of the piracyn according to the minister? I did not realize whether there was a specific task for the task force. It would be good to hear that, too. Furthermore, if we have time, what is the Minister expecting for the final outcome of this task force? How will it be handled if ideas and proposals that affect the state budget in any way come forward? Then I wonder whether these round tables will continue after 1 June. I understand that the smaller working group will have final delivery then, but will the work continue thereafter? I do not think that we have broken all the issues surrounding piracy as early as 1 June this year, but it will require follow-up work. What will it look like? How does the Minister view whether any authority over which the government is in control would make an independent measurement to follow the issue? Earlier debates have shown that both I and the Minister are leaning on the Mediavision measurement that came in May and show that these problems are quite extensive. The question then is whether it would be good to have an independent measurement or not. I have even more questions, but I do not think it is possible to answer them now, so I thank you for so long.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-859	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jörgen Warborn, for all the questions! We will be able to stand here many times, because I will not be able to answer all the questions now, because they are going a bit in different directions, even if we take our starting point on what was the basic issue. I really want to be able to answer some of the questions. The Group's proposals, which the Chairman will first present to the large working group so that it can support them, are passed on to me, and that is not automatically the government's proposal. It is my responsibility to process them and see if they are realistic, what they are. We do not know what the result will be. It is very important to stress that it is not automatically the government's proposal. These are proposals that are being made to me, and it will be my great responsibility to continue working on them. They will also be public in many ways and discussed widely, I hope. The task of the small working group is to return in the very near future to the larger round table with proposals for objectives for work – that is the first, because we have to set the goal – and then to work out concrete proposals for measures to meet the objective. So you should both define what the goal should be and then come up with proposals on how to achieve the goal. The work will begin immediately. The first meeting shall be held before 1 March and the group shall deliver its results before 1 June. It is therefore a relatively intensive and short period. I do not believe, like the honourable Member, that we have resolved the issue of piracy on 1 June. On the other hand, I expect concrete proposals for measures to achieve the objective that the group will hopefully present in the near future. Jörgen Warborn also asked several questions about indicators and independent measurement, for example. You also asked questions about streaming and how we define this. As far as the group's work is concerned, I do not want to see it happening. I expect it to be extremely competent and well-informed and to see what problems there are and how much illegal downloading is destroying for the industry. I expect well-founded proposals, possibly definitions and possible proposals for further work, what needs to happen in the future. I look forward to continuing to discuss and return to these issues. I think it is extremely important for the group to work on now, intensively and briefly. I have tremendous respect for the fact that the proposals that have been drawn up will be partly comprehensive but partly so concrete that they can be put into practice. If we look at what our neighbours have done with good results, we can see that, for example, the information campaign that has invested some resources in Denmark has actually produced results. It has not been going on for many years yet, and the work continues. The MP also asked about the impact on funding and the state budget. It depends entirely on what kind of proposal it is. It is therefore important that the proposals are for me to handle and then discuss and pass on in a larger circle of government.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-869	Mr President, I would like to I will not put any more questions on the list, but if there were any more to answer, the Minister will have the opportunity to do so in his last speech. Rather, I would like to make a few comments about the goal formulation. I am pleased that the Minister mentioned the other Nordic countries, because it has been shown that the average for the use of illegal services is 13% in those countries. 13 per cent of the population in the other Nordic countries thus use these illegal services, while in Sweden it is 32 per cent. So when formulating a target, it might be good to relate to 13% versus 32%. For me, there is no reason why Sweden should be worse than the other Nordic countries. I think we should have a brave case here. Perhaps 13% could eventually be brought down to. As far as time is concerned, it was 20 XX J ag thinks it's important, no matter what the time period, that you have pretty tight reconciliations so that you see something happening. You can cancel after, for example, six or twelve months. I am of the firm conviction – but I hope I am wrong – that legislation will also be required. That is another reason why I think it would be good to have close reconciliations so that you can see how things are going. If you don't bite what you've come up with, you might have to try something else. Then I think that it is the objective that is more important and that, if that is the case, other means can be put in place to achieve the objectives. Then it is important that streaming from illegal source is also measured, not just downloading. With those contributions, I thank you for the debate.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-876	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jörgen Warborn, for the dedication and important input! I also believe in frequent reconciliations. When you have ambitions and set goals, it is extremely important to follow them up closely to see what effect they have. I am not a friend of legislation for the sake of legislation. I believe much more in putting energy into changing values and ways of doing so. What is the point of having legislation that no one is complying with or that is poorly enforced, such as copyright? We have legislation today. But we need to do more with it in order for it to have the desired effect. We fully agree that the reality we live in needs to be changed in order for cultural workers and industries to receive the remuneration they are entitled to for their work. Work on this is now under way. We have a conversation, a wide round table. For the first time, the whole food chain sits around the same table. We have appointed a working group, an AU, to carry out this work. And we have an excellently qualified chairman of the group's work. I therefore have good hopes for both a clear objective and a good timetable for how to meet the objective. We also have proposals for concrete measures for what we need to do.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-880	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me if I and the government intend to look at bringing solutions into the investigation that do not look at collective agreements on a single-track basis, but actually look at the whole picture. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has also asked what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that all forms of companies will be able to tender for public procurement in the future, in order for the service to have a good content and to prevent social dumping. Laws together with collective agreements form the basis for the Swedish labour market model. Requirements for conditions under collective agreements are an important means of combating social dumping in public procurement. At the same time, it must of course be taken into account that there are suppliers who do not have collective agreements. In principle, the procurement rules do not require a supplier to have a specific form of company in order to participate in a procurement. All suppliers shall be given the opportunity to participate. In addition, the new procurement framework will provide for rules aimed specifically at facilitating the participation of SMEs in public procurement. Through the broad participation of suppliers and by requiring them to ensure fair working conditions for their employees, the services procured can be carried out with quality while avoiding social dumping.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-884	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It was much clearer than the answers I have received in the past when we have debated the issue of public procurement, including the concept of collective agreements. The Government says in its reply that it must of course be taken into account that there are suppliers who do not have collective agreements. That is what we usually discuss, which agreements should or should not apply. It has also been important for all suppliers to be given the opportunity to participate. I think that is a good thing. I'm going to look at the question from another direction. In fact, I see three points that would resolve the issue. It is a question of purchasing on the basis of function, of not accepting any bid that is abnormally far below price and of using key figures to look at what things cost. I take a perspective in the debate: human beings. I've been into it before. The Government talks about collective agreements and how it resolves matters. I believe that collective agreements do not solve what I want to access in a procurement procedure. We can have two different focusses on this. For example, we can think of a school to be cleaned, since it is the cleaning industry that is being discussed. Cleaning up is not equal to having a collective agreement or not. A clean classroom can be obtained by ordering a clean classroom. You can also order per stairway, i.e. you order from purity. There are municipalities and county councils that do. If you order a certain degree of dirtyness, which it will be if you do not have total cleaning, it means that the company that will deliver at a certain level will do so, regardless of whether they have collective agreements or not. So it's in the customer's hands. Trip service can also be an example. We want people who are going to travel to have a safe and secure journey. You're supposed to get help with your tools. The car should not drive too fast because it has little time. There should be no requirement for one minute to help an elderly person into a car, and so on. There are no collective agreements or collective agreements. This can only be accessed by making sure that demands are made in the right way at the ordering stage. That's my point. It is not possible to solve what you want by laying down contractual rules. It is also not certain that it will be better for the staff, if they also have a job where they have received an order from the public which in turn means that they will work in a stressful way at lower prices and so on. I therefore believe that we will not achieve what has to do with quality. Instead, we do this by setting the requirements from the client based on what they get to ride in a taxi or get cleaned up, i.e. students and staff. Through a good order you make sure that the quality is there. If you're going to have the quality, you have to know how much it costs. Then the price increases. And then you also have to pay what you're supposed to do for things. This will also solve the problem.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-894	Mr President, I would like to I think this is the fourth time that we have debated this issue. The Government has worked hard to produce legislation that makes it mandatory to impose conditions under Swedish collective agreements in connection with the procurement of services and works. The government does so because we see serious problems in the Swedish labour market. We see social dumping. We're seeing rough terms. We see that employees in public activities have unspeakable conditions. These are activities financed by our tax resources. At the end of last year, the Swedish Tax Agency carried out a special survey of the cleaning industry, as the interpeller mentions. In that control, extensive undeclared work and unworthy working conditions were revealed to those working in the industry. Mr President, I would like to I would like to quote an article from Sv eriges Radio on this very subject: 中 The fact that cheating is common in the cleaning industry is also confirmed by Emma Unevik, CEO of Stockholm's Cleaning System. If it is not black wages, it could be trafficking in human beings, extremely long hours of work or various types of subsidy fraud. All of this and more is described in the Swedish Tax Agency's report. "And with the help of all these inventive ideas, you dump the prices on the city. As a serious cleaning company, it's tough to resist all this cheating," says Emma Unevik. She believes that it is also public activities that drive cheating in the cleaning market, by always focusing on as low a price as possible. "I would almost dare to stand out my chin and say that public procurement is significantly worse than private procurement. As a serious company, we can say that you always go after the lowest price and that you hire companies that are at rogue levels. I think it's a disaster. ..................................................... This is a description of the reality of publicly funded activities. We are not talking about small problems on the margins, Mr President, but we are talking about a situation in which the public sector is doing social dumping in the cleaning industry, in the taxi industry. The question we should ask ourselves is: Should the Swedish state accept this, or should the Swedish state act and make it mandatory to comply with Swedish laws and collective agreements in connection with public contracts? The government has taken a stand, and we are not ashamed of it. In Sweden, Swedish salaries and conditions in accordance with our laws and collective agreements shall apply. The least that can be demanded of the public sector, Mr President, is that we make those demands when we act as consumers. It is an important part of the fight against social dumping. It is not enough rhetoric and wording in some documents, but clear and concrete requirements are needed to create order for the Swedish labour market.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-905	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that public sector purchases should be made at the lowest price. We are discussing the same thing, although we have different views. Ardalan Shekarabi talks about small problems in the margin. No, I really don't see it. I think it is a serious problem, but I do not see that the solution is the one that the Government is addressing. There are three proposals. You should procure functions so that you can see the whole picture and get the people who will perform the services. They do not function better on what is to be done by having collective agreements. Key figures should be used. The responsibility should lie with those who order, those whom Ardalan considers to be villains. It is the clients who should do right from the start, and you should not exclude different kinds of companies. One example is a cleaning company that works 20 percent of its working time for the public and then works 80 percent for a private company, such as a school or an IT company. How will companies find contracts in the market, insurance and everything else? According to Bruun's investigation, demands would be made on pay, holidays and working hours. Insurance and insurance pensions have now been added. There's a jungle out there. The longest ever opinion of the Swedish Law Council on 480 pages represents a complete cut of the proposal on public procurement, which is now being consulted. The proposal is being severely criticised. A thousand paragraphs are proposed. Will these provisions be easier and simpler? How will a small municipality cope with this? Where did the good deal go? Instead, the government would simplify and clarify, but this does not make it any easier. There will be a total stop in the machinery with all these legal clauses to be complied with. The Government itself is a lawyer and has said that simplification would be carried out. Now there is so much in the thousand paragraphs to be followed. I think you have to take this very seriously. As far as social considerations are concerned, I can take the taxi industry as an example. Why do you not split up the taxi industry and have several different suppliers? In Värmland, in particular, taxis have ceased to operate at local level because purchasers make large purchases at the lowest price. So what the public authorities are doing is wrong from the beginning – we agree on that. Ardalan Shekarabis solution is a collective agreement. My solution is to use key figures. You should take paid according to what it costs. You're supposed to procure the function. The classroom should be clean, and the travel service should work so that Kalle can hire it without being terrified. It is not solved by collective agreements. There is a bigger picture to take into account, and I ask if you are interested in looking at it and seeing the little man in that perspective. Then the second part is also solved by social dumping. The Government listed trafficking in human beings, subsidy fraud, etc., which has also been mentioned by the Swedish Tax Agency. It's already regulated. It is forbidden and shall be prosecuted. You don't have to put that back in the legislation.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-916	Mr President, I would like to The problem in the public sector is that it does not comply with the legislation. There has been a discussion on public procurement in food production in another area. We have tough demands on Swedish farmers when it comes to animal husbandry. These are good demands, but they are high compared to production in other countries. N is the public sector buys food, then they do not set those requirements. First, we demand from farmers that they produce meat with tough rules on animal husbandry. But when we act as consumers and buy meat ourselves, we do not make those demands. It is an example of a bizarre situation that exists in the public market. The regime that should apply and that should apply under the legislation is not complied with. Then we must ask ourselves: What can we do? In terms of working conditions for employees in activities that are publicly funded, there is one method, and that is to ensure in legislation that they comply with Swedish legal rules and collective agreements. The new EU directives that we implement require us to ensure that suppliers comply with the terms of legislation and national collective agreements. The question is: Why should we be ashamed of the Swedish labour market model? Why should we be ashamed that we have the order that we have where wages are determined in collective agreements? There's no reason to be ashamed. On the contrary, we have an opportunity here to tackle real problems for Swedish workers. The public sector has enormous power, not just over the cleaning industry. The public sector also has enormous power over travel services. About half of the consumption in the taxi industry comes from the public sector. Then we also know that we have the power to influence. Mr President, I would like to Last year we found that Stockholm County Council had an option. It was well aware that if you made demands on the right conditions for the passengers in the service, then another supplier would win. Should these conditions not be specified, the lowest price would also apply to employee relationships. The county council then made an active choice and did not make demands concerning the conditions for the employees. Directly, we were able to note that social dumping in the taxi industry continued due to a political position in Stockholm County Council. Then the legislator asks himself: Is that okay? Is it permitted according to the principles that we claim to stand up to give this opportunity to Stockholm County to choose between social dumping and fair conditions? Our answer is that it is not and should not be allowed. It should not be an option to use public resources to promote social dumping and reduce the conditions for those working in, inter alia, the taxi industry. Order and order must apply, and then legislation is required. Collective agreements are the method chosen by the parties on the Swedish labour market in terms of wages and other conditions. We do not have legislation here, and we should be proud of that. But then it is also necessary for the consumer to make active choices. This also applies to the public consumer.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-925	Mr President, I would like to I will come back to this with shame. I don't know who's ashamed and for what. You can have different views on solutions, but it's up to Ardalan Shekarabi if he wants to be ashamed. There are over 600 agreements with collective agreements. Many in the taxi industry are self-employed, and they do not want to be connected in any other way. They can drive taxis 30% for the public and 70% for the private. So you're going to regulate the whole thing? What's the deal? Who is threatening the Swedish model? Pay, holidays and working hours should be outside. Then it goes to insurance and occupational pensions. Again, what agreement should apply? If Luleå University is going to have an advertising campaign, you do not talk about collective agreements, but you solve it in another way. A law firm does some work for the public. Is their time to be regulated? They work maybe 14 hours a day, of which 20% for the public. We can keep looking at it this way – and that's probably the problem – instead of seeing what you want to buy and then doing it based on what it costs in a different way. We will certainly not even today agree on this way of looking at the problem. There are three ways to solve this instead of having a writing from the Law Council that is 418 pages and contains a thousand paragraphs to take into account. Firstly, it is a question of purchasing on a function; secondly, it is a question of consistency in rejecting tenders that are abnormally low; and thirdly, it is a question of using key figures that keep track of what it costs to buy things. That's how you do the good deal, as I see it. I would like the Government to comment on this in its last speech with the Law Council, what it intends to do about it and whether it intends to take it into account at all.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-933	Mr President, I would like to I thank the interpellant for the discussion. This is important. We need to work on simplifying and clarifying the regulatory framework, and that is exactly what we are doing. We will also take into account the views expressed in the opinion of the Legislative Council, but it does not concern the debate we are having today – that legislative referral has not yet been decided – but it concerns all the other rules in the area of public procurement. We all have interests in the world in simplifying and clarifying the regulatory framework. That is precisely why we also need clear regulations in this area, which relate to employees' conditions. At the moment, the regulatory framework does not exist, which means that all contracting authorities and municipalities, including small ones, must design models themselves, and that is being done. Many municipalities construct their own models that deal with the conditions for employees in contracting activities. The big municipalities can do that. They have the resources, legal professionals and the skills needed to design different types of requirements in connection with public procurement. However, this cannot be done by the smaller authorities and the municipalities, and we will also have a lack of clarity and clarity as to what applies in this area. That is why clear legislation is needed. But legislation is not enough. We will also need to deploy support resources from the Procurement Authority and provide clear guidelines and guidance on how to design these requirements, so that we do not get the problems described by the interpellier. These problems exist in today's system in the absence of rules. But with clear rules and with developed procurement support, which we now have in place through the Procurement Authority, we can provide the best possible conditions for contracting authorities and for all the serious suppliers who deliver services and goods to the public sector in a really good way. They should not be discriminated and treated negatively. D e must be given the right conditions for fair competition, and legislative changes are needed in this area as well.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-936	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me how the Government's efforts to improve care for people with chronic diseases improve for patients with psoriasis. It is important to develop health care for people with chronic diseases. In Sweden, nearly half of the population has at least one chronic disease, and 80 – 85 per cent of total healthcare costs can be linked to the care of chronic diseases. Psoriasis is one of the most common chronic diseases. There is much to suggest that the development of a growing proportion of people with chronic diseases can be broken. Many diseases can be prevented and treated. There are also great opportunities for better treatment outcomes if care meets patients based on their individual needs. In my question answer from December last year, to which Lotta Finstorp refers in her interpellation, I highlight the Government's efforts to promote better care for people with chronic diseases, including psoriasis. Within the framework of the initiative, a national strategy for preventing and treating chronic diseases has been developed, and incentives are allocated annually to various actions. The aim of the initiative is to create a care based on the latest knowledge of care, treatment and prevention, based on patients' needs and conditions, regardless of their chronic diseases. In 2015, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare carried out a preliminary study on the need for national knowledge support on chronic diseases. In the final report, the National Board of Health and Welfare highlights three important areas where new national guidelines should be developed. Psoriasis is one of these three areas. The Government has recently decided on SEK 150 million for various initiatives in 2016. Among other things, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with developing and disseminating national guidelines and other national knowledge support for more chronic diseases. The assignment means that the National Board of Health and Welfare will receive funds to develop national guidelines for the care of people with psoriasis. The task of the National Board of Health and Welfare also includes carrying out efforts to evaluate the health care of people with chronic diseases and to support the implementation of disease prevention methods. In addition, the National Board of Health and Welfare will allocate government grants to relevant organisations for interventions that contribute to better care for these patients. The actions should be linked to patient-related work and form models that can easily be translated into practical healthcare or contribute to developing patients' competence and ability to actively participate in healthcare and treatment. The Government has also entered into an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on measures for better care for people with chronic diseases. The agreement includes efforts to promote patient-centred working methods and follow-up of patient outcomes in primary care. In addition, the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, in close cooperation with the county councils, will promote the dissemination and application of national guidelines and clinical treatment recommendations for a large number of chronic diseases. Overall, the Government makes the assessment that these efforts contribute to the development of better care for people with various chronic diseases, including psoriasis.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-945	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I have chosen to focus this interpellation debate on psoriasis, as the National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with developing national knowledge support for psoriasis, among other things. It is one of the most common chronic diseases in Sweden, and it is between 250 000 and 300 000 people who live with psoriasis. Many are of working age, and for just over half of them the disease has started before the age of 25. A major problem for patients is that there are no individual care plans. You generalize and try the same for all patients. I will come back to that later with examples, including a story from a young girl about how her treatment was not specified according to her own needs but according to what it looked like in general. A recent report from the Psoriasis Association can read the results of a survey in which patients themselves have been given answers about their symptoms and symptoms. 42% suffer from joint problems, and 37% are overweight. So there are a variety of other symptoms and diagnoses in this system disease, as you might call it. What can help people who have this diagnosis to get back to work and study are, among other things, modern biological treatments. They're the ones who get the best results. But it often happens that county councils think they are too expensive. They are then directly related to traditional treatment, and you only look at crowns and crowns. Over time, however, the new forms of treatment show much faster improvements in patients, and given the costs of hospital and primary care visits that also have to be included in the cost of medicines, there will be much more economic efficiency, as there is no need to go to healthcare as often as if you have traditional medicines. Should it not be self-evident that everyone with psoriasis, for example, has the same opportunity for effective treatment and individual care plans? And should not the purpose of treatment be for every person to be able to take an active part in society on the basis of his/her conditions by, for example, studying or working? These are a few of the issues that I would like the Minister to take forward in the debate. The most important thing of all that exists beyond the figures and social expenditure is human suffering. Many live completely isolated and become retired early when we need to get every single person to work. Depression also occurs. Of the respondents, 25 percent have reported that they suffer from depression. The quality of life is greatly affected by the disease. They don't want to show themselves out because it's visible on the skin and so on. This is a big question. Many young people suffer from the disease. They get very different help, not based on what symptoms they have in their disease, but on how the county council or region sees it based on economic aspects. In another study, 76 percent stated that they have not discussed the goal of treatment with their doctor. That is also the kind of thing I would like the Minister to comment on.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-952	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for the interpellation! I shall begin, as in my answer at the outset, by taking my starting point in the work on chronic diseases. I believe that we must realise that Swedish health care is facing a huge challenge that actually requires us to implement a cultural change in the entire health sector. I think that the overall challenge can be described in this way. The image of a large part of the public and perhaps of some who work in healthcare and certainly some health politicians is that the norm in Swedish healthcare is patients who have suffered from an infection, broken a leg or had an accident. They come to a hospital, get treatment, and hopefully walk away healthy. This has been the case for a very long time. But we know it won't do it anymore, and it definitely won't do it tomorrow. Today, 80% to 85% of healthcare resources go to patients suffering from chronic diseases. It is patients who may never leave the healthcare system healthy, but they may need a lifelong relationship with our healthcare systems. In addition, a patient who suffers from psoriasis, for example, may find that when it sees a doctor, it is the patient who knows best and most about the disease and not the doctor. The question we need to ask ourselves is: Is Swedish healthcare adapted to meet this type of patient group? Is Swedish healthcare adapted to take advantage of the knowledge and experience of a patient with psoriasis, for example? The answer to that question is no. Much too little is the health care system adapted to these. It is in the light of this that one should see the drive for improved care for people suffering from chronic diseases. Lotta Finstorp tells us that many patients suffering from psoriasis experience generalisation of the healthcare system. They get a fit-all solution no matter what individual symptoms they have of the disease. It is a description that also includes other patient groups suffering from chronic diseases. The key to this is to change health care in a direction where we can offer more patient-centred care. Patient-centred care involves designing processes and treatments based on the individual needs of each patient. However, greater use is also made of the knowledge and experience of patients themselves. In this way, care is created that makes a much greater contribution to creating values for individual patients that today's care may not be able to. We are also helping to create a healthcare system that will probably use its resources much more efficiently. In this way, we can both improve quality and help considerably more people and not least those suffering from psoriasis.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-962	Mr President, I would like to It is very good that the Minister takes up patient-centred care. Those of us who have been county councillors – Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson who is sitting in this Chamber have also been so – have been talking about patient-centred care for probably two decades. But the definition of it is very different. It has mostly become a concept that has been a bit inside or a bit trendy: Now we should have the patient in the center. There are such structures in health care that make it extremely difficult to really get it. I know we have a common desire to get it there. It is also true that the patient today often has more knowledge than the health care system has of its own disease. We have access to the internet and many databases that you can access. This, of course, also places new demands on health care. The chronicles are also present in other areas. Cancer diseases that used to be fatal today are chronic conditions only people receive their treatment regularly. There are many patients who testify that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is not so flexible that it can handle when the chronicles have to have their treatment once a month. They're either going to be on full-time sick leave or they're going to work full-time. The whole social security system must also be changed on the basis of new medical successes, advances and achievements. That I choose to lift up psoriasis as such a systemic disease is that there are many who get it at a young age and who become early pensioners instead of those with the right treatment, patient-focused treatment, can work based on their ability maybe a few hours a day in any case. They would then be in an inclusive society in a completely different way. Let me tell you about Alice. She had psoriasis when she was 10 years old. Her whole world changed from one day to another with school, leisure time and so on from being healthy to being sick. Nothing was normal anymore. Among other things, she had to finish her swimming career. The treatment and help she was offered was to lubricate herself with strong cortisone creams three hours a day. It was terribly unpleasant and very planning for a young person. No one took her illness seriously. Only after nine years was she offered biopharmaceutical treatment. Today she feels much better and can begin to live fully. Do all patients have to wait that long? They should not have to undergo exactly the same treatment steps 10-18 years because there are no treatment goals. There's the core of the matter. There must be individual treatment objectives for each patient. The diagnosis is a diagnosis, but each person is unique. Then you have to be able to screw the treatment targets and evaluate after three months. Has it been effective? Of course, there are doctors who work that way. But those patients are fortunate because they have come to such a good health care that provides patients with a patient-centred treatment. It is a huge system shift that needs to be based on the fact that we have 80 – 85 percent who become chronic of their diagnoses. Because there are so many who are chronic, the initiative that the government makes is very watered down on that many people. I would like a little comment from the Minister on how things look in the future. Will it work together and gather all the good forces to bring about the system shift that has to happen?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-972	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp mentions that the treatment often looks very similar regardless of the individual symptoms or needs of the patient. This is one of the major reasons why national guidelines are needed in this area. It's just like Lotta Finstorp says. In some doctors or in some parts of the healthcare system, you can receive excellent treatment. Often it is linked to the fact that there is knowledge about psoriasis in this case. There is knowledge about the latest research and the treatment methods available. There is thus also often a commitment to getting involved in patients suffering from psoriasis. If we are seriously to be able to create a more equal care, I believe that it goes through, among other things, spreading knowledge across the country and the entire healthcare sector. The national guidelines that are now being developed also, often with the strong involvement of patient groups, to get the patients' perspective early and not, as in the more traditional health care system, pretend that the patient is some kind of object that might come into place somewhere at the end of this type of process. The focus we are making on patients suffering from chronic diseases and improving health care is much about the dissemination of knowledge, raising awareness and making health care structures visible. This government has said very clearly that if the goal is to implement a cultural change in Swedish health care, with the aim of creating a more patient-centred care, then of course a single agreement will not be enough, but this must permeate the whole policy. One area that this government has identified besides disseminating knowledge via, for example, national guidelines is the supply of skills in healthcare. We know that if there are not enough people in the healthcare system who have time to understand the latest findings and guidelines from the National Board of Health and Welfare, let alone organise the work in such a way that the patient is really placed at the centre, or for that matter, if there are no specialists who could help, for example, improve the care of people suffering from psoriasis, then it matters almost no matter which national guidelines or other knowledge support they disseminate. For this reason, the Government has, among other things, invested a billion of dollars in the profession, which will run over the next few years, which aims to support efforts in the healthcare sector that will improve the provision of health care skills. We do so with the starting point from the fact that it will not be enough just to train more nurses or more doctors and that it will not be enough just to make sure that those who currently work in Swedish health care are able and want to stay, but we also need to look at how we use our human resources in a much more effective way. This is why we have focused on e-health in the professional billions. We know that if we can increase the digitisation of care, if we can get the IT systems to start talking to each other, then we will reduce the administrative burden on health care staff so that they can actually spend more time on patients, but we can also open up channels for people suffering from chronic diseases, among other things, so that they can have direct contact with health services, so that they can take greater responsibility for their own recovery thanks to the new technology. These are some of the measures that I see before me.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-980	Mr President, I would like to We have a great consensus and we see the problem together. However, those who today suffer from psoriasis cannot expect to receive their individual-based care and treatment until quite far ahead. What will happen to them in 2016 and 2017? It's about right here and now. This is a question I would like the Minister to answer. In the Social Insurance Report, there is a proposal and a discussion that the Health Act should be supplemented by a kind of directive that states that health care should care and treat for return to work. Could it be something, now that you're talking about trying to get the systems together better? Then these patients, if we talk about psoriasis patients, could receive care and treatment for return to study or work. Then the focus would be to find the best treatment method for the person to be able to return to work or study. If we are to be at the forefront in the development of welfare, new treatment methods need to develop health care instead of slowing down somewhere out there. The outcome of new treatment methods will automatically drive the development and planning of health care. If you get it in, it will not be like your own track, with new medical findings and new research and development, but it must be constantly implemented in the health care system. Today I feel that these are not really there between new treatment methods and new findings and the health care system as it is traditionally carried out.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-983	Mr President, I would like to It is important to meet people who suffer from chronic diseases, in this case people who suffer from psoriasis, with a focus on the fact that, despite their illness, you should be able to live an active and full life. Then, just as Lotta Fin's croft points out, it is an extremely important task for health care. In my role as Minister of Health, of course, I have very close contacts with Annika Strandhäll, who is Minister of Social Security. This is linked to the fact that we see that the health care system is absolutely central to being able to meet the rising sickness rates. In this work we are now making an effort, among other things. In fact, we already have tomorrow a first dialogue with representatives of all county councils and regions, where we meet together to discuss what health care could do more to meet the motto that healthcare should also contribute to a return to work. I am very pleased that we have almost full participation from the health services, of course from SKL, from Försäkringskassan and from the National Board of Health and Welfare in order to demonstrate together that this issue is extremely important but also show that together we can take new initiatives in this area. One of the clearest examples, which I believe will help not least patients with psoriasis already in the coming years, is actually the work on the new national guidelines. We know what explosive force there is in the rather dry document that is produced, because it creates commitment, creates curiosity and, above all, creates an awareness of this type of disease. Only that will help people who in this case suffer from psoriasis.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-987	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked me whether I am prepared to initiate a broad parliamentary inquiry in order to analyse in depth whether the will of individuals to die prematurely at severe sufferings near the end of life, and under strict control, should be respected. I can say straight away that I am not currently prepared to initiate such an investigation. At the same time, however, I think it is important to discuss the role of care in the final stage of life. Death concerns us all as part of life. Sooner or later, people close to us are being torn away from us and finally from our own death. Of course, we want the death of both our own and our loved ones to be as free from suffering as possible. Some put it as saying that you don't worry so much about death in yourself as you do about dying. This has recently been highlighted in the media, including through the debate article referred to by Mr Danielsson. The question is where are the limits of what measures healthcare should be able to offer? It is also an issue that has been repeatedly raised by the National Council for Medical Ethics, most recently at a seminar in Almedalen last summer and at the Council's anniversary conference last autumn. The task of health care is to prevent, investigate and treat diseases and injuries. This also includes alleviating suffering and promoting the quality of life of patients with progressive and incurable illness or injury. That is the task of palliative care. It is the medical authorities who will ensure that those who need it receive as good a palliative care as possible. Palliative care should be conducted from an overall perspective, taking into account the patient's physical as well as psychological, social and existential needs. It shall also include an organised support to related persons. In this way, the individual should be given the opportunity to live with dignity and with the greatest possible well-being until the end of life, regardless of age and diagnosis. Over the last decade, much has been done at national level to promote the positive development of palliative care. The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed national knowledge support that provides good guidance for the governance and management of palliative care. In line with this, Sweden's regional cancer centre has developed a national care programme, which applies regardless of the patient's diagnosis or age. The Medical Products Agency has published recommendations on pain treatment in the final stages of life. An important tool for improvement work is also the Swedish Palliative Register, which serves as a quality register for palliative care. Since 2011, there have also been special regulations from the National Board of Health and Welfare regarding life support treatment. In particular, Staffan Danielsson highlights the issue of the freedom of individuals to have their utmost will respected in the end-of-life in severe sufferings. The individual patient's integrity, self-determination and participation are cornerstones of Swedish healthcare. This also applies to care in the final stage of life, as is evident from the regulations and guidance that exist in this area and that I have given here. Of course, people's anxiety about death must be taken very seriously. I believe that continued quality development of palliative care is very important, and it is good that care in the final stage of life is discussed and debated. At present, I am not prepared to set up a parliamentary inquiry to decide whether any form of euthanasia could be allowed in Sweden. However, I follow with interest the debate that is taking place in society on this issue and I welcome the fact that the State Medical Ethics Council, which is a national body for exchanging information and opinions on medical-ethical issues, continues to monitor and take this issue into account in its activities.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-996	Mr President, I would like to As an individual Member of Parliament, I have highlighted a very important and difficult question to Prime Minister Gabriel Wikström. It is true that the Government does not intend at present to set up the euthanasia investigation that will certainly soon have to be carried out. But the Government's response is calm and respectful and opens up for dialogue on the issue. I thank you very much for the answer that I see as a small breakthrough on an issue that I have been exercising, interpelling and debating for a decade. Reality in the long run determines this issue as well as others, and reality is now moving forward in Sweden and in California, for example, which is now to introduce euthanasia according to the so-called Oregon model. In my first speech here, I will give a voice to the journalist and author Harald Norbelie, who shortly before his death, so to speak on DN Debate on 2 August 2015, and he asks a question to Minister Wikström from across the river. I am in the final stage of life. Almost eleven years ago, I was diagnosed with prostate cancer. –– Today I am completely bound to a wheelchair. Must have help to get me in and out of bed with the help of home help and lifting devices. Can't handle my hygiene. Depends on morphine. The metastases have taken control of my skeleton. So what will the immediate future be like? Worse paralysis? Even more impaired eyesight? Severe pain? In 1994, the National Board of Health and Welfare noted that nine out of ten cancer patients suffer from severe pain during the last week of life. I won't have a say in when I'm going to die. No matter how meaningless these last days become. No matter what pain. Then I'll be out of authority. Otherwise, we are happy to talk about the influence of patients. But not now. Our country's inability to deal with death frightens me.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1003	I would also like the debate to avoid a value-charged concept such as'medically assisted suicide'. What is involved is voluntary help to shorten life. – –– When, in the very near future, an incurable illness will lead to death, when pain relief no longer helps and when the patient has explicitly expressed to doctors and relatives his desire to avoid the suffering of the last days, society should not put obstacles in the way. My wish is that someone dares bring life to the issue of the right to our death. What does Minister of Health Gabriel Wikström say? Isn't my desire for the right to decide how much suffering I'm going to put myself through the very last time worth something? That I can get unlimited pain relief, sedation, even if it means speeding up death? That my death can be safe, worthy, and not least painless? Another question that should be highlighted is how a life test can be designed to be safe and secure. These, for example, exist in Denmark. As many as 73 per cent of Sweden's population are in favour of voluntary euthanasia for those who are beyond help, according to a thesis at Karolinska Institutet. The fact that doctors, with their ethics and politicians with their religion, tell me that I should patiently bear my suffering in recent times is the opposite of respect for the sanctity of life. .....................................................
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1009	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Staffan Danielsson, who has highlighted this extremely important and difficult issue for discussion. I would also like, like Mr Danielsson, to thank the Minister for a balanced response which nevertheless reveals an opening, as I read the answer, for continuing to discuss this very important but difficult question. We should not duck difficult questions in this House. Difficult questions should not be swept under the carpet, but difficult questions should be raised on the table, discussed and turned around. I therefore hope that the Minister will contribute to further discussion. However, as I read the answer, the Minister is open to, if not to set up a parliamentary inquiry to be tasked with drawing up a proposal on how voluntary euthanasia could be regulated and allowed in Sweden, to perhaps still set up an investigation that looks at the ethical issues and which gives us as decision-makers a better basis for conducting the further discussion. I think it is appropriate that we take this discussion a step forward. This is not a party issue; it is precisely an ethical issue. That is why I chose, in the run-up to this debate, to take off my party needle and participate as an individual Member in this debate. This is not a question of the party colour, but of ethical considerations, which I think we need to discuss to a greater extent and have investigated. I think Staffan Danielsson managed the argument for voluntary euthanasia by quoting Harald Norbelies's debate article in Dagens Nyheter. However, one aspect that is perhaps not so highlighted in it and in Staffan Danielsson's speech is that the experience of Oregon and the legislation that has been there for almost 20 years shows that the possibility of voluntary euthanasia has actually been something that has in some sense been valuable in the development of palliative care. The fact that a severely ill patient who is beyond cure and repentance and who suffers badly knows that he or she can at any time choose to end his or her suffering and end his or her life is something that actually contributes to improved quality of life. That is why I think it is important to see the issue of voluntary euthanasia as part of palliative care and not as something contrary to good palliative care. I will stay there and hope that the Minister is prepared to set up an investigation that goes further into the ethical issues.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1015	Mr President, I would like to I thank Staffan Danielsson very much for the interpellation. Of course, it is impossible to imagine what it is like to sit in the waiting room of death. Moreover, this experience is entirely individual. It's not just about us having health and being in the middle of life having difficulty seeing what hardships it can mean to know that you're about to die – and many times a death that may not be what you had in mind. Harald Norbelies's words will thus be very strong and an important contribution to the debate and discussion on how healthcare and society can contribute to a dignified end for all their citizens. I believe, as both Staffan Danielsson and Johan Hultberg have said, that we need to discuss this issue. However, I also believe that the issue needs to be discussed in its entirety. It must not, as so often when questions of this kind become symbolic, be about asking for or against in this case euthanasia. Instead, we need to discuss precisely what we want a person's last time in life to look like and how we want healthcare to help make that time as dignified as possible. When you study both the political and the medical-ethical debate, and also the changes that Swedish healthcare has undergone in recent decades, you can see that we – sometimes too slowly, but after all – have moved in a direction where we have gained a better understanding of what it actually means to not only give treatment and make efforts to slow down or cure disease, but perhaps primarily to alleviate at the end of life. I am very pleased that we have been able to conduct this debate in one way, as both Johan Hultberg and Staffan Danielsson say, well and calmly. That is also why I think it would be unfortunate to set up not only a parliamentary inquiry at all, but also an ordinary public investigation into this matter. I think that the shape is very bad for discussing this kind of difficult ethical considerations. First of all, when are parliamentary investigations set up? It is when you are faced with major issues that often require that you have an active act and that the parties need to get along. On this issue, I believe that we would find ourselves in a situation where no party leaves its position but where everyone finds a value in defending its position in a parliamentary inquiry without moving a millimetre in any direction. Nor do I think that an SOU, in the sense of appointing some kind of expert, would help to provide an answer to this question. Then, however, we have the State Medical Ethics Council, which has just a habit of working with this type of problem and has developed forms of work for it. I look forward to continuing to follow the issue, and I would like to elaborate on it in my next speech.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1022	Mr President, I would like to As Johan Hultberg, I have taken off my party needle; I am an individual person and a member here. I want to move the question forward, Gabriel Wikström. Whether it's done through an investigation or through the State Medical Ethics Council, I'm open to this. In 2008, the Council has proposed that the matter should be examined in some form. It is excellent that we are now working on the issue. I welcome this. In my second post, I will give a voice to another journalist and writer. It is Inga-Lisa-Lisa Sangregorio, for whom I have very deep respect, just as in the case of Harald Norbelie. She has just published the book The Last Freedom, which I recommend to everyone interested to read. NoInga-Lisa has wrestled with severe cancer but is today well. She writes like this:中 The hardest thing in my four years of cancer has not been the tough treatments but the knowledge that I will not be able to decide for myself the last time in my life. ..................................................... Inga-Lisa-Lisa also writes, "My ALS-affected good friend Kerstin had her last difficult months further darkened by the fact that her doctor could not promise her that she would not be suffocated to death." She could not speak, could not swallow, but was nourished by a tube in her stomach and got increasingly difficult to control the rest of her body, but her intellect was unspoiled and she continued to write and draw using the complicated routines she had worked out with her husband. All she wanted was the opportunity to die before she choked, but she could not have that security. ..................................................... Inga-Lisa-Lisa continues: and elsewhere it has been realized that it is unreasonable to force severely ill people to go through unnecessary suffering. But with us, a nearly unanimous political corps believes that no Swede should have the right to die without suffering enough. Paradoxically, the same politicians argue at the same time that everyone should have the right to decide over their own body. However, that right only applies if it is life that, against your will, grows in your abdomen. Then you are entitled to abortion and receive health care and community support. However, if it is death in the form of an incurable cancer, you will be unenforced on your deathbed. Explain that logic to anyone who can. I am an old women's fighter and have been involved in working for the right to abortion. Now I have used the deadline given to me by skilled doctors to write a book on euthanasia. In fact, it is high time to give us the last freedom. ..................................................... In conclusion, the Inga-Lisa-Lisa Sangregorio is the model of euthanasia that I advocate in my book has been applied in the state of Oregon for eighteen years and is now in several other states, most recently in California. It gives terminally ill but mentally healthy people, who according to two independent doctors will die within six months, the right to have a means prescribed that they themselves can ingest when (and if) their illness progressed so far that they themselves feel they want to die. Even the opponents today acknowledge that – as Johan Hultberg said – it has led to improved palliative care, and the doctors there are surprised that palliative doctors in Sweden want to create a contradiction that does not exist. The most important result of the law is the peace of mind it brings to people who will never exploit it but who know that it exists if they need it. That is exactly what this is all about. No one, nor I, knows what we will wish for when death really approaches. But what I do know is that the more than four years I have lived with a serious cancer disease would have been much easier to endure if I had known that this possibility existed in Sweden. Then I would have avoided spending so unreasonably many fruitless hours pondering how best to kill myself if my cancer comes back and is incurable. .....................................................
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1039	Mr President, I would like to I share the Minister's view that it should not be made easy in this discussion and just talk about yes or no to euthanasia. Nevertheless, I think that the discussion must begin in a fundamental discussion as to whether I, the Minister and all individuals have the right to their own life and thus also to their death. It goes without saying that the answer to that question is yes and that, as a consequence of that position, it is necessary to take a stand in favour of voluntary euthanasia. Once that position has been taken, the difficult discussion will be brought to bear on how we should draw up such legislation. Where are the limits? What should health care be obliged to provide? When is the decision voluntary? How should we deal with patients who are dementia? All these extremely difficult and important balances and boundaries must be discussed carefully, analysed and investigated. I think, like Mr Danielsson, that there is reason to look at the examples that exist in several different countries in the world. They are both here in Europe – we have Luxembourg, Holland, Belgium and Switzerland – and in the United States, where more and more states have introduced various forms of legislation on voluntary euthanasia. We can learn from the experience of those countries, and I think it would have been appropriate to set up a state inquiry for this. In this way, we will have a good basis for further discussion. Just as Staffan Danielsson mentioned, the State Medical Ethics Council in 2008 concluded that one should in fact have legislation that allows for voluntary euthanasia. The discussion must, of course, continue on precise boundaries, but for me the basic position is simple: Yes, every human being has the right to a dignified death.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1044	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by replying to Johan Hultberg. Nor, of course, do I believe that, in an unwillingness to simplify, the difficult questions of principle should be avoided. It goes without saying that the debate and discussion must be based on them. And that all people have a right to their own life, I think we agree on that. In fact, what this debate is largely about is what principles should apply to health care. Here I think it is important to see that the basic starting point for health care is to protect the life and health of patients. It was referred here earlier in the debate to investigations among the Swedish people where a majority claim to be in favour of euthanasia. I think we would have to complicate those studies somewhat more, because it has been shown in other types of studies that it is easy to give a certain alternative to such questions about their own death. But in a deeper discussion where you also problematize, you can get completely different kinds of results. It is an objection to referring to opinion polls. Another is that there is an overall majority of those working in the healthcare sector, not least doctors who may have had most and most of the major debates on this issue, who are opposed to euthanasia in the healthcare sector. I do not think for a moment that it is a question of thinking, as a doctor, first of all about some personal discomfort of contributing to euthanasia in this case, but rather that this changes, or can change, the whole foundation of the health care system and changes some of the orientations of principle. We also have large groups of patients, not least patients suffering from severe disabilities, who have expressed a very strong concern that a direction towards opening up to euthanasia in the healthcare sector could lead to patients who do not really want to use euthanasia feeling compelled to do so because they do not want to be either society or their close relatives. These are some of the fundamental considerations that we need to make if we want to have this kind of debate. These are, of course, extremely difficult positions, because, of course, what Mr Danielsson and Johan Hultberg are talking about, namely the individual right to his own life, the individual right to be able to put an end to his life in dignity, must also be put to this. For my part, I think it is important when we discuss this issue in this House that we not only weigh interests against each other but also try to find out what is in the general interest in this matter. As the responsible minister, I want the debate to be conducted on the basis of the basic principles that apply in Swedish health care, and that must be that the ultimate starting point is to safeguard the right to life and health. This means that the need to see how we can improve palliative care is greater than concentrating the debate on euthanasia alone.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1052	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, essentially a question of palliative care, and then there is this aspect in some isolated cases. It is about the ultimate will of the individual in the face of severe suffering. Of course, no patient group should have any anxiety whatsoever. I think Harald Norbelies and Inga-Lisa-Lisa Sangregorio's heartfelt words say everything. Likewise, my interpellation does so – please read it if you listen or read this – where the brilliant debate article in Dagens Nyheter is included by P.C. Jersild, George Klein, Tuulikki Koivunen Bylund and Björn Ulvaeus. The National Council for Medical Ethics already wanted the government to investigate this in 2008. Today there are also grey zones between different hospitals and different doctors. This needs to be clarified and clarified as direction for all concerned. Politically, too, it is beginning to move on to this taboo issue. The Congress of the Environmental Party was behind an investigation last autumn. The Moderates think I'm about to open up for investigation. At the Centre Party's meeting last autumn, we had a lively and respectful debate, and the investigators reached about a third of the votes. However, the party's line is against investigation, and I am speaking here as an individual Member of Parliament. Germany is supposed to have a free vote in parliaments on difficult ethical issues. In Sweden, I think that the ceiling should be higher in order to express what you really think. And I am very strong in my conviction on this issue that the ultimate will of the individual in severe sufferings in the final stage of life should be respected. The Association of the Right To a Worthy Death has long been pushing this issue in a calm and constructive way and will shortly come in with a letter that I recommend to study as a record. I would like to thank Minister Wikström for a humble and good interpellation response. May the question soon mature into an investigation, I hope.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1059	Mr President, I would like to I also think that we have had a respectful and in many ways in-depth debate on a very difficult subject. As I have expressed here, I have great respect for the fact that the issue is not only being debated but is now also being discussed more openly than for a few years back. It is very important that we, who are responsible for overall policy, as well as, of course, being able to put forward individual positions or, for that matter, have an understanding of arguments from both sides, be able to see where the public interest lies and what our task as politicians is primarily to focus the debate on. I think we all stand up here for the right to people's own lives and the right to decide over them. But the debate must therefore be about the principles we should set for society when it comes to guiding around this life and in this case at the end of this life. What powers should we give health care to assist at the end of life to end life? I believe that we need to take seriously the concerns that exist here, not least within the medical professions themselves. It warns that a development that leads to euthanasia being offered more risks shifting the focus away from the principles on which health care is based. That is my main objection to euthanasia as such. I have previously raised objections to a parliamentary inquiry, but I still look forward to the State Medical Ethics Council taking up the issue once again.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1065	Mr President, I would like to Edward Riedl has asked me if the door for farm sales in Sweden is still completely closed. Edward Riedl has also asked what measures I intend to take to promote smaller producers' opportunities to enter the Systembolaget range. Sten Bergheden has asked me whether I believe that the ban on farm sales benefits rural businesses and whether, if allowed, farm sales would affect public health so much that a ban is justified. The state inquiry into certain alcohol issues (SOU 2010:98) concluded that it would not be possible to limit farm sales so that only Swedish wine producers could sell smaller quantities of their own produced wine to visitors on the farm. Farm sales would have to be made available to producers throughout the EU in order not to conflict with EU rules on discrimination. This would allow European alcohol producers to open shops in Sweden without production in the Swedish countryside. From an EU legal perspective, Swedish alcohol policy must appear systematic, coherent and consistent. If Sweden were to introduce a law on farm sales allowing a new sale channel of alcohol to consumers in parallel with the exclusive rights held by Systembolaget, there is a risk that the justification for the retail monopoly would be contested. The importance of limiting accessibility to alcoholic beverages has been stated in research, and alcohol policy is based on the knowledge that reducing general alcohol consumption leads to reduced alcohol harm in the population. Systembolaget, our retail monopoly, controls establishment and opening hours and controls age, intoxication and risk of dealing, ensure a restriction of accessibility. Farm sales in themselves should not pose a threat to public health, but implementing reforms that could jeopardise the Swedish monopoly is a very serious threat to public health. It is not possible to know with certainty how a review of the current proposal could come about in the European Court of Justice, but I am not prepared to risk the monopoly, which is the cornerstone of Swedish alcohol policy. So yes, the door for farm sales in Sweden is still closed. Edward Riedl is right that the number of smaller producers of mainly beer but also spirits, wine, cider and must has increased in recent years. This applies both in Sweden and in our immediate neighbours, and we see an increased interest in what is small-scale and handcrafted. This development has had a big impact on Systembolaget's offering. In September 2014, the company introduced a new range category for local and small-scale alcohol production. At the start the range included about 390 products from 125 different producers. After a year this had almost doubled to over 700 products from about 200 producers in Sweden and surrounding countries. Systembolaget estimates that this development will continue, and the products have also entered the fixed range and the news launches carried out by the company throughout the country. Local and small-scale alcohol products are distributed to between one and ten stores within a 150 km radius of the place of production. If the producer delivers the products to Systembolaget's depot, they will be ordered for customers throughout Sweden, free of charge. Like Edward Riedl and Sten Bergheden, I think it is urgent that the Swedish countryside have the opportunities to grow. Systembolaget contributes to this by having ongoing dialogue with the smaller producers about how the company can in different ways facilitate them on equal terms. The company cannot, of course, act in a way that favours certain producers in relation to others.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1077	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. As the Minister says in his reply, more and more small producers of beer, wine, cider and more are growing in our country. This creates jobs, especially outside our big cities. Rural areas need more jobs, and entrepreneurs who currently exist in different industries need to be able to broaden their activities. In many rural areas, you get to be a multi-task in order to earn your living. There are, for example, meat farmers who further refine and have farm sales. The product has been taken one more step to make it all go together. The same applies in this area. Farm sales of alcoholic beverages create jobs while not endangering public health, as the Minister also says. Farm sales themselves are therefore not a threat to public health. In view of this, I have asked whether the door is closed, and he replies that as long as he is a minister it is closed. The point is that Finland, which is also an EU country and has a retail monopoly for alcohol, is capable of having farm sales, but the Minister still closes the door. I have also asked the Minister whether it is possible in any way to promote the possibility for small producers to enter the Systembolaget range. I ask the question in the light of the fact that we have a retail monopoly, which means that there is only one channel for selling these products in Sweden, namely Systembolaget. When that door is not open to small producers in the way it might be, there is no way to sell their products. The Minister also replies that he does not intend to take any initiatives, which I find sad. Mr President, I would like to If farm sales work in Finland, why would it not work in Sweden as well?
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1084	Mr President, I would like to I refer to my post, the sacred monopoly and the small wine shop on the farm. Sweden is, as everyone knows, fantastic, and Sweden is a place of freedom on earth – or not. Systembolaget's monopoly on selling all drinks with an alcoholic strength of over 3.5 percent works and has a strong anchor. That's good. Unfortunately, the monopoly is eroded by the fact that cheaper beer and spirits are sold across borders and are sold in disorderly forms a little everywhere. Anyone who wants these goods knows how to get them, not least young people. Unfortunately, they and others have no problem getting access to cheaper alcohol than Systembolaget's. The Swedish Parliament is trying in broad agreement to counteract this by further increasing the taxes on alcohol in Sweden, but for some inscrutable reason the introduction increases further. If you want to reduce drinking in Sweden, it's a lot about limiting the extensive shopping trips to Germany and the widespread black trade in every Swedish city and perhaps also in the countryside. It has been discussed for many years whether Swedish wine growers should be able to sell their wine in farm shops in the same way that takes place throughout the wine-producing world and in Finland, which, like Sweden, has an alcohol monopoly. These are extremely small amounts of alcohol with zero significance for the alcohol problems in Sweden. But it would be positive for some small wine producers and for those who want to taste and buy some wine bottles. It is not a big question, but a very small question. A study a few years ago put forward a very cautious proposal surrounded by bureaucracy and hassle. A wine bottle could be sold at grace on the farm provided it is combined with an experience service related to the drink. A customer would not be allowed to buy more than 3 litres of wine, and the total sales would not exceed 10 000 litres of wine per year. So there were both suspenders and belt straps in that investigation. In order to avoid criticism from the EU that a farm shop could become a local Swedish monopoly, the investigation suggested that the shops should also sell wines from other countries' producers. It was typical Swedish abstinence to the EU by throwing in the towel in the usual order before the battle had even begun. But there has not been any of this. It is still forbidden for a few tens of wineries in Sweden to sell some wine in their farm shops. But it is not in Finland. The motive is a huge fear of Europe. Systembolaget can be threatened, so show absolutely no flexibility. That is the motto of many politicians, and today also of Gabriel Wikström. Surely it would be much better to give these farm shops the chance to sell their wine. Should the EU have views, we will have to take that discussion and possibly change if we lose. But not even having the courage to try a very limited farm sale of the kind already taking place on the other side of the Baltic Sea is quite cowardly, I think. I know, the Government, the Alliance did not reach all the way through on this issue. Now the Liberals have thought in the right direction, and I think that is a good thing. I heard what the government said, but the government is a government of cooperation. I would urge you to cooperate a little on this issue. Stand up for the small farm wine producers, Gabriel Wikström, and take the fight with the EU!
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1099	Mr President, I would like to The basis for this discussion is not really about farm sales as such. As I pointed out in my reply on farm sales, it does not threaten Swedish public health, because we believe that the quantities themselves will be small. However, it risks threatening Systembolaget's exclusive rights. As far as the exclusive right is concerned, it is the very cornerstone of Swedish alcohol policy that we have a monopoly in this area. The exclusive right is digital – either you have an exclusive right or you don't have it. Allowing farm sales would by definition mean that Systembolaget's exclusive rights are broken. What does the EU and EU legislation say about monopolies? EU legislation is not against monopolies, but it must be non-discriminatory. One must not have a monopoly that only benefits its own country's goods and does not allow goods from other EU countries. Therefore, the risk of opening up to farm sales would be that it would also be necessary to open up for sale, for example, wine from other EU countries on these farms. This would mean that Systembolaget's exclusive rights would be broken. I think that Swedish alcohol policy and Swedish public health are too important to keep on experimenting with them. Swedish alcohol policy has served us well for a long time, and we see that drinking is decreasing in many groups, albeit not in all. It is therefore important to continue to build on what has worked well, that is to say Systembolaget's exclusive right to the sale of alcoholic beverages, and rather to see how we can get to grips with the abuses and problems raised by Staffan Danielsson, among others, such as the illegal sale of alcohol to minors. These are issues that we work hard on at the Ministry of Social Affairs, not least in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. Let us work together on these issues and on how we can protect children and young people from alcohol consumption rather than trying to break up Systembolaget's exclusive rights and thus jeopardise the very foundation of Swedish alcohol policy. It is often referred to Finland in these debates. It is important to make it clear that Finland has an exception that they received when they entered the EU in 1995. The exception has certainly not been unproblematic. This, for example, was questioned in 1999 by the European Commission, which led Finland to change its legislation to the fact that the type of beverages that can be sold in farm sales are beverages made from berries or fruits that grow north of the 16th northern parallel. This does not mean that it is some kind of Finnish wine that is sold, but to a large extent domestic traditional drinks. I don't think that's what you have in mind when you talk about allowing Swedish farm sales. Finally, Staffan Danielsson points out that the Liberals have changed their position. After discussions with the Liberals' representative in the Committee on Social Affairs, I can see that we have the same attitude on this issue, although the Liberals have turned the phrase around.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1110	Mr President, I would like to When the Minister goes into what is the function of the monopoly, we are in complete agreement. When it comes to protecting children and young people from alcohol and its harmful effects, we have a fairly broad consensus in our country, both among parties and among people in the general public. We are in complete agreement on this, and we do not need to discuss this very much tonight. What we are raising about farm sales really has nothing to do with that case. The Minister sees no problem with public health if we allow the sale of alcoholic products on farms. That's exactly what I said. That's where we're in complete agreement. Then we do not agree on what would happen if farm sales were allowed on the basis of the situation that there is no overall monopoly on sales. As I said earlier, Finland is an EU member. As I heard from the Minister, it is often mentioned that Finland has had an exception for the products it sells. Nevertheless, it is possible for Finland to have this derogation, and it should then be possible to try it in Sweden. I think that Staffan Danielsson from the Center Party had a position that was quite sensible in this context, that is, if the EU were to criticise Sweden, it is not that one cannot change one's position in such a given situation, should the retail monopoly now be jeopardised. Farm sales are prohibited in Sweden. Then the producers are referred to the only retailer, Systembolaget. It's the only place you can sell your products. For small producers it is a long and complicated process. This always benefits the big producers, both from Sweden and – above all – from other countries. Those with great financial resources benefit from all types of bureaucratic monopoly systems. Small operators, mostly in rural areas, are disadvantaged in this. Not least in Norrland this becomes even more felt. Why? Because there's a long way between the system companies. Why is that a problem? Well, the minister said it himself in his reply: Systembolaget takes in local produce to between one and ten stores, and it will take place within a radius of 150 km. If there is a long way between the system companies, as it is in large parts of our country, producers of this kind of policy are disadvantaged. One of the questions I asked the minister was if you could consider looking at how Systembolaget handles the small producers in Sweden. I think the Minister is somewhat cold-minded there too, instead of seeing that we have different conditions in our elongated country and that the way in which this is dealt with is disadvantageing producers in parts of our country.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1117	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the question of Systembolaget and its relationship with the smaller producers, I do not think at all that my answer breathed some kind of cold sense. Rather, I described a development where Systembolaget has seen that there are a number of producers who want to be smaller producers and who have something unique to contribute to Systembolaget's range. This is why they have changed their range structure. They have also tried to review in dialogue with the smaller producers how, within the framework of the company model that Systembolaget has, they can make it easier for them to both enter the range and contribute in other ways to Systembolaget's beverage range. I do not think that we need to do more either on the part of this House or on the part of the government to facilitate or contribute to Systembolaget's process on this issue, because there is a great deal of sensitivity, in this case to the smaller producers and their needs and to dialogue. Of course, there is also a great deal of sensitivity to the way in which the public debate is going. We note that what Edward Riedl describes as a large and rigid bureaucratic monopoly may have been a truth a number of years ago, but I would argue that it is no longer. Today Systembolaget is a modern company that takes its task very seriously. It is not just a question of protecting what is the very basis of the monopoly, that is to say the exclusive right of the company to sell alcoholic beverages. It is also about that in order to maintain a trust and appreciation among the Swedish people, they must constantly work to develop their range, their approach and their concept. It is not surprising, given the great efforts that have been made by Systembolaget in recent years, that they are today at the top when the Swedish people are asked where there is the greatest customer satisfaction. Systembolaget has this because they are working on this issue. They also have a desire to work with both large and small producers to also get a satisfaction from them. I am sure we will see developments in this area. But I am at least as sure that this development will never take place at the expense of what is the basis of the alcohol monopoly, that is to say, to protect Swedish public health.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1124	Mr President, I would like to I share the Minister's view that Systembolaget has done a lot in recent years; we are in complete agreement on that. It may also be the result of the fact that with a retail monopoly there is also a great deal of power on the part of those who have it at their disposal. We had a situation that was less flattering for Systembolaget a number of years ago. If there is only one retailer and you have to get into this dealer, the people who decide which products are brought in and not a huge power. It can be capitalized on in the worst of worlds, which was also one of the worries. It is the reverse of the monopoly, and it may be a problem. But as I said: Systembolaget has done a lot, and you should have all the honour of that. If you have a retail monopoly, you will have to debate it politically. I do not really share the Minister's view that just because Systembolaget has now done very positive things, we should sit back politically and not debate the various parts and components of this. I believe that this must be our task as long as we have a retail monopoly. Then we will debate and discuss how it can continue. One of the things I lifted up– of course from the areas I come from – is that I see how to disadvantage small producers. The question then is: can the Minister think it reasonable for such a discussion to be conducted politically, that is to say, to ensure that small producers in rural areas are not disadvantaged? They're gonna have a hard time breaking in. This is the case if you get into considerably fewer system companies than you do if you get closer to larger population centres.
i-a9f783e5034e7082-1127	Mr President, I would like to I think that we have a good dialogue with the management of Systembolaget, primarily of course when it comes to meeting the public health policy objectives and what is the basic mission. But it is also a question of asking how Systembolaget performs its service tasks and how to manage the task vis-à-vis those who produce alcohol. As I have said in previous posts, I am very pleased with the current management of Systembolaget. I am pleased with how one has managed to balance one's basic task of also achieving and maintaining a high level of confidence in Systembolaget's operations, not least in view of the constant development within the company in terms of product range and customer and producer treatment. I feel confident that the leadership will continue to turn every stone around so that we will have a monopoly that not only protects what is the basic mission and the main mission, that is, the Swedish public health. One should also maintain a good relationship with the producers and be able to develop this relationship, not least with the small producers that Edward Riedl in the debate so strongly vindicates. I look forward to us continuing to discuss Swedish public health policy in general and Swedish alcohol policy in particular. However, I would like to warn against future debates: as in the countless debates that I have behind me as Minister for Public Health, neither I nor this government will change their position on farm sales. We will never abandon the basic principle of safeguarding the Swedish alcohol monopoly. That is what has been the key to the success we have seen in reducing alcohol consumption among the Swedish people. I would like to thank you for a good debate.
