i-29666732a0ae0025-10	Mr President, I would like to Peter Helander has asked the question of what measures I intend to take to ensure that the Transport Agency's framework for regional rail transport is extended so that it does not have to be closed down. One of Trafikverket's tasks is to agree on inter-regional public transport, on behalf of the State, which is justified in transport policy but cannot be carried out commercially. The reason for transport policy is to create accessibility throughout the country. State compensation for public rail services has been in place for a long time, and for a long time this has also been for both bus and air transport. Since 1999, funds have been allocated to the state budget. Traffic agreements currently mean that the Finnish Transport Agency pays compensation to transport companies for interregional public passenger transport by air, train, boat or bus. The traffic agreements currently amount to a total of SEK 851 million per year. The latest procurement and agreement for Gotlandstrafiken was decided during the previous alliance government in 2014. The agreement runs from 2017 and ten years forward. As Peter Helander is well aware, assessments of the financial framework are made within the framework of the state's annual budget process. In this process, different needs are weighed against each other, and I cannot anticipate that work here. On a general level, my starting point is that transport contracts continue to be of great importance for those parts of the country where there are no commercial conditions to operate public transport.
i-29666732a0ae0025-14	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Minister Johansson for her reply. I know that the Government has received letters from Region Dalarna, County Council Dalarna, Region Gävleborg, County Council Västmanland and Region Örebro on the same issue. The Swedish Transport Administration has announced that the annual grant of SEK 35 million to Tåg i Bergslagen will end from 2017, if the Swedish Transport Administration does not receive additional funding. The four owner counties of Tåg i Bergslagen cover the costs themselves with SEK 220 million per year. If the grant ends, it will significantly reduce traffic on the Mora– Borlänge and Hallsberg– Mjölby sections. The reason for the end of the allocation is not a change in the overall transport policy objective of ensuring socio-economic efficiency and long-term sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. The reason is that the money's over. This is because the cost of Gotland traffic has increased from 200 million in the early 2000s to 500 million SEK. Since 15 years, the entire budget has remained stable at approximately SEK 850 million. There has been no significant list. I might think it's a strange system. Depending on when traffic is procured, you may lose the grant. If Train in Bergslagen's procurement and the traffic agreement had been completed before Gotlandstrafiken, Gotlandtrafiken might have been affected instead of Tåg i Bergslagen. My question to Minister Anna Johansson is therefore whether the Government thinks that this kind of handling is satisfactory and whether the Government intends to take any initiative to overcome what may be perceived as a lottery more than a policy pursued to ensure sustainable transport supply throughout the country.
i-29666732a0ae0025-19	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Peter Helander says, that the grant has remained relatively still for a longer period. At the same time, regional traffic authorities have expanded their activities so that traffic has continued to increase. However, in some places in the country, there is still a great need for state co-financing for the operation of traffic. As I said in my answer, I also see that need. I find it difficult to imagine some form of funding where the appropriation is automatically listed in relation to the development of the agreements. It could possibly be cost-driven in the sense that full cost recovery is always ensured, regardless of the cost of the transport contracts. I do not think that this is an ultimate model for the operation of traffic. As I mentioned in the answer, this is a question that the government will consider in connection with the budget proposal, so I would ask to come back to you once that process is completed.
i-29666732a0ae0025-22	Mr President, I would like to As the Government says in its reply, the budget will be managed within the financial framework. I understand that the Government cannot anticipate that work, and I have full respect for it. I also understand that there are many demands for an infrastructure minister who may also have a hawk for finance ministers who sets the framework for spending. But it is also about how to prioritise in political activities. I come from Dalarna, and there we experience across party boundaries a great frustration that things are not prioritised. Trains in Bergslagen are an example, and we received that message during the spring. In January, we were told by Trafikverket that the track on the Borlänge railway line – Uppsala is so bad that the journey time is at risk of being extended by 45 minutes – on a distance of 180 km, which is a disaster. Trafikverket says you don't have any funds, so it needs to be redistributed or added to Trafikverket. It is said that this deterioration can last for more than ten years. Nothing's going to happen. We also have an airport in Mora that I'm sure will return with an interpellation about. From a socio-economic point of view, Trafikverket dealt with the airport's activities in a very strange way. I know that members of parliament in the Government's own party have courted the Government on this matter. There are many of us who do. Prior to the elections, current Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist recommended people to vote for the Social Democrats, because then they would arrange the problems that existed at Dalabanan. Although the Government cannot make any promises here and now, I very much hope that the problems with the allocation for traffic agreements, Dalabanan's status and Mora airport will be resolved.
i-29666732a0ae0025-28	Mr President, I would like to There are great needs in the infrastructure system around the country. I would remind you that the Finance Minister of the previous government stated on a number of occasions that Sweden had overinvested in the railways. I can only say that this government does not agree with that statement. We are now seeing around the country that railways are actually losing status. By increasing to 1.24 billion plus another 100 million to rural railways, the government is now tackling the need for poor maintenance. Of course, that money should be spent as wisely as possible. The Finnish Transport Agency needs to prioritise the routes that are most vulnerable. This means, of course, that Dalabanan is also among the objects you look at. I hope that we can have a broad consensus on the need to renovate Swedish railways and continue to make up for the loss of maintenance. This affects the possibilities of travel and increased accessibility throughout the country. As I said, the transport agreements are an issue that we intend to return to in the budgetary process.
i-29666732a0ae0025-32	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Government will return. Perhaps she will then provide information about investments in the traffic agreements. At least there are a few of us who will follow up on this issue. The fact that previous governments have not invested as much in train maintenance as they should have done is certainly correct. It covers governments for perhaps 30 to 40 years. It is important to give priority to rail transport. It is of great importance for Dalarna's development and possible growth. Then I have not even mentioned investments on other railways that cost much more. The people and politicians in Dalarna are somewhat sceptical about investments in high-speed railways, as we ourselves do not have a railway that works.
i-29666732a0ae0025-35	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we are in a situation where we need to build a sustainable transport infrastructure that will carry far into the future, while ensuring that the railway we have is maintained and maintained, so that it can function satisfactorily in all parts of the country. These are, of course, difficult balances and priorities, but politics is about prioritising and trying to get taxpayers' money to go as far as possible for the benefits of society. We see the need for a functioning public transport system, including by train, throughout our country. We know that there are places where it is difficult to do this without state aid. As I said, this issue will be dealt with in the ordinary budgetary process.
i-29666732a0ae0025-36	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked me whether I intend to work towards the creation of a European register of false parking permits. Several municipalities have highlighted problems with invalid parking permits for disabled persons. Parking spaces for disabled people should only be used by those who have the right to use them. Anyone who park in a parking lot for the disabled without permission makes it difficult for those who have the right to use these. The government is prepared to consider different types of measures to curb cheating and abuse of both Swedish and foreign parking permits. The amendment to the Regulation on the movement of vehicles in certain cases referred to by the Ministry of Industry will also be able to be used against invalid foreign parking permits. The referral also includes a proposal to increase the maximum amount for parking errors a municipality can charge. Like many other issues relating to disability, the regulatory framework for parking permits is mainly the responsibility of the Member States. Who issues parking permits and how the assessment is made remains a national competence. In order to increase accessibility and mobility within the EU, there has been a recommendation since 1998 on how parking permits should be designed. Member States shall also recognise each other's parking permits. It is the responsibility of the European Commission to put forward new proposals. The government has so far not pushed the issue of a European register of parking permits for disabled persons. However, the European Commission has launched a project to increase the opportunities for people with disabilities to use private and public transport. Part of this project is to prevent cheating and misuse of parking permits. The project will continue until the end of 2016. It will then be evaluated to assess whether further action should be taken at EU level.
i-29666732a0ae0025-44	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his answer. False parking permits for disabled people have always been attractive on the black market. Earlier, when there were mainly Swedish permits, collaborations have been established with the large municipalities in Sweden. It has been possible to see which permits have been blocked or stolen and have been able to act accordingly. However, in recent years there has been an increase in the number of permits issued by other EU countries on Swedish streets. The answer to the question of whether or not to work for an EU register is to be interpreted as a 'no' from the Minister for Infrastructure and the Government. What the Minister says is that the issue has not been pushed in the past. The permits are attractive. They apply throughout the country with national regulations, and it gives a lot of advantages to hold a permit. For example, you have the right to park no more than three hours where parking is prohibited or in a place where parking is allowed less than three hours. You can park for 24 hours where a local traffic code says otherwise. You have the right to park three hours on the pedestrian street. In Stockholm it is even more generous regulations; here you can stand 24 hours where there is a parking ban, and you can also stand on a paid parking space without paying the fee. Now the government proposes a national register for Swedish permits. That's good, but you can't really get to the problem. The cheating is done by means of foreign permits, and it is in principle impossible for the parking guards to know whether it is false or genuine permits. Most of the foreign permits are in Swedish registered vehicles. The parking department of the City of Stockholm has carried out a survey that shows that up to 90 – 95 percent of the foreign permits are in Swedish registered cars. If you only create a Swedish register you will not get to the problem. The Minister for Infrastructure says in his reply that it will be possible to move vehicles that have false permits. I can inform the Minister that it is already possible today to move a vehicle with a false permit if it is in a place reserved for disabled people. Of course, it is always difficult to see whether it is false or genuine. However, a parking guard who sees that the condition is obviously false can intervene and move the vehicle. On the other hand, a found vehicle with a false permit that is, for example, prohibited from parking or allowed parking can only be moved if a police report has been issued. I assume that the Minister refers to the new law on this subject which is being referred to. If it is not possible to establish a European register, I believe that the government should work to ensure that the permits are the same throughout the EU. Then it will also be harder to cheat. Today there is only one recommendation on what to look like, and on some permits there is also a lack of deadline. It's hard to get to the problem. Even if you contact other countries, you do not get an answer when checking whether a condition is genuine or false. Those who get caught are, of course, those who need to use a place for disabled people. We must see to it that the addiction is suppressed.
i-29666732a0ae0025-52	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that the abuse of places for people with disabilities is a major problem. I would also say that this is very much immoral behaviour. People who are able to transport themselves on foot or do not need the places still feel that they have the right to take up the places with false certificates by other means. This means that they make it difficult for those who find it very difficult to use regular parking spaces. This is an atrocity. The government has now taken a number of measures. We will examine the possibility of establishing a national register. It will mean improved possibilities for parking guards to see if the permits located in the cars are first and foremost valid but also where they are issued somewhere. They will thus be better placed to check whether the permits are correct. We will also proceed with two amendments to the regulation. One is about being able to move vehicles when you suspect that a false parking permit is being used. The second is to increase the amount limit for misparking with false permits to SEK 1,300. We believe that these measures will have a deterrent effect. It is already the case today that a fairly large number of the fake foreign parking permits that exist in Swedish cars are quite bad forgeries. There, parking guards in Stockholm, for example, say that if they had had another opportunity to move those vehicles, it would have made it easier. If there is a condition in the car today, even though the naked eye can see that it is a fake, it is difficult to get to the problem. It may sound like a very simple and smooth solution to set up a common EU register for these permits. However, I believe that we are in danger of having a very bureaucratic approach, in which we also run the risk of, for example, interfering with the way in which we authorise, what criteria should apply, how long they will apply, and so on. I still believe that we value the possibility of having the competence to decide who should have a permit in Sweden, on what grounds and how long they will last and so on. That is why I would at least like to wait. We are not saying that we should not work for a common EU register. But we believe that we first need to look at other measures and see what effect we can have from them. Of course, we want to avoid making it more difficult to seek and obtain permission. Nor do we want a very large-scale EU bureaucracy on permits. Although it may sound like a powerful measure, the risk is that it will be a major bureaucratic problem. I do not believe that either the disability movement or Sweden as a nation are the servants of this.
i-29666732a0ae0025-59	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with the Minister that it is reprehensible and immoral for these people to use a parking space intended for those in need of it. That's where we're in complete agreement. However, like the Minister, I do not believe that we will get to the problem simply because it is possible to move the vehicle. It is in itself part of the whole thing that you should be able to move a vehicle that has a false condition. Then we can file a police report, and hopefully it goes to prosecution in a future. There too, Sweden and the Swedish legal system must be improved. If I remember correctly, about 50 police reports were made on false permits. There was one who had moved on to prosecution, and then they won in the first instance and lost in the second. Here, too, the judiciary must become much better at giving priority to these issues. I don't believe a thing in over-bureaucracy. What it is about is to see whether the permits are valid for the first time and, secondly, whether they are stolen or lost. Today we live in a world of internet and IT. It would be quite simple if you could have a base to see if it is a valid permit that is in a vehicle that is parked. This is especially true when cheating is so widespread. In the survey, 95 per cent of Swedish registered vehicles had foreign parking permits for disabled persons. It feels like it is cheating on a large scale, especially on the streets of Stockholm, because that is where the survey was carried out. The scammers occupy more than 2% of all allowed parking spaces. It is not only a problem for those who are disabled, it is also a problem for everyone else who is doing the right thing in society. It may seem that it is a small matter in general when compared with the lack of housing or the unemployment of people. But if we do not control fraud, the whole view of the rule of law is in danger of cracking down. There are rules for more people to feel free and be able to take part in society. People should be able to have access and be able to participate in our society. The rules are in place precisely to make it easier for people with disabilities. I don't believe what the minister's saying with over-bureaucracy. Of course you can wait and see how the new legislation works and if you get to grips with the problem. But I do not think so given the widespread cheating of foreign parking permits.
i-29666732a0ae0025-66	Mr President, I would like to There are 28 countries in the EU. I think they have quite different rules on how to apply for a parking permit for disabled people, how to get them, who issues them, how long they apply and on what grounds, what rules apply to where and how to park and so on. If you go further and very hard push the demand for a common register, there is a risk that you get regulations that are about how they should be designed and so on. Otherwise, there is the risk that there is a continued incentive to cheat with the permits that exist. The functioning of such a register also requires the reporting of all Member States and the maintenance of the register. I understand the desire to be strong and make political demands. However, if we are to proceed with this, we must first look at the risks involved in pushing such an issue forward. There are quite large risks associated with such a proposal. The measures that the government is now taking are the measures that the disability movement itself has been pursuing. It feels good that we as the government are now taking a strong stand against abuse and cheating with disabled lats, and we hope that these measures will have the desired effect. We will also closely monitor the work undertaken by the Commission to increase accessibility and, as part of this, to prosecute abuse. When the Commission's proposals come later this autumn, the government will look at what they look like and whether there is reason to continue working also at EU level on improving the regulatory framework. I would like to point out again that most of the permits used in parking spaces in Stockholm, for example, are very bad counterfeits. They can be accessed by moving vehicles at the expense of the car owner where one has reason to suspect that it is a false condition. I think that the deterrent effect it will have will have will make it a little less interesting to use such permits.
i-29666732a0ae0025-72	Mr President, I would like to The Minister must put himself in a position where a parking guard will make an assessment of whether a permit is forged or genuine. You don't want to risk someone with a real license getting the car taken away. It is clear that this is a rather difficult assessment that the parking guard must make. If a permit is clearly falsified and you can see that there is a map of another country and a third national designation, it is quite clear that you can move the vehicle and access the permit. But otherwise it is not as simple as the Minister says. I do not believe in this over-bureaucracy thing, because why should the EU interfere with the grounds on which authorisation may be granted? What is at issue here is that you could have a register of stolen and lost permits and possibly valid permits. In addition, there are already recommendations on the status of permits in EU countries. But they're just recommendations, and they can look a little different. If it is not possible to get a register, I hope that this government is at least working for a system where the permits look the same so that it will not be difficult for the parking guard or the policeman to see if a permit is falsified or not. In this way we can get away from this cheating, which affects those most in need of these parking spaces. I see the speaking time is running out. For me it remains to wait for the work of the government; I will keep an eye on it. I also want the island to the minister a nice summer.
i-29666732a0ae0025-76	Mr President, I would like to The government has drawn attention to this problem and put forward proposals for measures that are well in line with the measures proposed by the disability movement. I hope that these measures will have an effect, but we will of course follow this issue closely and see if there is any reason to take further action. At the same time, in all systems where people have the right to exploit, for example, parking spaces on certain grounds, too strict regulations are at risk of affecting those who should actually be entitled to the seats. So it is really important to find a balance here so that it will be possible to continue to obtain authorisation while we curb the cheating as much as we can and find the necessary measures. I am definitely prepared to continue working to make the permits look the same. Unfortunately, however, this is not an issue that the government itself owns, but it requires a common understanding. Firstly, I am still not entirely convinced that an EU register would solve the problem. Secondly, there is a risk that it will be more complicated and a very extensive bureaucracy. But we will definitely keep an eye on the issue and do what is necessary to tackle the problem. I wish the honourable Member a pleasant summer.
i-29666732a0ae0025-80	Mr President, I would like to Christina Örnebjär has asked me if I will take any initiatives to make it easier for the parents of children with chronic illness or disabilities to take part in teaching staff in preschool and school as regards the child's needs. Christina Örnebjär has also asked me if I would take any initiatives to make it easier for parents to give up secular work to support their children in school and preschool when the staff who know the child's needs are absent. I share Christina Örnebjär's view that children with diabetes should have a safe school day and, like all children, have the right to an equal education in a safe environment. The municipalities have a responsibility for all children to be able to attend school and to offer children over one year of preschool to the extent required by the parent's secular work, regardless of whether the child is in need of special support. According to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations and communication sheets on the assessment and performance of self-care, it is the health care system that will determine which measure can be carried out as self-care in each individual case and make new assessments if the conditions change. Schools and preschools have a responsibility to help children and pupils with their self-care, such as taking their medicine when the child is in preschool or school. Municipalities should allocate resources to preschool and school according to the children's different conditions and needs. Children's right to support in preschool and school is a prerequisite for children and parents to feel safe and for parents to be able to reconcile family and work. Parental insurance and temporary parental allowance allow parents to compensate for loss of earned income when the parent temporarily has to give up work in a number of different situations when the child is ill or needs to visit a doctor.
i-29666732a0ae0025-84	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I wonder if the government or the President can calculate how much insulin a six-year-old with a blood sugar level of 7.3 should have when the child has been playing sports for an hour and when it is time to eat a portion of spaghetti and meat sauce, some salad and a glass of milk. I can't; I have no idea. There is also no standard response as all children have individual quotas. If they do not get their insulin or the right amount of food, they will need to visit a hospital within a few hours. In Sweden, type 1 diabetes is the most common chronic life-threatening disease affecting children and adolescents. 0 percent will be cured – 0. Instead, diabetes is the most common cause of death for young adults with type 1 diabetes. The disease is three times as common as all cancers, and we cure somewhere between 75 and 80 percent of all cancers. We do not know the cause of type 1 diabetes. The knowledge is incredibly low. It is an invisible disease both literally and figuratively. Because parents are aware of the needs of their child, it is also those who train the staff in school and childcare. It usually takes one to two weeks. After that, telephone contact is often enough. Healthcare consists of blood glucose monitoring approximately once an hour. Meals are counted for carbohydrate and insulin dosage is based on blood sugar levels. It also includes preparedness for emergency situations with low blood sugar and to accompany you to the hospital with an ambulance. In the past, parents were entitled to a vab allowance – child care – to train the staff. But a new interpretation means that Försäkringskassan no longer allows vab. It is believed that the disease is only the indirect cause of the parents' application for a vab benefit. There are two judgments. One comes from the Administrative Court in Jönköping, where a parent of a chronically ill child was entitled to vab-compensation when preschool was closed. The second comes from the Administrative Court of Appeal in Gothenburg, where the parents of a boy with diabetes were denied the right to compensation. A lack of staff with knowledge of illness that can lead to death if it is not handled properly is therefore not considered a reason for the parents to receive vab compensation. Instead, parents are meant to take a vacation. Is it really reasonable to refer parents to taking vacations in 2016 in order for their chronically ill children to be able to stay in preschool and school? In addition, the Social Insurance Agency informs some parents that the school will compensate them for lost work income when training resources, teachers and leisure staff. It sounds strange in many ways. What should you rely on to get leave of absence? What happens when parents are not entitled to vab and have no parental leave days or holiday days left? On what basis should parents be able to leave work to ensure that children with a serious, chronic and fatal, but treatable, disease receive the right care and can thus go to preschool and school? In this context, it should be said that this is not just about diabetes. There are children with severe allergies, heart defects and many other chronic and sometimes fatal diseases who are affected by this new interpretation.
i-29666732a0ae0025-91	The answer to both questions is obviously no. No initiatives are being taken to facilitate this. Instead, it is said that it is the municipality that should pay, and it also says in the answer that it is precisely vab that should be taken out, which does not work in practice. I wonder: Should a parent who comes along to care for the child and in parallel educate the staff have to take a vacation?
i-29666732a0ae0025-93	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Örnebjär, for a very important interpellation! The situation you describe is extremely difficult for the families affected. I have in my own close family children with type 1 diabetes who debuted just a few years ago, and even at my youngest daughter's preschool I have been close to a situation with children with type 1 diabetes. I am therefore quite familiar with the situation described by Christina Örnebjär. I think it is extremely important that children with chronic diseases should also have the right and the opportunity to both a safe preschool and a safe school, and that those parents who have children with these types of diseases and diagnoses should have the conditions and opportunities to combine work and family life in the same way as ever compared to families who do not have this kind of difficulty to deal with. I would like to assure Christina Örnebjär that the answer to the questions she raises in her interpellation is not 'no' in both parts. For example, the government is now implementing several initiatives to strengthen pupil health, increase staff density in schools and reduce the size of children's groups. The aim is, among other things, to really strengthen the conditions for students and children to have different needs met and seen in the Swedish preschool and school. At the same time, it is extremely important, in order to give all children a safe school day, that the staff working in health care, preschool and school and the parents cooperate well in order for this to work as best as possible. As late as February 2016, the Government appointed an investigation that will review the entire parental insurance. This includes a review of the temporary parental allowance. Precisely what it will land in is, of course, nothing that I can precede at this point. Just as Christina Örnebjär points out in her excellent interpellation, the interpretation that Försäkringskassan now makes of the legal situation is based on court practice. There are judgments pointing in different directions. The fact is that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is currently waiting for a decision from the Supreme Administrative Court to obtain a clarification of the legal situation. I think this is important to all of us. As legislation is designed today, the very foundation is situations in which the child is prevented from attending preschool because of his illness and the parent is thus obliged to refrain from gainful employment.
i-29666732a0ae0025-100	Mr President, I would like to It is no wonder that the Government knows about children who have type 1 diabetes, because it is about 8,000 children in Sweden who do. Every day of the year, two children fall ill. The number of these children is a 24 - hour job, and studies show that parents of type 1 diabetes children are much more likely to suffer from fatigue depression than other parents. The proportion of mothers is 44.4 per cent higher. Many parents lose much of their income when training staff and have to spend time in school every time a new teacher starts, if the child changes year or school and at school start. So, apart from concern for the child, parents are also financially affected, and this hardly makes the anxiety any less. The National Board of Health and Welfare is indeed the authority that has produced regulations and communication sheets on self-care. When I read there, I see that it says, among other things, that the guardians' supervisory responsibility for their children, according to Chapter 6. The parental code, transfers to preschool and school the time the child stays there. Preschool and school therefore have a responsibility to help the children and pupils with their self-care, e.g. help with taking their medicines. There shall also be procedures for what is to be done to comply with this obligation. It is important that qualified healthcare professionals, preschools, schools and guardians work together to ensure that self-care functions as safely and as well as possible. ..................................................... This is going to be impossible to understand. If the school is to take responsibility for self-care but the parents are not allowed to train the staff and the school cannot take over self-care responsibility from the parents – who should take responsibility for self-care when the child is in preschool or school? Today, there are schools that refuse to take on self-care responsibility and think that parents should be involved in all external activities, do not care about fixing resources for fritis and call in parents in time and out of time just because they themselves simply do not want or can. There are also those who do not dare to take responsibility. I myself am a teacher, and it is my responsibility to take care of my students during school day, whether they have heart problems, severe allergy, epilepsy or, for that matter, diabetes. Just as parents want to feel safe when their children are in school, I want to be sure that I know what to do and how to deal with the child's illness. It is certainly more expensive with an ambulance ride than a week's vab for training staff. Research shows that children with diabetes have worse study results than healthy children. In addition, young children often find it difficult to communicate what they feel and how they feel. This places extremely high demands on knowledgeable staff, especially in preschool. The change that has taken place has made life both more difficult and filled with more concern for children and their parents as well as for teachers and educators. I think it is contrary to both reason and feeling, not to mention laws and conventions on children's rights. These children are already going to have to forego so much. My own children are about to go to camp. They've been dying for that all year long. It is not obvious or even possible for all children with serious chronic diseases to do such a thing or for that matter to go with the friend and bathe for a whole day. All children have the right to attend school, and apart from that, we also have compulsory schooling. It is great to invest in school health care, but it is also important, as I said, that parents be involved, because they know the unique situation of children. So, what will the Government do to ensure that all children really have this right and that parents have the opportunity to actually follow schooling? The investigation of vab is good, but doing so does not help parents and children who are affected today.
i-29666732a0ae0025-111	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we must nevertheless note that we have a legal situation with judgments pointing in a slightly different direction. The Social Insurance Agency has during this time assessed how it intends to apply the legislation we have today on the right to temporary parental benefit. We await a ruling from the Supreme Administrative Court. That I, as a minister, would precede it, I find strange. In addition, as I said, we have set up an investigation into parental insurance which looks at the temporary parental allowance. At the same time, I have the greatest respect and understanding for the situation that many parents experience and the powerlessness that they also experience from time to time. However, I am not sure that it is the temporary parental allowance that will be the solution to this, but rather I think it is about strengthening and improving resources for school. This is done by the government through our efforts, but also by the fact that we actually provide quite a lot more resources to the municipal and county councils sector, among other things to increase staff density in schools from this autumn onwards. It's necessary. It is also necessary to have the opportunity to see and support those children who have specific needs in the school environment in order for them to have the right and access to quality schooling. The parents of children with special needs should also be able to feel confident that the school has the resources to take care of the child's needs while they are in preschool or school. That is where we should focus our energy and commitment to this. The picture that Christina Örnebjär paints is well known to me. She describes that parents feel that there are direct or indirect demands for them to participate in school work and in excursions and other things in a way that goes far beyond what parents of children without special needs do. That is quite unreasonable in the long run. Rather, we should create security, so that you can support these parents, through a combination of our social security systems and the resources that we provide for school and preschool. It can improve the situation for parents and children.
i-29666732a0ae0025-115	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the opportunity to raise the issue. And, of course, I would like to thank the Government for the debate. I know the government has turned down a date with the Diabetes League. It's a little boring. I wonder why. At the same time, I agree that it does not have to be the temporary parental allowance that is the solution. As I said, however, the question concerns more children than those with diabetes. This applies to those with disabilities, all with chronic serious diseases. I choose to highlight diabetes, partly because ignorance is frighteningly large – although it is a common disease, despite the fact that 0% is cured and even though it is a fatal disease. A decent value indicator of how much knowledge there is is is how much support people give to research. In 2014, the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation received SEK 275 million, and the Swedish Childhood Diabetes Foundation received SEK 10 million. Emphasising the state of knowledge is therefore an important part. The questions remain. What should parents do if there are no trained staff at school? After all, we politicians are giving the Social Insurance Agency its mission. And right now the stricter interpretation of the two judgments has been chosen. It's getting worse.
i-29666732a0ae0025-121	Anna's sitting in the gallery here in the chamber. She has a very simple question for the Government. It is a question that shows the vulnerability and despair of these parents. And that's a question that hurts just the whole body: Who will actually make sure that my son does not die during school?
i-29666732a0ae0025-122	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for raising this question, Christina Örnebjär! It's extremely important. We need to help each other to show how common this is, but also how serious it is and what high standards it places on both school and preschool and the families that have children with type 1 diabetes. I really appreciate the interpellation. I would like to come back to what I started by saying; I do not in any way answer 'no' to the questions you put in the interpellation. We'll act and we'll deal with this. The government provides resources where necessary. Not least student health has been neglected. However, we are also looking at parental insurance and the application of temporary parental benefit. We will come back in that part. However, there are issues that need to be investigated, precisely so that we can start from what family life looks like for parents today, what demands are placed on the possibilities for both mothers and fathers to work and to have safe and secure childcare for children. Once again, if the whole responsibility is not to fall on the parents, it is basically a matter of interaction between health care, school and preschool and parents – in order for us to make it work better than it does today. Surely that is what we all want in the end, that we should create a more secure feeling for the parents who ask themselves exactly the question that you are now asking me? I look forward to returning on this issue.
i-29666732a0ae0025-127	Mr President, I would like to Mats Persson has asked me whether I intend to withdraw the proposal for a new sickness tax on account of the massive criticism. Mats Persson claims that the government lacks a plan to address the problems of rising sickness rates. That's not true. As early as September 2015, the Government decided on a broad action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave. The action programme has led to increased awareness of the seriousness of the issue of sick leave and thereby to increased mobilisation in this area. This has contributed to the decline in the rate of increase in sick leave and the reduction of the sickness benefit forecast for the first time in a very long time. The Social Insurance Agency, employer and health care are all important actors in the action programme. A large number of measures have been taken to develop the role of these actors in the sick leave process. I would like to mention a few particularly important points. Försäkringskassan has been commissioned to strengthen its health insurance management and a resource supplement of SEK 250 million for this work. As a result of the government commission, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has taken several steps to develop the handling of sickness benefit matters. This is considered to be a contributing factor in the rate of increase of the sickness benefit rate now beginning to decline. I share this assessment with several bodies. Among other things, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise addresses this in its referral to the proposal on health exchange. The Social Insurance Agency has also been tasked with carrying out wide-ranging information on health insurance. The agreement with SKL on a quality-proof and effective sick leave and rehabilitation process is one of the government's most important tools to stimulate quality improvement in healthcare. This year's agreement covers SEK 1.5 billion. The development efforts undertaken under the agreement have contributed to a greater recognition of sick leave as part of care and treatment. These include, for example, the training of doctors in insurance medicine and the further development of the rehabilitation coordinator function in order to promote contacts between healthcare and the patient's employer. The proper functioning of the sick leave process also requires that sick-leaved employees be allowed to take part in the measures at the workplace that are needed in each individual case to enable a return to work. This includes that the employer can receive support in the work to reduce sick leave when needed. The Social Insurance Agency has therefore been tasked with evaluating and developing support for employers. The mission is carried out in consultation with employers' representatives. In addition, the Government has taken measures to ensure the development of skills for occupational health doctors. My assessment is that we have taken a big step forward in the work to create a well-functioning sick leave process. The rapid increase in sick leave since 2010 has now slowed down. We still have to reverse the trend. This is one of the government's top priorities. The work must not stop. The measures taken shall be monitored and the action programme developed. This includes further work on the proposal on health exchange. In addition, the government has offered the social partners the opportunity to agree on credible solutions that will reduce sick leave. If the parties do not agree on an alternative proposal, the government will consider presenting the health exchange bill.
i-29666732a0ae0025-136	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Social Security. Getting sick can happen to all of us. Illness is not always something you can help yourself, but it can happen to me as a human by chance or for reasons beyond my own control. That is why we in Sweden have chosen a model that I think is very good: The whole society shares the risk in the event of illness. How, then, are we to share that risk, take responsibility for society together and together take responsibility for those who suffer from incapacity for work and sick sentences? Of course, when designing future social security schemes, the rules must be designed in such a way that we do not make it more difficult for people who are sick or who have been ill to return to the labour market. The government's proposal now means that an employer – public or private – will have an increased cost of somewhere between SEK 12 000 and SEK 15 000 per year for a long-term sick leave. This means, of course, that the way back to the labour market will be longer for those who are currently outside or for those who have a medical history. This is also very clear when you hear the disability organisations say their views on the government's proposals. There is a risk that it will raise the thresholds further for those who live with some form of ill health or disability, and there is a fear that the employer will now hesitate to hire those who have a history of illness or a chronic illness. The labour market is already characterised by the fact that it is very difficult for those who have a disability or who have been on sick leave to enter the labour market. Making it even more difficult for those with a history of illness or reduced working capacity to return to the labour market when it is tough today is a very, very strange proposal. Mr President, I would like to I think that health insurance must be seen as part of the overall policy for full employment, for people to be able to work and for people to go back to work. The rules must also be designed in such a way that it is possible for a person with reduced work capacity, a disability or who has been on sick leave to also return to the labour market. However, with clinical precision, the government is now making it more expensive for the employer to hire and thereby reduce the possibility for those who have a medical history to return to the labour market. That is a step in the wrong direction. This is contrary to what Sweden needs right now. Instead, what we would have to do to reduce the cost development that we see in health insurance is to introduce another withdrawal day after the 14th day of health insurance and to make sure in a much clearer way that the Social Insurance Agency is living up to the rules that exist and clearly testing the individual's work capacity, something that we know from surveys does not happen today. That is the kind of policy we would need to break the increase in the number of cases of illness and at the same time take responsibility for creating a labour market where everyone is needed, everyone gets a place and where it is possible for those who have a history of illness and who today find it very difficult to get back into the labour market. My question to the Minister for Social Security is: What does the Minister see that the Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Landsting, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Association of Disabled People do not see? What does the Minister see that the mass of massive criticism does not see?
i-JT4QjYnmDF7RhyGfcjAeXr	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Persson, for this interpellation! Mats Persson brings up many different things, and I get a little wonderful. Where has Mats Persson been for the last six years? Between 2010 and 2014, when Mats Persson's party was in government, sickness rates rose by 55 per cent, albeit from low levels. At the same time, the policy pursued by the then government succeeded in carrying out 100 000 insurance policies for people who had some form of ill health. This led to a very, very large proportion of people turning around in the health insurance system time after time, while the sickness rates rose and, as Mats Persson very clearly points out, while the trials at the early deadlines fell to below 50 percent. This means that the individual took the full risk. There were no tests to be carried out on the ability to work at the early deadlines, and then there was insurance. This does not lead people back to health, as the increase in sickness rates clearly showed us. What the government has done since we took office in autumn 2014 is to implement a historically broad package of measures aimed at employers, the Social Insurance Agency, health care and, indeed, also citizens at large by raising and putting the issue of sick leave on the agenda in a completely different way from what you managed to do in your years. We can also see that we are actually turning things around. With government measures, the rate of increase into health insurance has halved the last year. We have a plan. We are implementing measures, and we are seeing results, for real, for people. What is alarming, however, and which I, as the minister responsible, have to take into account at this stage, is that, despite this, we still have 200 000 Swedes in our health insurance and that we are still seeing an increase. So that is not enough. We haven't turned things around. The forecast right now says that by 2020 we risk having a quarter of a million people who are not in the labour market but who are sitting on the bench in our health insurance. It is an unacceptable situation for a government that considers it important to take advantage of people's work capacity and to give people the opportunity to return to the labour market. What is most of all the problem is that it does not work well enough in the workplace in terms of early intervention. The government's proposal for a change of health does not cost employers any expense. It is a cost-neutral proposal, in which employers are compensated by also reducing employers' contributions. In fact, it is the private employers, the small companies, with the lowest sickness rates, who will be the winners of this. The labour market opportunities of people with disabilities are a problem. I'm the first to sign that. There we need to make many different efforts, but it is not the proposal for a change of health that is the problem, but the problem is that we have discrimination in the labour market, and that is where we need to focus on breaking this trend. I will come back to that in my next speech.
i-29666732a0ae0025-157	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Social Security. I note in the debate that the Minister has said on several occasions that the massive criticism of the proposal is excessive and that it exaggerates the negative consequences of the proposal. The criticism is massive, not only from the smaller companies and the larger companies, but also from the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, which is a public employer. The criticism is also massive from organisations representing people who are far from the labour market or who have a disability. They are concerned about the proposal that the Government and the Minister have now made. What does this proposal mean? The proposal means that an employer who has a long-term sick leave will have an increased cost of somewhere between SEK 12 000 and SEK 15 000 each year. It is quite right that the Minister says that the proposal also means that the employer will have a lower cost, because the employer's contribution will be reduced. This cost corresponds to approximately SEK 50 per month and employee. Those who do their mathematics realize that if you then have someone who is long-term sick, you should have 25 to 30 other employees who go to work every day to make the calculation work together for the manager at preschool or the small business owner who has a sheet metal warehouse. Whether it is a private or public employer, this is the risk that these organizations now feel will make it more difficult to become employed for a disabled person or a history of illness or for someone who has been on sick leave in the past. The employer will choose someone else instead of the one who has that experience or background. I think we should take that criticism seriously. This criticism points out that the proposal risks creating an even higher-threshold labour market, that the labour market is even worse and does not reduce the number of sick leave. Already today, the employer, public or private, has strong economic incentives to have healthy employees. It is not the case that the head of unit at preschool or small business does not notice whether an employee does not come to work or if an employee is on sick leave. This is evident in the business, and there is already a sickness pay liability that involves costs for the employer. With clinical precision, the proposal makes it more difficult for a person with a disability who has a history of illness or who has previously been on sick leave to return to the labour market. It is in stark contrast to the labour market we need to create, where all people are needed, where everyone has a role to play, where the thresholds must be lower, not higher. I asked a question earlier that I did not get an answer to. I repeat my question. What does the Minister see that the Swedish Association of Municipalities and Landsting, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Association of Disabled People do not see? What is it in their criticism that the Minister does not want to listen to? What is it in their criticism that the Minister does not think is true because the government intends to present and enforce this proposal?
i-29666732a0ae0025-167	Mr President, I would like to Mats Persson can't afford to throw himself with general flosskeler. I do not think that Sweden can afford to throw itself with general blobs about which labour market we want. We must work with concrete measures to deal with a situation where Sweden has, time after time, been almost the world leader in terms of sickness rates. It affects companies, employers and individuals who are excluded from the labour market. We must take all the measures we can to reverse developments. I would like to point out some very important things that Mats Persson is trying to give in his view of the government's proposal for a health exchange. He also calls it a little disdainful of sickness tax. It is a more equitable distribution of the costs of sick leave over the labour market, not an increase in the costs for employers. It is sad that Mats Persson contributes to a misleading picture. This is about the fact that the employers in the Swedish labour market who actually have low sickness rates, over time have had low sickness rates, will also be winners at the Government's proposal. However, employers who over time have been drawn with high sickness rates, such as municipalities and county councils, especially in contact professions that top the health rate, will have a higher cost. They will have the opportunity to influence the cost themselves by working better preventively, by working better with workplace rehabilitation and by creating the conditions for people to return to work and health again after a disease. It is extremely important to point out that this has been one of the cornerstones of the Government's proposal. The second pillar has been to protect those groups in the labour market that are in a weak position. Therefore, they are excluded from the Government's proposal. They are not covered by government proposals. Employers will not have any increased costs for those who have a previous history of illness or have any form of employment support due to either a weak position in the labour market or a disability. It is important to point this out because these images contribute to a misleading debate. What is also extremely important to say when Mats Persson talks about massive criticism is that, yes, there are criticisms, especially from employers' organisations. There is concern from disability organisations. I am also in dialogue with them. Of course, we take in the views of disability organisations when we look at the referrals to see what can be further improved in order to create security. However, we do not solve the problems of selection on the labour market by closing a proposal that we believe can help to get more of the 200 000 Swedes who have now been expelled from the labour market due to sick leave. I must conclude this speech by pointing out that we have opened up an opportunity for the social partners, trade unions and employers to present their own solution if they are critical of the proposal. In that case, the government will not go forward with the proposal for a health exchange. We've been clear about that from day one. I only met yesterday the employers on the county council and unions.
i-29666732a0ae0025-175	Mr President, I would like to I am sorry that the Minister thinks that I am dealing with floscler when I mention the criticism that has been made by several consultation bodies in the debate. The proposal leads to higher thresholds for entry into the labour market. The proposal leads to a deterioration in the functioning of the labour market. Those aren't my flossels. That is what is black and white in the referrals that have come to the Government's proposal. How does it become easier to return to the labour market when the cost of employment increases and the risk to the employer increases? How does it become easier to get back into the labour market today? It's hard to understand how it's supposed to work. The Minister has been clear today. The government will come forward with the proposal. There were many who hoped that the government would withdraw the proposal because the criticism has been so massive. At the same time, I'm a little surprised. The Minister says that if it were assumed that the social partners would come forward with any other proposal, the government would be prepared to withdraw the proposal. It has been evident from the reactions that the social partners will not come forward with any other proposal. But most importantly, I wonder if the government believes in its own policy. Who really has responsibility for politics in Sweden? Who is responsible for the functioning of the labour market and health insurance? I thought it was the government, but the government says that if someone else makes a proposal, the government might consider withdrawing the proposal. It's incredibly strange to have acted. I note, Mr President, that the answer has been clear. The government will come forward with the proposal, and my definitive assessment and the massive criticism from the consultative bodies show that the proposal will make the labour market work worse. That is very unfortunate.
i-29666732a0ae0025-180	Mr President, I would like to Mats Persson talked earlier about listening. I note that he does not listen to what I say in this interpellation debate. He has a prepared agenda and prepared posts that he adheres to. Yes, there are criticisms from employers' organisations and disability organisations. The government is looking at what we can improve in the proposal for a health exchange. Expert authorities in the form of the Social Security Inspection, IFAU, TCO, Saco, to a large extent LO, the workers' organisations, which together represent around 3 million workers in the Swedish labour market, tell me that the proposal is needed. Stronger economic drivers are needed for employers, especially in the case of long-term sick leave. Today, employers in Sweden have no financial responsibility. This means that for a nurse in home care in a municipality who gets sick leave due to fatigue, which often leads to long sick leave, the employer has a cost responsibility during the first two weeks. Just until day 90, when a substitute is in place, the driving forces of the employer do not exist in the same way. This person is at risk of being permanently excluded from the labour market. It is expensive for Sweden, bad for the workers, companies and businesses. Mats Persson obviously knows more than I do that the social partners can agree. I met the county council employers yesterday, and I meet the state employers tomorrow. They are working well with their own initiatives to meet the concerns about the increase in sick leave.
i-29666732a0ae0025-183	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what emerged in the analysis before the Indelningskommitningen map, if six county councils with weak economy automatically become a rich large region and what the economic basis for the so-called Svealand region looks like. It can be pointed out at the outset that the Division Committee has not yet submitted a proposal for a new division of counties and county councils, that no financial basis has yet been provided and that the Government has therefore not taken a position on any proposal. If the Committee considers that it is possible to implement one or more subdivision changes that can enter into force on 1 January 2019, it will submit an interim report by 30 June 2016. The Committee's work is therefore continuing, and I do not intend to precede the Committee's work on these or other issues. The question of the region has been investigated several times. It is clear from these investigations, among other things, that the current classification of counties and county councils is largely no longer appropriate. According to these investigations, several of the county councils and county boards are too small to cope with their tasks both in the short and long term. An important starting point is that all parts of the country should be given opportunities to grow and develop. Part of this reform is to create a good basis for regional development and growth throughout the country and not just in the metropolitan regions. Today it can be argued with some justification that some regions, by their population size, are stronger than others. As far as health care is concerned, the recent report by the Highly Specialised Care Report advocates fewer health professionals. The investigation sees a clear link between volume and quality. The study further notes that the proposal of the Division Committee can facilitate the level structure of health care and enable the principals to cope with regionally highly specialised care on their own. The national coordinator for more efficient use of resources in healthcare has in his final report "Effective care" highlighted the need for improved national coordination and governance of healthcare. The report makes proposals aimed at getting county councils to act more jointly and strengthen common structures. In addition, a more structured consultation procedure between the government and county councils is proposed. The studies show the difficulties in coping with the tasks of the current structure. It is important that Sweden has a well-functioning social organisation that can also provide citizens with a good public service in the longer term.
i-6n6EaUT5sAZaq5u9PkgLUQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The government wants to push through a major regional reform without popular support. There are many questions, as are those who follow this debate. Why does the government want to push through, among other things, the so-called Svealand region already until 1 January 2019? What's the rush? Many of us have wondered that, not least in this House. The question has so far been answered with unsharp snow mosh. That is why I, and not least many Sörmömnärarna, are anxious about the answers that the Government will give in today's interpellation debate. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which draws maps containing six major regions, will submit its interim report on 30 June, i.e. this week. Such regional reform would involve major changes, including the functioning of democracy and citizen influence at regional level. The Alliance therefore wants provisions to be put in place to ensure that citizens' wishes and views are taken into account in the decision-making process on regional reform. Recently, the Parliament supported this – against the will of the Red-Green parties. The government parties and the Left Party are obviously not interested in the wishes and views of the population. In a reservation they say that there should not be specific provisions to take into account the wishes and views of the population when changing the classification of county councils. Instead, the government parties and the Left Party have a top-down perspective and stress the right of the state and politicians to settle this important issue alone. The citizens of Sörmland, for example, have the right to be heard when it comes to the classification of future counties and county councils. Recently, on behalf of the Moderates of Sörmland, Novus conducted an opinion poll. 55% of those polled are of the opinion that the proposal on large regions is a bad one. That is to say, every other foreigner says no to large regions – much because you don't know what it means. On the question of whether a referendum on major regions should be held, seven out of ten respondents replied that it is a good idea. Does the Government consider the will of the people to be important? Why is the government prepared to run over the population on a crucial issue? What's the rush? It is important to have a bottom-up approach when considering changes that at the same time affect day-to-day activities such as healthcare and public transport and the forms of citizens' influence over political decisions. It can have a significant impact on the individual region to which they belong. It is about how to represent as a citizen and the opportunities for political participation. I have read a report from the SOM Institute, where the Associate Professor in Public Administration Lennart Nilsson has reviewed the support for large regions among politicians and citizens. He compares with anchoring and commitment to the formation of Västra Götaland in 1998. This issue was driven both from below and from above by local and regional actors. "It was the parties in West Sweden that initiated and owned the issue, not the state power or the parties at the national level, " writes Lennart Nilsson. He believes that this major region reform is not a democratic reform. What does the Government think about the democratic aspect of a large region? Is the will of the people important?
i-29666732a0ae0025-200	Mr President, I would like to On this issue, I think it is important to back down a little and see what has happened to start from the facts. At the end of the 60's, the second investigation of the county division was presented. In that study, it was found that the county councils did not have sufficient volume of operations or sufficient data in the population to be able to carry out efficient activities that meet the needs and requirements of modern society. This started the change work, and in the 1970s the Stockholm County Council was formed around Stockholm. Deb took off during the 80s and 90s and led to large regions around Gothenburg and Malmö – Västra Götaland and Skåne. These positive changes led the then government to appoint the Responsible Committee, which was tasked with looking at the regionalisation of the whole of Sweden. It was a parliamentary inquiry that in 2007 proposed a regionalisation of the whole of Sweden, not just around the big cities. Several of the alliance parties who were then in the government drove the regionalisation of Sweden, but one of the parties – I do not say which – blocked the change. Not only did it block the creation of large regions, but it also actually blocked the regionalisation of regional development responsibilities. The decentralisation reform that the county councils wanted was blocked in several counties. After the change of power in 2014, Mr. Speaker, this government was courted by a united board of Swedish Municipalities and County Councils who asked us to initiate a process and lead the process in consultation with the county councils and municipalities concerned. A united board in Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils did this because it saw that the current structure in the county councils does not meet the needs we will have in the future. The answer to the challenges is not just tax increases, Mr President. The state, county councils and municipalities have a responsibility to continuously streamline and modernise. We don't have endless resources. And if we look at developments in health care, we see that if we do nothing, we will not be able to provide the citizens with the healthcare to which they are entitled. That leaves the question of structural changes, and this government has heeded the invitation we received from the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. In addition to this, Mr President, we have had a major and comprehensive reform in the state sector. The citizens of Sörmland and Uppsala County have never been allowed to give their views on structural changes in the state, where all government agencies have their own unique regional divisions. Arbetsförmedlingen has a regional division, the police another, the Migration Agency a third and Försäkringskassan a fourth. These authorities will then be coordinated with municipalities and county councils in Sweden's decentralised management model. The state has blocked change. This gives us the asymmetry that we now have in the state organisation. If we are serious about coordinating the public sector in order to make the use of resources more efficient and in order to create good opportunities for growth throughout the country, not just in the metropolitan regions, we must tackle this issue. Then there are lots of difficult issues that need to be dealt with. That's why we have negotiators and an investigation. It is about public opinion and the views of the county councils and municipalities concerned. But regionalisation is not a threat to democracy in Sweden. It's the other way around. Regionalisation and decentralisation of our welfare model is the strength of the Swedish welfare society. It should be acknowledged, and I am pleased that there are more parties based on regionalisation.
i-29666732a0ae0025-211	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with the Government that there are many difficult issues that need to be addressed. Therefore, it is very surprising that the 2018 elections should already have this in place – or rather on 1 January 2019, but it is basically the same as the 2018 elections. The Government itself addresses the divisions and regionalisations of the authorities. Are you going to change, for example, what the police are going through now? This is a difficult dilemma for many in the police organization. Should this be changed when it is in place? I would like to return to the aspect of democracy. It is certainly also something that the government should look at. If we look at the division of mandates that currently exists in the county council in Sörmland, we can see that there are parties and municipalities that will not get any representation in the Svealand region. I would like the Government to mention something about how he views this. Sörmland County Council has not agreed to any new major region from 2019. On the other hand, there is support for trying to bring about a change to 2023. What does the Government think about this? Are you, like, driving over the regions, or how is that supposed to happen? What analyses have preceded the mapping? What are the benefits for the population of each county in the major regions proposed for 2019? Is openness and transparency important for the government, and how is it to be done, according to the Government? The Government's response states that part of this reform is to create a good basis for regional development and growth throughout the country and not just in the metropolitan regions. I fully share the view of the Government in this regard, and it is therefore very strange that the map presented is simply about merging health care regions. Previous investigations have been based on functional relationships. It has also been included in the directives to look at the labour market, regional growth and infrastructure. But here the focus is solely on health care. Why is the labour market and regional growth not the focus of this mapping exercise? We know that Sweden's major challenges are not least about integration and that new arrivals will get jobs. Then it is important to have a government that has an answer and to focus on the labour market and growth in the region as well. Healthcare is struggling with major problems in Sweden. In Sörmland, the care queues are the longest in the country, the overcrowding is the largest, and the health care professionals flee. Does the Government mean that the Sörmland health care crisis will resolve itself when six economically strained county councils will become a major region? How? Does the Government consider that the health care problem is solved by six county councils becoming a large county council? The directive says that the proposal should be based on labour market regions or functional regions. Should regional influence over highly specialised hospital care be seen as more important than an influence on skills provision and commuting opportunities for functional labour markets? There is a lot about the highly specialised care that I do not really agree with how it is actually handled in the county councils that do not have their own university hospitals. My experience is that you buy high-spec care – the highest quality at a reasonable cost – to put the patient in focus. Should the country's highly specialized care become a state, perhaps?
i-29666732a0ae0025-221	Mr President, I would like to The interpeller raises several relevant questions concerning the report of the investigation. I have not received the report. The report will be presented on 30 June, and I am happy to discuss it. Not least, we have to look forward to the referrals that will be submitted to the government with the referral process. It is important that we have a solid process here. The timetable has been long to say the least. Since 1957 this issue has been dealt with by the government in some form. To say that this would be a rapid process is not really compatible with the reality of the issue of the regionalisation of Sweden. Why, then, is the focus on health care? After all, health care is the largest part of the county councils' operations and the largest part of the county councils' expenditure, and we have serious challenges in health care. So far, we have not sufficiently addressed the structural issues. The question that citizens have the right to ask is: do politicians in this country manage to make difficult, large, structural decisions about the efficient use of resources and about ensuring equal treatment in that country? Or do we tend, like the previous government, to postpone the structural issues relating to health care and to allow taxpayers or, at worst, users to take the fall when equivalence is lacking? It is important that we are honest with the citizens. The resources aren't endless. We need to coordinate the use of resources in health care. It is important to be honest with the citizens and say that regardless of what you think about the regional issue, we have very positive experiences of the regionalisation of Skåne and Västra Götaland just when looking at labour market region enlargement and communications. We look forward to such a process in Mälardalen. The county of Mälardalen is, after all, incredibly committed to coordinating communication and collec tion in order to make this labour market region even larger, to facilitate commuting and to ensure that the business community has even better conditions for providing skills. This sometimes meets administrative boundaries that put obstacles in people's everyday lives. Administrative obstacles must be removed by the government and parliament. This means that we must constantly work on modernising the structure of the public sector. Is it a threat to democracy to work with structural changes? No, not if you have a solid process, and that is exactly what we have had on this issue. There have been several investigations, talks, consultations, dialogue and involvement of stakeholders. But then we also have to come to the fore sometime. This is also what citizens expect. When we have the proposals on our table, we will also be able to have a substantive debate. Remember that the option of allowing county councils themselves in the current form to manage highly specialised healthcare in the long term is not realistic. The solution becomes contract-based, and contract-based solutions also have a lack of democracy. We can take part of the research on how indirect, contract-based solutions affect citizen influence and accountability. Let us be honest with the citizens.
i-29666732a0ae0025-228	Mr President, I would like to This is an important debate we have here today. A lot of people outside this house are wondering what's going to happen. The short time frame also makes the anchoring process extremely difficult to keep up with. My appeal is that if this is to happen, it should happen in 2023. The Government says that the issue has been dealt with since 1957. Absolutely, but the focus has always been on the labour market, commuting, communications and infrastructure. The government has completely changed its focus. It is now a question of health care. I think that many with me, and citizens who are not politically active, do not really understand why this is so urgent. That is, of course, a completely different focus from what the committee of responsibility, for example, had in its final report. The commuting in Mälardalen is very important. It is a major growth region. In 2017, we will have a very good system when it comes to commuting around the entire Mälardalen valley. But we can look at the planned Svealand region, which will probably have six electoral districts, if it is one for each county council. There are 64 municipalities and 1.7 million inhabitants. The large geographical distances will persist despite the fact that we say we are a Svealand region. Stavsjö in Nyköping municipality and Kårböle in Ljusdal municipality will always have 51 mil between them, or 5 hours and 15 minutes if you drive the fastest way. You can also measure the distances in the proposed Norrlandsr egion. 51 mil is a commuting distance compared to the route Sveg – Kiruna, which is 100 mil. Geographical distances are also extremely important when it comes to feeling that you belong to the same region.
i-29666732a0ae0025-233	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for this interpellation! It is always good when the important structural issues in the public sector are discussed. It is also very good when we remind ourselves that we are responsible. Administrative boundaries are the effects of our decision. The structures of health care are the effects of our decision. We must therefore take responsibility and constantly modernise. The interpellant asks, Mr President, whether this reform is the solution to all health care challenges. The answer is absolutely not. We must work on a broad front on issues relating to the modernisation of the public sector. This is one of the pieces of the puzzle. Perhaps an even more important reform is the reform of trust, which the government has launched. It is about harnessing the skills of the professions in the public sector. It's about giving the right conditions to the doctors, to the nurses, to the police – to all the different professions that exist in public welfare. It is about reducing the administrative burden and making use of the skills of the professions. It is also a piece of the puzzle that deals with efficient resource use. Then there are all the measures presented by the government in the various areas of welfare. These are, in particular, the investigations that have now been mentioned in the area of health care and which deal specifically with structural changes in health care. It is about how we control the highly specialised healthcare system, how we work nationally with governance and how we ensure that we have a good dialogue between the national level and the regional level. Should you land right on these issues – I hope that the Moderates also land right on these issues – I think you have to let go of the ideological blinders, who are remains of the last century and who are about the goods or not of the regional level. We need to look at the practical challenges that we have. Not least, you have to read SKL's latest financial report and admit that we have huge economic challenges in the public sector that require efficiency improvement.
i-29666732a0ae0025-238	Mr President, I would like to Roger Hedlund has asked me whether I and the government intend to propose exempting certain building permit requirements for temporary housing and, if so, what rules are being considered to exempt building permits for permits for residential buildings. He has also asked whether the purpose of any exemption rules for construction housing is for the government to plan for another large wave of asylum seekers. Let me begin by saying that the Ministry of Industry has recently produced a memorandum of proposals that may make it easier in the future to meet the need for housing. The memorandum proposes an amendment to the Planning and Construction Act which authorises the Government to provide for derogations from certain provisions of the Planning and Construction Act in cases where the influx of asylum seekers has been or may be expected to be particularly extensive – and if this is necessary for housing for asylum seekers to be arranged quickly for a limited period of time. The memorandum has now been sent out for consultation to the relevant authorities and organisations. After taking note of the outcome of the consultation, the Government will consider whether it is appropriate to implement the proposals from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In that case, a proposal could be submitted to the Riksdag in autumn 2016. The background to the memorandum is the refugee situation that prevailed last autumn. At that time we had a large number of asylum seekers who applied to Sweden, which, among other things, resulted in an extensive need to be able to arrange new housing facilities quickly. Experience from last autumn shows that the current rules in the Planning and Construction Act are not adapted to such situations. Among other things, Boverket has stated that the government needs to be given the opportunity to provide for exemptions from parts of the Planning and Construction Act. Experience has also led the government, within the framework of the Migration Agreement, to agree with the Moderates, Centers, Liberals and Christian Democrats that temporary relief in planning and building regulation should be implemented. On the question of whether the government is planning for another large wave of asylum seekers, the answer is no. But we need to be better prepared for the situation to change. The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) notes that the number of refugees in the world is the highest since the Second World War – a total of 65,3 million people were on the run at the end of last year. Against this background, it is important that we learn from the experiences of last autumn if we find ourselves in a similar situation in the future. There, proposals in the Ministry of Industry's memorandum may be a way to strengthen society's preparedness for unexpected or sudden events. Since last autumn, however, the government has taken a series of measures to deal with the situation at the time, and the situation is currently under control.
i-29666732a0ae0025-245	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer to my interpellation, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This interpellation is about housing for asylum seekers, i.e. asylum homes – it is the same thing. The Government has made proposals for exceptions to certain provisions of the Planning and Construction Act, just as you present in your reply. It is about enabling construction housing in premises, in right-of-occupancy associations, in rental apartments and in new dwellings. A number of exceptions are proposed in the memorandum presented to make this possible. Building permits must be granted without permission. This means completely removing the possibility to appeal against this form of building permit for asylum residents. Exceptions can be made to demands to listen to public interests. It is also prepared to make exceptions in the PBL to the requirements for a building to blend into the environment and meet certain quality requirements. This means that in the future we can get so-called trailer parks or rolling buildings or other modular buildings in the residential areas without taking into account that they will blend into the surroundings in a good way. It also proposes an exception to the requirement that a building should not be put into service before the building board has given a final decision. And it is believed that it may be appropriate to retroactively approve past infringements that municipalities have committed, until 1 September 2015. This means circumventing the existing legislation and undermining it. Should we relate to the rules that we have in Sweden today or not? The consequences are, of course, very great. Public interests and influence are being ignored. Planning and construction is a complex process. The municipalities need to have a long lead in order to be able to plan and control the growth that is taking place in the municipality. This is entirely waived by removing the possibility for municipalities to influence here. Municipal self-determination is something that is seriously ignored by this government proposal. From an industrial point of view, it is possible, for example, to authorise buildings in close proximity to areas where companies operate. If these companies have activities that disrupt the environment, this may mean that they lose the possibility of expanding their activities in the future because of the existence of housing near these facilities. The government's proposals therefore have very far-reaching consequences. Is it the government's position that your refugee policy should take precedence over citizens' influence and needs with the proposal presented in this memo?
i-29666732a0ae0025-252	Mr President, I would like to I think this is a very interesting debate. One might think that the Swedish Democrats actually want a good system or that they are interested in having a functioning housing market. But to be honest, this is about something else. If you go back to the situation last autumn, you know that people were forced to live on the floor at Malmömässan. I was called by a municipal politician in southern Sweden who had a hospital available. However, she was not allowed to use it because it was against the building permit rules. If she had put people in that hospital, she would have committed crimes against PBL, because only sick people — not healthy — were allowed to live there. The Planning and Construction Act is not adapted for Sweden to be a country that receives so many people at the same time. But it can happen again. Just as we changed the PBL when an environmental disaster occurred a number of years ago, we need a PBL that can be adapted in the event of a large influx of people. I take it that the Swedish Democrats think it is better that people live on the floor at Malmömässan than on the beds and that it is better to live on the street than to use a hospital or other premises that can be used temporarily. This is precisely what this legislation is for: temporary changes in the PBL. I would like answers to that. The Swedish Democrats mention that the business community will be affected by this. In fact, industry has asked for this! It is also mentioned that municipalities and municipalities' autonomy will be affected. But SKL has also asked for this legislation, so I do not really know what it is that Roger Hedlund is talking about, because both these representatives actually want this legislation. On the Liberal side – and I think I can speak on behalf of the Alliance – we welcome these simplifications. They're really needed. However, we are also critical of the fact that more legislation is not included for newcomers. It can be seen that the former Minister of Housing Mehmet Kaplan had done nothing. Now that we found out how much work had been done with regulatory simplifications to enable housing for new arrivals, it was empty. I very much hope that the new Minister for Housing, Peter Eriksson, will address this issue so that even people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden have somewhere to live. The problem I face is that I, like Peter Eriksson, belong to a serious party, unlike the Swedish Democrats. We must give shelter to asylum seekers who have been granted a residence permit. As the situation currently stands, municipalities will be forced to take more and more apartments from the ordinary housing market. In Malmö, for example, you start buying up apartments. We already have a lack of housing in the regular market, and that is why we have to change this in some way. I would really like to see the government come back with legislation for exceptions also for new arrivals. It is quite clear to me that this Hedlund really about trying to stop all kinds of immigration at all. He prefers that municipalities like Malmö are forced to use ordinary housing rather than that we quickly get more temporary housing for new arrivals. I will stay there and do not ask for the floor again.
i-29666732a0ae0025-261	Mr President, I would like to As Roger Hedlund said earlier, these changes are quite extensive, at least potentially. I think it should be remembered that what we are proposing in this memo is that the government be given an authorisation. If the government then takes advantage of it, and if so, to what extent, will naturally depend on the situation that exists at the moment. In the near future, we will probably not need the authorisation. But the important thing in this context is that we have learned a lesson. It is important that the political system takes responsibility when we are surprised and surprised by a situation for which there is no preparedness in the country, that we take on board the lessons and make changes to the legislation so that we do not end up in the same acute crisis again and do not manage to give people shelter and a bed to sleep in. That, of course, is the purpose of this memo. It's not that we want the refugee waves in the world to grow. But the problem is there and has been a growing and increasing problem for a long time. As I said earlier, more than 60 million people are on the run around the world today, and we cannot be sure that we are not getting large numbers of refugees again. Things can happen in our world – in Ukraine, the Middle East or southern Europe – that bring many people here. Then it is better to look at our house and be prepared instead of not being prepared. What I find a little worrying is that interpeller Roger Hedlund seems to think that it is better that we are not prepared and can make decisions that allow people to get a roof over their heads and that we should ignore the request that has come from SKL and the municipalities concerned instead of ensuring that effective measures can be taken that resolve an emergency situation when it comes to needing it. Robert Hannah is interested in bringing about this legislation. I think it is good that the Liberals are involved in solving important societal problems and solving people's needs when they arise. However, the fact that we should also have special temporary legislation for new arrivals is more problematic. It is not a category of people in the same way as refugees who come to Sweden. We cannot reasonably have specific legislations for redheads, for one leg or for newcomers in the area of housing. We do not intend to create a situation where new arrivals will permanently live in one place and left-handed in another, but we want society to be inclusive and housing based on other categories. However, it is possible to do this for refugees who come to Sweden and are in an urgent need of housing.
i-29666732a0ae0025-266	Mr President, I would like to In response to Robert Hannah, the Liberals, and Minister Eriksson, I would like to say that it is perhaps better to ensure that we reduce the number of asylum seekers in Sweden, for example through the border controls that have been introduced, rather than developing exceptional rules to resolve the situation, which affects the municipalities and the individual and hardly creates better conditions for a long-term functioning society. This is especially true in times like today, when we have a very strained housing market and welfare. When's this gonna happen? In exceptional cases, says Peter Eriksson. Yes, but the memo shows that this should be the case when we reach historically high levels. One can then think about when we reach historically high levels. According to the memo, we have reached historically high levels in recent years. For example, it mentions the report submitted by the Finnish Immigration Service in April 2016 that in 2016 40 000 - 100 000 asylum seekers will apply to Sweden. It is to reach historically high levels, so it will probably be necessary if, for example, there is a wave of refugees coming to Sweden in the autumn, like the one we saw in autumn 2015 when it was at its worst. According to the memo, not only are those who apply for asylum and are in a housing establishment while they are waiting for a residence permit. This can also apply to those who have been granted a residence permit but who do not have a residence in Sweden. Given the housing shortage we have in Sweden and if there is increased pressure during the autumn, this means that these exemption rules for building permits can very much be considered. This means, as I started with, that an asylum accommodation in a tenant-owner's association, in a rental apartment, in a premises near you or in a newly built house can be located outside your house. According to the memo, it is also not temporary, but for up to 15 years, provided there are needs – and as the housing shortage looks today, and with the asylum pressure we know to exist in the world, it is highly likely that the exemption rules will not become exceptions without permanent. Instead of focusing on helping the 65 million refugees around the world who are not able to come to Sweden, it is necessary to establish exceptional rules that disregard public interests and the possibility of, for example, appealing to building permits. In my opinion, it is quite possible that these exemptions for building permits may be applicable in the autumn. What is the Government's assessment of the situation?
i-29666732a0ae0025-273	Madam President, I would like Roger Hedlund is a little sloppy in his formulations. He says that we are doing this instead of helping the 65 million refugees in the world. It's sad that he has that attitude, because it's not reality. The government and Swedish social life work hard to help refugees in the world. We are one of the countries in the world that does the most to help refugees who are in different refugee camps and who are fleeing from the countries from which they come, and we intend to continue to be so. It is a bit difficult to follow Roger Hedlund's reasoning. On the one hand, he says that we should not need this legislation because it overrides the autonomy and self-determination of municipalities and overrides the Planning and Construction Act in a way that is unreasonable and does not control the situation. On the other hand, he thinks we need to use it now. I can't get it together. The government's view is that we do not need to use this authorisation today. If large numbers of refugees suddenly arrive and the planning conditions of the municipalities are disturbed so fundamentally that they are unable to respond to the situation, such authorisation may be necessary. It was such a situation last autumn when we had the greatest reception of refugees that Sweden has ever had in modern times. This meant that there were major problems to meet the basic needs of those who came to Sweden. On the one hand, Roger Hedlund believes that the legislation is not needed; on the other hand, he believes that it may be necessary to use it now. I can't get the reasoning together.
i-29666732a0ae0025-279	Madam President, I would like It is not my view that these derogations should be introduced. This assessment is made by the government in its memorandum: If there are historically high levels, this may be the case. According to the forecast released by the Migration Agency in April this year, we are at historical levels. So it is not we who say that this is the case, but it is your memorandum that says that it may be the case when that is the case. And it is now according to forecasts. Peter Eriksson believes that the government spends considerable resources on helping people in their neighbourhoods around the world. You're welcome to tell me what the amount is. How much does immigration cost in Sweden, that is, the few we can help here, and how much do we spend on the people who are out there in the world? Most people already know the answer. We spend tens of billions on immigration in Sweden while we spend hundreds of millions on helping the 65 million refugees in need of help in the world, and UNHCR is screaming for money. Let us hope that the decision of the Supreme Court based on civil rights and obligations under Article 6(1) of the ECHR establishes the right to review a building permit. Then we get support so that the government proposal cannot go through. Furthermore, the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness has stated that important societal functions were not able to cope with the efforts of the refugee wave last autumn. The Government also considered that the situation posed a serious threat to public order and internal security in Sweden. Why is the government preparing for a new wave of refugees after your own statement that it threatens internal security and the views of the authorities – that this threatens the fundamental functions of society?
i-29666732a0ae0025-285	Madam President, I would like The government is doing a number of things to increase preparedness for this type of situation. It is not just an authorisation; we have also taken measures aimed at the Finnish Immigration Service and the municipalities. It is about Sweden having to have a better preparedness. To make sure that at all costs, if many people come to Sweden, that they absolutely do not get a roof over their heads and a bed to sleep in is a strange political struggle. I hope that Roger Hedlund will lose that fight, because it is strange and quite inhuman.
i-29666732a0ae0025-287	Madam President, I would like Robert Hannah has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the rental and housing market in Stockholm functions as well as in Brussels. First of all, I would like to point out that the functioning of the housing market differs in each individual country. In Sweden we have a system that has developed for many years. Replacing part of our system with another country's solutions to one specific issue would have many consequences outside the housing market. It is therefore neither appropriate nor possible to directly transfer another country's system to the conditions prevailing in Sweden. Robert Hannah points out that the rental market differs between Brussels and Stockholm. One explanation for this is that Sweden has a general model for leasing regardless of whether the rental apartments are located in public utility housing companies or owned by private property owners. The Swedish system means that we have collectively negotiated rentals between the parties where the rentals reflect the utility value. Belgium has, on the one hand, social rental contracts under so-called social housing for lower-income households and, on the other hand, rental apartments with market-based rentals. According to a report from Housing Europe, the rents in Belgium in the social housing portfolio are on average half of what the market priced rents are. According to the same report, the gender of a rental apartment in the social housing portfolio is long, and tenants in the private rental market spend an increasing share of income on housing. On the other hand, making adjustments to develop our rental system is something we will be working on in order to achieve a better functioning rental housing market throughout the country. The government therefore gave a special assignment to a negotiating party during the spring to make proposals on how the current system of leasing can be developed. A report with proposals for changes that the Tenant Association and Sabo are behind has been submitted to the Government. The third party, Real Estate Owners Sweden, chose to submit the consultation prematurely. The proposals in the report will now be further prepared. As has recently been presented, the government has high ambitions for a better functioning housing market, and we will also propose a number of measures that contribute in this direction.
i-29666732a0ae0025-294	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Housing, for your answer. The Minister for Housing points out that the functioning of the housing market differs in each country. Of course it is. It cannot be more obvious than when you compare Stockholm with Brussels. That is why I wanted to have this interpellation debate – the Minister for Housing has been a Member of the European Parliament in the past. Then let's compare. In Brussels, you can get an apartment almost directly regardless of whether you are a high wage earner or a low wage earner. You can compare with how long it takes for a low-income person to get a home in Stockholm, and then I think the difference between a Stockholmer and a brsselitis– I don't know what they are called – is 13-14 years. According to Numbeo, which is a site that makes comparisons between different countries and cities, rental prices in Brussels are 19.6 per cent lower than in Stockholm, even though they have a freer market. Prices are higher in the closed market. I would like to ask: how long did it take the Minister for Housing to get his place of residence in Brussels? If you look at Stockholm we see today a rental queue with 500 000 people. We have a segregation that in practice means social housing. I am partly raised in a suburb called Gårdsten, where the majority of the population has some kind of subsidy that pays the rent. It is the same in other suburbs in my hometown of Gothenburg – Bishopsgården, Bergsjön and the like – as here in Stockholm. Those who live in apartments here in the city and which the Social Democrats and the Green Party defend so fiercely are both richer and older. Has the Minister of Housing ever seen a 90th-century guy who has a lease on a one or two in the city? There are no 90s who have such contracts. For them, it will take their entire lifetime as long as they have lived to find a place to live. They can't get in line until they're 18. We have a system of black contracts here in Stockholm. We have what I call a Wallströmska housing market – it is the contacts that count, not the days of residence or the opportunities to enter. That means that Indian engineer can't start working at Spotify. We simply have what I would call a collapsed housing market. Prices of dwellings have doubled since 2009, largely because people who want to rent are forced to buy. I'm one of these people. I am a Gothenburger and have had to buy a home here in Stockholm because I do not want to do a Wallström, if you say so. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Housing: Is this the Swedish model that you want to defend and only adjust with the simplifications that the Tenants' Association, but not all the market parties, want? Why are Brussels' rental prices 20% lower than in Sweden, even though they have a free market? From the Liberal side, we are very clear. We have developed a completely new housing policy based on the fact that the number of municipalities with housing shortages has doubled for three years. We see that the market in Brussels is working better. We do not want Brussels' housing market, but we want to move in that direction. We want to make it easier to sublet. V i want to see a developed model for the utility value system, because there is not a single person in Sweden who chooses utility value over location. There isn't-- it's just not like that. We want to see free renting in new production. Like Brussels, we want property rights, because we believe that it will counteract segregation. We also want type-approved residential buildings, which we believe will lead to more housing. The experts are on our side. If you ask the OECD, they say that there are too few people moving between homes. Unemployment has increased by 0.3 per cent due to the housing market. We have the strictest rental system of all OECD countries. The cost of moving and changing homes is highest throughout the OECD. The Swedish housing market is poorly exploited, and many apartments are empty. Everything indicates that it is Stockholm's housing market that does not work compared to Brussels'. We need more influences from there. I wonder what influences the Minister of Housing wants to take with him.
i-29666732a0ae0025-306	Madam President, I would like There are many issues to be addressed in such a discussion. I agree that the housing market in Brussels has pages that are sympathetic. It is easy to get there, and even I quickly got a rental apartment quite central. Then there are other aspects of the system that are less sympathetic, and perhaps that is what Robert Hannah refers to when he says: There are areas in central Brussels that are slumbered and not in good condition at all. There is a strong segregation in Sweden, but if one looks at different areas, I would think that one discovers that it is even stronger in Brussels. Those who are wealthy usually live outside the city. There are other, finer areas also centrally in Brussels, but I think most people live outside the city and travel by car every day if they work inside the centre of Brussels. There are quite cheap housing even in the ordinary rental market, but there is a long queue for the so-called social housing houses, which have really low prices. On the other hand, the Stockholm housing market is very problematic; I certainly agree with that. There is a great shortage of housing, not least rental housing. One explanation is that Robert Hannahs's party The Liberals and some other parties in the bourgeoisie sold out a large number of rental apartments and converted them into residential apartments, which has reduced access to rental housing in the Stockholm region to a large extent. We need rental housing. These are rental housing that those who are here temporarily request for a short period of time. It is primarily rental housing that young people are asking for. There are more such categories. Therefore, I can agree that one effect of removing many rental dwellings is that it will be difficult for young people – 90-talists – to get a place in the housing market. You have to have a decent capital with you from the beginning. One difference between Stockholm and Brussels is that you do not need to have equity to the same extent in order to be able to settle in Brussels. The Government has implemented a series of measures to promote rental housing slightly more in the future and try to contribute to the wider construction of rental housing by municipalities, private property owners and construction companies. I hope that this will help us to have a change with a little more rental housing in the future.
i-29666732a0ae0025-312	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Housing. The Minister of Housing claims that there is a long queue for social housing in Brussels. I wonder: how long are the queues for housing at all in Stockholm? Whether you're rich or poor, new or old, you've been here for a hundred years or you can't get a place to live in Stockholm. There is much talk about those who need to get in quickly and that we in the Alliance would have made it worse. I'm sorry, but it's the rent regulation that makes it difficult. Even if we had the homes that were converted, the housing queue would still have been at least 15 to 20 years here in the city. It was already at that time in the central parts, so that's no excuse. Personally, I think it is a question of good ownership if tenants want to transform their homes, but the government does not make this possible through property rights. We do not want to introduce that. Of course we need more rentals. There's a rift there. But I don't think the government wants to open up for reduced interest rates or review property tax. That is not something that has been pointed out. This is what the Tenant Association points out is the biggest difference – that there are interest deductions for the owned but not for the leased. Is it something that you intend to work on, the Minister for Housing, if you now point out that there is a war between tenancy and tenant-ownership? I don't see it. I see that the Swedish population is in need of housing and that you do everything in your power to get a dwelling, regardless of form. Among other things, I am the mentor of a young boy who has just finished his education. He does not have the amount needed to get a right-of-occupancy apartment, nor does he have the queue days to get a dwelling in the rental system. Both are occupied by the same types of people, that is, wealthy people who can own their homes. You get into the housing queue very early, and once you reach the age, you sell your home quite expensively and take a cheaper rental apartment that here in the city is actually subsidised. It's never going to be that a person chooses utility value over position, that's all. If one is to reform and look at this system, one must see that the problem of a market that is not functioning, which is planned economically, is that the market value is much higher for the apartments in the city and that there will be a great demand that is far above what people are actually paying. Then you see black contracts. Then you can see that certain areas are being slumped. I would argue that there are areas in Sweden that are at least as affected as the areas in Belgium. The two countries that have the most people fighting for ISIL, if you see it as a comparison test, are Belgium and then Sweden. My own hometown Gothenburg has half of those people. If you go to areas like Hjällbo and Hammarkullen, you'd think you're in Saudi Arabia. It is clear that it would be beneficial to liberalise and ensure that the rent levels there were much lower than in the city, to ensure that you could obtain property rights, to make sure that you could sublet without being involved in black contracts so that the mafia are in the process there. There are many things that could be done to ensure that there is a reasonable market in both the suburbs and the inner cities. If you want a system that takes more time to get into a rental agreement than to travel to Pluto, you can continue to act like the Social Democrats and the Green Party do. But if you want a functioning rental market where the Indian engineer can quickly take a job at Spotify and where demand and needs are much more similar, then you have to make sure to make some liberalisations. What the government has proposed will not lead to this, but we will continue to have a rental market that has completely broken down and which leads to higher prices in the owned market, because they belong together – they go hand in hand.
i-29666732a0ae0025-322	Madam President, I would like It sounds to Robert Hannah like he has the solutions. That's fantastic! Then one might be a little cautiously wondering: Why did you not do that during the eight years when you had the chance, when you were in the government and not only in the government but also in the City Hall here in Stockholm? There were enormous opportunities to make changes, and you made some changes. Maybe it's petty to point out, as I did before, that you sold out the condos. Maybe it's a little petty to look at what happened over the eight years. Another thing that happened was that the property tax disappeared. It didn't exactly make it easier for the 90s to buy apartments in Stockholm, I can tell you, but it made the prices run off pretty strong. A number of measures taken during the last parliamentary term contributed greatly to the situation we have today in Stockholm. For example, it was built far too small. Why didn't you increase the construction more during the last parliamentary term? Instead, construction sank. On average, approximately 25 000 homes were built in Sweden during the last parliamentary term. This year the number of settlements started is in the order of 60 000. At that level, we are right now. It makes a huge difference. If you had managed to build 60 000 homes around Sweden during the previous mandates, we would not have had the housing crisis that we have today, but it would have been resolved already. Then I would have been able to sit and roll my thumbs at the Ministry of Industry and just think about all the fine reforms that you did – or I would never have come there, because that's also an opportunity. The situation we have today has been created by the previous government. Now we have a red-green majority in Stockholm City Hall, and they build much more. They make sure that much more is built than before. We have a red-green majority in the Swedish government, and we are trying to resolve the situation instead of aggravating it. That's really the big difference. Then one can have a theoretical reasoning that market rents would have been much better. There are advantages if you had market rents in Sweden. But as I said at the outset: Changing this system, which is a very politicised system, not only in Sweden but in almost every country, is not easy. You cannot transfer such things from one country to another. If we were to carry out market rents as proposed by Robert Hannah today, it would hit a lot of people, not least in the Stockholm region, who would have to move out of their home but from the Stockholm region, because they cannot afford to pay.
i-29666732a0ae0025-331	Madam President, I would like I see here that the Minister of Housing paints a hell of a pit when you introduce free renting in new production. We have 1.4 million rental apartments in Sweden. If 20 000 – 30 000 new rentals with free renting in Sweden were to be added, this would not mean the revolution or the doomsday that the Minister for Housing is talking about. I find it dishonest to even try to paint that picture. In addition, another point needs to be made. I read from an EPSCO report from the European Commission that says that Sweden's housing policy has not worked for the last 20 years. It is not a criticism of the Alliance but of all who have ruled, and it includes your government partner, who has had a majority during that period of time. Liberals have reviewed their housing policy. We did this based on the fact that in just three years the housing shortage has doubled in a number of municipalities in Sweden. This housing shortage did not exist in the same way in the past – it was not as obvious. You can look at the 60,000 homes built last year. Yes, but it was with the Alliance's budget. I do not know why the Minister of Housing takes credit for everything, when it was the Alliance's budget that was in place. The subsidies referred to by the Minister for Housing still do not apply, because they do not comply with EU rules. The homes that would have the subsidies are today completed in Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm, when I have visited them, so the subsidies were not actually needed. The government is taking money from Akademiska Hus. You picked up 5.5 billion from Akademiska Hus, which we from the Liberals wanted to be used to build student housing to solve the student housing shortage. That money you took and spent on subsidies that you have not even been able to get to work, because they do not apply according to EU rules. The residential builders have already acquired the dwellings. The subsidies were obviously not needed. I think you need to look at what the reports of the European Commission and Epscos mean. They say: Stimulating the impact of these rental forms in the Commission's Quest model shows that reforms – more market-oriented rents, not free renting in the whole market – would lead to a 5% increase in the housing stock, an 8.5% increase in investment and a 6% or less increase in prices over the next five years compared with the zero option. It's much better than we have today.
i-29666732a0ae0025-339	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that it was not the case that 60 000 homes were built last year. But this year, in the case of started apartments, we are at a rate of 60,000 homes. That was about 40,000 last year. The year before, when the Alliance ruled, it was a little smaller, and it was even a little smaller the years before then. The need is very great now. These are large children's litters that have now grown up and gone out of universities or are about to do so. They need apartments – not only student housing but apartments in the ordinary market. Apart from the fact that we have had a lot of immigration, it helps us to need a lot more apartments and we need to build a lot in the next few years. However, if Robert Hannahs's Liberal Party had been allowed to continue with the policy that you actually pursued, it would not have been enough to wait until you arrive at Pluto, but I think you could wait until the next solar system before you got an apartment in the Stockholm area, at the pace you had and the policy you conducted.
i-29666732a0ae0025-342	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson has asked me whether I intend to stick to the previously communicated government line and therefore proceed as soon as possible with the decision to release the 700-megahertz band for mobile broadband and to follow the planned timetable and scope of the auction. The Government's focus is that the implementation of the decision on terrestrial TV broadcasting space should continue, so that the evacuation of the 700-megahertz band can take place on time and in as smooth a way as possible for the actors affected. Access to mobile communications is today a prerequisite for living, operating and operating businesses throughout the country. A well-developed mobile infrastructure is important to meet people's desire to use telephony and broadband even outside urban areas and to facilitate entrepreneurship and job creation across the country. The state has an important role in creating good conditions for commercial expansion to continue, including through a well-functioning market and by promoting efficient frequency use as well as regional and local dialogue. The release of the 700-megahertz band for mobile communications services is likely to contribute to creating good conditions for further deployment and access to such services.
i-29666732a0ae0025-346	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answer. I will explain the background to my question. As early as the beginning of 2017, the so-called 700-megahertz band is planned to be released for mobile broadband. This frequency range provides the conditions for improving mobile coverage and capacity for mobile communications across the country. The future use of the 700-megahertz band is an absolute prerequisite for people to be able to live, run a business, participate in teaching, practice culture, have social contacts and feel safe also in the rural areas of our country. The planning of the 700-megahertz band and previous decisions to roll it out in 2017 have obviously created high expectations for a better system of things regarding well-functioning mobile telephony and broadband services also in those parts of the country where the fiber has not yet arrived. The reason I have interceded the Government is that I have noted that there are now demands on the Government to exempt vital parts of the 700-megahertz band from the forthcoming roll-out. Should we begin to exclude vital parts of the 700-megahertz band, one would very quickly dash the hopes of a better and connected life in large parts of our country. That's why I asked the cyber minister: Does the Government intend to adhere to the previously communicated government line and thus proceed as soon as possible with the decision to release the 700-megahertz band for mobile broadband and to follow the planned schedule and scope of the auction? Madam President, I would like I must say that I am very pleased with the answer given by the Minister for Information Technology. In his answer, he says: The Government's focus is that the implementation of the decision on terrestrial TV broadcasting space should be continued, so that the evacuation of the 700 ‐ megahertz band can take place on time and in as smooth a way as possible for the actors affected. ..................................................... He goes on to say in his reply: The State has an important role to play in creating good conditions for commercial expansion to continue, including through a well-functioning market and by promoting efficient frequency use as well as regional and local dialogue. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like With the answer that I have received, I feel confident that previously communicated political line ever since Åsa Torstensson's days, via Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt and Mehmet Kaplan, stands firm, i.e. to make this part of the frequency space available for a more stable and efficient mobile mode of communication throughout our country.
i-29666732a0ae0025-356	Madam President, I would like The interest in the 700-megahertz band is very great from people in the country, and there are many who want to take part in the opportunities it offers. I am very interested that this opportunity to create a good mobile telephony and internet access across the country is being exploited. It would be very unfortunate if we were not able to do so. This is something that I believe is of great benefit to people in rural and sparsely populated areas in particular in the future. Even when it comes to the roll-out of the new technology 5G, there is a great deal of dependence on these issues. I assume that we will resolve the conflicts of interest that may exist in this area. As I see it, the opportunities are great even for others to meet their needs in the best way.
i-29666732a0ae0025-359	Madam President, I would like I just want to reiterate that I feel confident with the response given by the Government that the previously communicated political line stands firm in terms of frequency space for functioning mobile telephony and functioning mobile broadband for the benefit of people's exchanges with each other and the conditions to be able to live a normal life throughout our country and the common ambition that I as a center party feel that Peter Eriksson as a representative of the government shares. I am very happy about that.
i-29666732a0ae0025-360	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson has asked me whether I believe that the housing shortage in Stockholm County has been a factor in the distribution of some newly arrived immigrants, or whether it has been ignored. Erik Andersson has also asked me if I will take the initiative for some relief in the Planning and Construction Act so that it can be possible for municipalities where there is a housing shortage to meet, among other things, the law's requirements for the distribution of new arrivals. In order to improve the establishment of new arrivals in the labour market and in society, a new law has been introduced, the Act(2016:38) on the reception of certain newly arrived immigrants for residence and associated regulations, which obliges all municipalities to receive new arrivals for residence upon instructions. The new rules entered into force on 1 March 2016. The distribution of instructions between municipalities must take into account the labour market conditions of the municipality, the size of the population, the total reception of newly arrived and unaccompanied minors and the extent of asylum seekers staying in the municipality. The government determines the distribution at county level in the decree(2016:40) on the distribution of instructions to municipalities. The county administrative boards then decide on the distribution between municipalities within the county based on the county figures. The county administrative boards may then take into account the municipalities' ability to provide housing. The government has taken a number of decisions to make it faster, easier and cheaper to build housing. We have shortened the appeal process, presented a new noise regulation, invested in energy efficient and climate-smart rental properties and launched the largest housing investment in over 20 years. Already this year, housing construction is expected to be the largest since the early 1990s. The housing shortage is spread throughout the country and has more causes than the housing needs of newly arrived immigrants. The Government's ambition is to continue to push for simplified building regulations and faster construction processes on a broad front. As has recently been presented, the government has high ambitions for a better functioning housing market and will propose a number of measures that contribute to this direction. The so-called Migration Agreement, which took place in response to the refugee crisis, includes, inter alia, the following actions: Temporary reductions in planning and building regulation shall be implemented. A review shall be carried out in order to simplify requirements for buildings constructed or occupied with fixed-term building permits. A review shall also be carried out of the possibility to re-habilize apartments, which are currently used for other purposes, without the need for new building requirements to be applied. Several other measures are currently under consideration within the Government Office to ensure that the need for housing can be met, including by ensuring that the regulatory framework is properly designed in relation to the needs of municipalities.
i-29666732a0ae0025-366	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. But the question remains: How does the government expect the municipalities around the country, especially in Stockholm County, to be able to arrange housing for all new arrivals? My question to the Minister for Housing was whether he has taken account of the housing shortage and the distribution of new arrivals or whether he has ignored it. I can give a little background and tell the Minister of Housing what it looks like here in Stockholm, given that the Minister of Housing has been living in Brussels for a long time. Does the Minister of Housing know how many people are in line to get a home in Stockholm? There are 537 000 applicants for housing. Of course, not everyone in the queue lacks a dwelling, but it says quite a lot about the pressure to get a new dwelling. When I last looked at Stockholm City's housing agency, there were 140 vacant apartments. Then the question is: What advice does the Minister of Housing have for those seeking housing? Does the Minister of Housing know how many students are waiting for a home in Sweden? We have 367 000 enrolled students, and there are 85 000 vacant student apartments. When I last looked, there were only 18 vacant student apartments at SSB. It's a disaster! When I looked at how many flats were available for sale in Stockholm County, there were only 2 179. Of course the calculation doesn't make sense. My conclusion from this is that there was an acute housing shortage in parts of Sweden, and particularly here in Stockholm, even before the distribution was made according to the new law. When it comes to the distribution of new arrivals to Stockholm County, it looks as follows. There will be quite a lot of figures now, but I think it is good for the Minister of Housing to get this background in his job as new Minister of Housing. In 2015, 2,508 were received in the county. In 2016, municipalities in the county will receive 6,689 persons. Already in 2015 they managed to get the number of apartments required, and for 2016 2.6 times more than in 2015. For 2017, there are estimated to be 9 800 people, which is four times more, and in 2018 it can be up to 12 250 people. That's five times more than in 2015. We thus end up with a sum of 31,247 people, which is as many people as in a medium-sized municipality in Sweden. It is three times larger than Nykvarn, Salem or Vaxholm here in Stockholm County. Distributing municipalities according to the number of vacant dwellings is not helpful because there is a shortage of housing in all Stockholm municipalities. The big problem, as I see it, is that it is the same old planning and construction teams that apply. There are no new tools for municipalities. On the other hand, the state has arranged for this and is in the process of developing new legislation in which the state may, in emergency situations, make exceptions to the Planning and Construction Act. As I understand it, however, the municipalities do not have that possibility. It is understandable in itself that such legislation should be developed in view of the chaos that was last autumn, but why not also allow the municipalities to have the tools to comply with the new Act of Notification? Is such work going on, or do you pass the housing problem on to the municipalities? The calculations do not add up, and the Minister of Housing knows as well as I do how long it takes to produce a detailed plan.
i-29666732a0ae0025-378	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson reads about the housing shortage in Stockholm County. On the other hand, I can tell you that this is not something specific to Stockholm. There has been a housing shortage in Stockholm for a very long time, but now we have a housing shortage in 250 of the country's 290 municipalities. It is therefore a national problem, and we need to take measures that apply across the country if we are to manage housing issues. We need to build a lot more. Now we have done so, and we are actually beginning to reach levels that are significantly higher than before in terms of housing construction. I also believe that we will need to do more to exploit the existing housing stock, perhaps especially in large cities, more than we have done in the past. Although there is a tight house in parts of Sweden, we have on average more space per person than in most other countries. Can we create situations that a little more benefit those who rent out part of their apartment or villa – and maybe rebuild so that it fits well– I think it can be part of a solution overall. However, we must use many different tools. It is clear that the rules we have in the Planning and Construction Act make it take too long to build. It creates problems when you need to take action as quickly as you do today. But it is also the case that it is different; if we look around in different municipalities in Sweden we see that it looks in different ways. In Moderate-led Växjö, for example, they have had good planning and worked to ensure that it will be built. The rules that exist have been used proactively, and a lot has been built. It has succeeded in increasing the population and building in a way that enables people, far better than in many other municipalities, to meet the needs that exist. In Täby, as Erik Andersson knows well, they have had a decent construction. However, new immigrants have not been received before. However, it has now begun to do so after the new law was introduced, which means that we are making demands of all municipalities to be involved in taking responsibility, and I am pleased that Täby has started to do so. In the case of other municipalities, such as Lidingö, we seem less interested in ensuring that we have a solution and in building at the pace needed to meet the increased needs we have in the big cities. So there is a great deal of difference. Today, in the City of Stockholm, much more is being done to build and ensure that we are able to meet the needs that exist. But I agree that urbanisation in Sweden is very strong and that, in addition to the population growth we have, it creates special problems for metropolitan areas. It is also the case that in big cities the best labour markets exist, so the need to build and resolve the conflict with a lack of housing is very great. But a short-term solution may not be to remove the Planning and Construction Act.
i-29666732a0ae0025-383	Madam President, I would like It is interesting to hear the Minister for Housing discussing what to do. I agree with the fact that various packages of measures are needed to bring about more housing. However, given the situation we are facing today, the issue of regulatory simplification in the PBL does not become less acute simply because more municipalities have a housing shortage. Instead, it becomes even more important to make a certain change and introduce relief in the PBL. In two years, 250 000 asylum seekers have arrived, and it is clear that this creates a lot of problems for the municipalities. If the state had a crisis last autumn, it is the municipalities that will have a crisis in the future, because it is they who will arrange the housing. Therefore, regulatory simplifications are required. The other measures I believe can be taken to enable more housing is about optimizing housing. For example, you can increase the flat rate for second-hand rentals. I think that is a good idea. The fact that the amount of the deferral can be made freely is also a good proposal which would increase the rotation. There are therefore a lot of proposals, but precisely at this point in time – in the acute situation – housing needs to be provided for the new arrivals that the state has assigned to the municipalities. Then it does not really help with just such measures. It's an emergency right now. The second is one that can be arranged in the longer term. The Minister of Housing said that Täby has not received so many immigrants. Then I can tell the Minister for Housing that 15% to 16% of the inhabitants of Täby are immigrants, which is just like the means of the whole country. So I do not understand where he has been given that task. As for the changes that have been made to bring relief to the Planning and Construction Act, the Moderates have brought the government before them. I think it is weak that there has not been a single decision to make it easier for the municipalities to build. We need housing right now. The proposal to amend the Planning and Construction Act referred to by the Minister for Housing gives the government the opportunity to make provision for exceptions to the Planning and Construction Act in order for housing to be arranged quickly. My point is that the municipalities are facing exactly the same problem, that they must be able to arrange accommodation now. In my municipality of residence Täby, to which the Minister of Housing referred, we have been able to arrange accommodation for 2015. It is from 2016 that we face major problems. Under the current legislation, it is not possible to build apartments, as there are no planned plots. Planning plots takes at least two years. The average time to get a detailed plan from idea to finished dwelling can be up to ten years in view of all the lead processes that exist. The exemptions granted to the state should also be granted to the municipalities. This could be a way for municipalities to apply for derogations to build temporary dwellings. It is, of course, simple housing that this legislation provides for. The simple housing should therefore be able to be moved. Otherwise, municipalities will find it very difficult to meet the requirements of the law. According to PBL today, the construction of a coherent settlement requires a detailed plan. On detailed plots you may be able to build two, possibly five, homes, but that doesn't help.
i-29666732a0ae0025-392	Madam President, I would like As we announced last week, we have a series of measures aimed at simplifying the Planning and Construction Act to make construction faster, more efficient and cheaper. I think Erik Andersson can really be very pleased with that focus. We are also looking at the possibilities of using temporary solutions to meet the demand for housing that will be very large during especially 2017-2018, if you are going to meet the need for housing for the new arrivals. We will see what concrete measures are being taken. But we from the government are now working as much as possible to solve the problem. I would also like to point out that this is a lot about the municipalities themselves. Do the municipalities a proactive work that involves preparing, that there is land and that you plan areas and if there are actors in the market who want to build, yes, then they are prepared. Then it goes much faster and easier than if you as a municipality sit and wait for something to happen.
i-29666732a0ae0025-395	Madam President, I would like No, I am not satisfied with the fact that these reliefs in the PBL apply only to the state and not to the municipalities. The Minister of Housing should find out more facts before he says that the municipalities are not working proactively. This law came suddenly, so it is quite difficult for the municipalities to plan in detail based on it. Given that it can take up to ten years to get a detailed plan, one must almost be Minister of the Future – who no longer exists – in order to find out. The municipalities want to be proactive. They have tried different ideas, for example, to set up modular housing, which in itself is not good at all. That's when alienation areas are built. But if there isn't housing, there isn't. Then you have to solve it somehow. But the government says no. Municipalities cannot build modular dwellings on land that is not planned in detail. Then you ask for the exception in the PBL, but that does not apply. The state makes it very easy for itself with exceptions in a crisis situation. But the municipalities are now facing the crisis that the state had last autumn. They need to get housing. The risk is that the municipalities will not be able to obtain housing, and it will not be possible to distribute new arrivals to the municipalities. Instead, they will have to stay at the Finnish Immigration Service's accommodation, which is not at all a good solution for entering a society. Finally, the Minister of Housing said earlier that it has never been as large a building as it is now. Then I would like to say to the Minister for Housing that since it takes so long – particularly long lead times – to obtain housing, a large part of these detailed plans have been established during the time of the Alliance Government and in alliance-led municipalities. But I don't think we should worry about who's built the most. Instead, let us make sure that we can increase the construction and that the Green Party approves more construction around Sweden. Thank you for the floor, and happy summer!
i-29666732a0ae0025-401	Madam President, I would like I think the Green Party is doing quite a lot. Red-green municipalities are starting much more construction than before and are planning for more construction in the future. I can send the ball back by saying that it would be good if the moderate-led municipalities also stood up. This also applies to municipalities such as Lidingö and Täby. Täby has taken greater responsibility than Lidingö. I don't want to do this either. The whole of Sweden must gather around this issue in order to manage housing for the people who have come here and for the young people who need apartments. I am well aware that a lot of municipalities are doing their very best and manage to deal with the situation despite rather complicated rules. Despite the need for changes, they will not always be able to be implemented directly, but it takes some time because we have a device with investigations and other things to be reviewed before a change of law comes into place. However, there are opportunities – and this shows, among other things, Växjö – if you have good preparedness and good planning. Then it is possible to increase the construction when needed. It is not just a government issue, it is also a matter for the municipalities.
i-29666732a0ae0025-405	Madam President, I would like Mr Rothenberg has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation how the government in trade relations with Iran intends to denounce democratic abuses and to promote the development of the country where human rights and women's rights are more respected. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I agree with Mr Rothenberg that the human rights situation in Iran is serious. This is something that this government has consistently addressed in bilateral talks with Iran. This took place during a visit to Tehran by Minister Damberg in December, Minister Baylan in April and recently by several representatives of the Government in connection with Minister for Foreign Affairs Zarifs's visit to Stockholm on 1 June. During that visit, it was also agreed that Sweden and Iran should initiate a structured political dialogue, including human rights. I started a Swedish-Iranian Business Forum together with Minister for Foreign Affairs Zarif in connection with the visit and then raised the importance of CSR issues, including workers' rights. Human rights including women's human rights, freedom from discrimination, trade union rights and the death penalty were some of the issues raised in the dialogue. These issues are also addressed in the EU-Iran dialogue. Women's human rights are examples of something the government is pushing in line with feminist foreign policy. I will continue to pursue the same issues vis-à-vis Iran in my role as EU and trade ministers. There is great potential for increased political and economic engagement with Iran given the nuclear agreement and sanction relief. In order to promote the relationship, the government has recently made it possible for Business Sweden to open a trading office in Tehran. Increased trade and increased contacts with Iran benefit the Swedish economy and employment, while at the same time having a positive impact on developments in Iran. Sweden's presence in difficult markets is important for openness and relationship building. The Government's export strategy goes hand in hand with the sustainable enterprise strategy that contributes to more open societies and improved human rights in the long term. It is important to point out that Iran also benefits from guaranteeing the protection of women's human rights. Iran has a large and growing young population, and the majority of university graduates are women. It is therefore in Iran's own interest to make it easier for women to enter the labour market. The government sees significant opportunities to develop our economic cooperation with Iran while continuing our political dialogue and work towards an improved human rights situation in Iran.
i-29666732a0ae0025-411	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for European Affairs and Trade. Welcome to a debate in the Swedish Parliament Chamber! It's the first time, but it's not the last time. I can promise you that. The issue of trade relations with Iran is quite new. This country, located in the middle of the old Silk Road trade route, has been away from traditional trade routes for about 40 years. The reason is that Iran is and has been a totalitarian state that has violated human rights and international civilised relations in many ways. Many people have fled Iran. Millions of people live outside the borders of the country. If the Iranians living outside Iran were to form their own state, it would be a normal-sized European state with about 5 to 8 million inhabitants. Since January trade sanctions have now been released. After agreement on an agreement on nuclear sanctions, opportunities have been opened up for the outside world to trade with Iran. It has thus opened up great opportunities for Sweden. With the Iranian diaspora that is around the world and with the many Iranians that exist in Sweden, this can be a fantastic opening. But nothing has really changed with regard to human rights in this country. Nothing has changed in terms of freedom of expression, women's opportunities to act on equal terms and LGBTQ people's opportunities to be respected and not to have to be sentenced to death if they show their disposition. The death penalty is a reality in Iran, and it is being used against people who do not turn out to have the same values as the ruling government. Madam President, I would like Iran can become a very good trading partner for Sweden, but it does not happen by itself. Trade is the common language of the world. We do not need to speak English, farsi or Swedish with each other. By dealing with one another, we understand that we must benefit from one another. It does not work to be unpleasant, cocky and generally repugnant if you want to do business. There will be no business of this. Trade has been able to open up opportunities at all times, not only to do business, but also to a good association between peoples, nations and peoples. Now Sweden has the opportunity to go in the front line. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister for Trade: what questions were raised during Minister for Foreign Affairs Zarifs's visit to Sweden in addition to the status of women? Did you bring up freedom of expression? Did you bring up the status of LGBT people? Did you raise the death penalty? Is this on the agenda for the upcoming talks? What is the government's plan for action against the Iranian regime? How are we to manage to maintain and develop a civilised trade relationship while at the same time being able to conduct a democratic dialogue that leads anywhere? It can't just be words.
i-29666732a0ae0025-419	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Rothenberg very much for the interpellation. It is true that the human rights situation in Iran is very serious and that there are few signs that it is improving. The government takes the situation seriously. MR is always addressed in Swedish official contacts with Iran. The sanctions imposed by the EU in response to the human rights abuses in Iran are fixed and are not affected by the nuclear agreement. I expect Swedish companies to follow the guidelines put forward by the government in the action plan for entrepreneurship and human rights. In order to monitor the human rights situation in Iran, Sweden has pushed for human rights in various UN bodies, including the Human Rights Council and the General Assembly's third committee. Sweden is part of the core group of countries that have been working for several years to extend the mandate of Special Rapporteur Ahmed Shaheed as long as the human rights situation in Iran justifies it. Mr Rothenberg asked how we dealt with the various cases and how we dealt with human rights. We raise individual cases with the Iranian Government both through the EU and bilaterally. In Iran, it is currently the Netherlands that acts as local EU President and brings joint EU démarches to the Iranian Foreign Ministry and the judiciary. Persons sentenced to death are among the individual cases that are prioritised by the EU. I can take a concrete example. When Minister Zarifs's delegation was here, a list of trade union activists sentenced to long prison sentences was submitted. The list came from LO, TCO, the Transport Workers' Association and the Teacher Association. It is a typical example of how we can act concretely in individual cases.
i-29666732a0ae0025-424	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Let me read in front of Amnesty International's latest annual report on Iran: a strong restriction on freedom of expression, association and assembly, arresting and imprisonment journalists, human rights defenders, trade unionists and other dissidents on vague and overly general accusations. Torture and other forms of abuse of prisoners remained common and could be carried out without the risk of reckoning; conditions in prisons were difficult. Defective trials continued, in some cases with death sentences as a result. ..................................................... The authorities continue to restrict freedom of expression, which is in fact the basis of all the other freedoms. If you cannot say what you think, feel and want, there are many other things you also limit. One restricts one's freedom of action and association. You basically limit your own personality. Torture and abuse are commonplace. There are many Iranians in Sweden who can testify to what these conditions have been like throughout the ages and that they have not changed much either. In combination with inadequate trials, it becomes an untenable situation. Let's stay a little bit on women's rights! Women are worth less than men under Iranian law. There are two women on a man. In a trial, two female witnesses are required to answer a male witness. It is as far from equality and Swedish values as we can get. The fact that women are highly educated in Iran is not the same as the fact that they will have better opportunities to develop. We can compare with another country that is well advanced in terms of the status of women in the education market, namely South Korea. Women are best educated there, but their career ends at the age of 27-30, and unfortunately they never return. So, unfortunately, high levels of education are not a guarantee of this. I would also like to say something about the situation of LGBT people. A person who comes out as a homosexual in Iran will not be homosexual for very long, because he will be sentenced to death. This means that people are fleeing the country. This is a reality for probably more than a tenth of Iran's population. Here we need to push wisely to change Iran's mind and, above all, to understand. A change must be preceded by understanding. There we need to work internationally. It is very good that the government is addressing these issues. It is good that trade unions and other interest groups are on track. But I think there's more to it. There is a need for international cooperation. Sweden needs to act in arm hook with other EU countries, other Western countries and other countries around the world. After all, we are only 10 million of the world's 7 billion, and Iran has 80 to 90 million inhabitants. We're a small player, but together we can get stronger. I would like to hear the Minister's answer: how will Sweden operate internationally and in cooperation with others in order to achieve success on these issues, because it must not take 15 to 20 years?
i-29666732a0ae0025-434	Madam President, I would like As I just mentioned in my previous answer, Sweden is not only working nationally with these questions. I fully agree with Mr Rothenberg that it makes you much stronger if you do it together. In addition to addressing issues bilaterally, we work very much in the EU. We have a common order in which we send démarches, for example, to protest against the death penalty and to raise issues of torture, persecution of LGBT people, imprisonment of activists and so on. Moreover, I believe that trade in itself is important in driving positive developments in the world. The growing international presence in Iranian business and society alone increases expectations of the Iranian authorities to respect human rights, but also to promote legal and transparent institutions, which is an important basis for trade. The prolonged isolation of Iran has primarily benefited conservative groups in Iranian society who have been able to protect their power and portray the outside world as hostile. Now we see that other forces in Iranian society welcome an increased international exchange and especially with the Western world and countries such as Sweden. I will also say something about the issue of women and women's situation and how it goes with our feminist foreign policy. I am convinced that the increased exposure of Iranian society to the outside world can help to improve the situation of women. We also address the situation of women together with the trade union activists and political activists. It is a movement in the right direction when it comes to women's equality in Iran. The level of education is high. Approximately 60% of university students are women. With his example of South Korea, Hans Rothenberg showed that this does not always lead to an overall improvement. Nevertheless, I think it is a positive thing and not a negative thing that more and more women are getting a high level of education. It is also important for us that Swedish companies in Iran follow Swedish values. I expect Swedish companies in Iran to hire and promote women. I also believe that it is a positive signal that Sweden is now receiving a new extremely highly qualified female ambassador in Tehran who can push these issues in line with feminist foreign policy.
i-29666732a0ae0025-440	Madam President, I would like There are many things that need to be changed in Iran in order for it to become a country on an equal footing with European countries. Corruption is a serious factor preventing a lot of trade. In the handbook New situation for Swedish business in Iran that Business Sweden has developed, it is believed that corruption is so serious that it harms the economy as a whole, and thus also harms the countries that trade with Iran and also Sweden. Iran is now not entering a new stage alone. There are other countries that are also next, such as Cuba. It is important that we use trade as a tool to increase the opportunities for increased prosperity and prosperity in those countries, but also to be able to influence their development in a democratic and humanitarian direction. We know that simple polite phrases are not enough. We have seen this in relations with China and Saudi Arabia. This is where we need a powerful moment. Yes, women are highly educated in Iran. But it is still a fact that if a married woman, however well educated, wants to go to another country and needs to apply for a visa, she cannot get it unless her husband has signed this visa application. It is an example of how the situation is. I would like to ask the Minister a question in my last speech. The report that Business Sweden has written says nothing about the issues that we have discussed about human rights, democracy, the death penalty and LGBT people's conditions. Does the Minister want Business Sweden to work harder on this? In that case, we are waiting for a new edition.
i-29666732a0ae0025-444	Madam President, I would like The human rights situation in Iran is serious, just as Mr Rothenberg has given several examples. This is something that the government has consistently addressed in the bilateral talks with Iran. The Government's export strategy also goes hand in hand with the sustainable entrepreneurship strategy that contributes to more open societies and improved human rights. But that work takes time. Issues such as human rights, women's rights and trade union rights are addressed in the EU-Iran dialogue directly. I will continue to pursue the same issues vis-à-vis Iran in my role as EU and trade ministers. It is in line with feminist foreign policy. The government is convinced that trade and international exchange generally contribute to a positive development in the world. With an increased international presence in Iranian business and society, expectations for the Iranian authorities to respect human rights, but also to promote legal and transparent institutions as an important basis for trade. The long isolation of Iran has benefited the conservative groups in society. Now we see that other forces welcome an increased international exchange. We also welcome it in Sweden. We should actively play a role in promoting human rights around the world. I am absolutely convinced that Business Sweden is pursuing human rights issues in general. I haven't read the report yet because I just received it. I'll read it, but I haven't done it yet. I am absolutely convinced that Business Sweden is pursuing such issues as trade union rights, women's rights and, not least, LGBTQ rights.
i-29666732a0ae0025-449	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me three questions about the pesticide glyphosate: Has the Minister of the Environment acted to ensure that the European Commission continues to approve glyphosate after the current approval expires on 30 June 2016? Has the Minister of the Environment maintained the principle of scientific support in negotiations concerning glyphosate? Has the Minister of the Environment adopted new principles for the Swedish position on issues relating to restrictions on hazardous substances, and what are these principles? The legislation on plant protection products is harmonised by the EU by Regulation 1107/ 2009 concerning the placing on the market of plant protection products. In order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, an active substance may only be authorised if the substance or product has no adverse effects on human or animal health and does not have an unacceptable effect on the environment. The criteria for that examination are set out in an annex to the Regulation. Furthermore, approval decisions are taken on the basis of the review report, other factors relevant to the issue under consideration and the precautionary principle. The Swedish Government supports the European Commission's proposal for a temporary extension of the current approval. This means, inter alia, that the European Chemicals Agency, ECHA, the assessment of the carcinogenic properties of glyphosate and the need for a harmonised classification are completed before the renewal of the authorisation is considered.
i-29666732a0ae0025-455	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The plant-killing agent glyphosate was discovered in 1970 by chemist John Franz. Since then, it has been used worldwide under a variety of brands, including because glyphosate is considered to be less toxic than, for example, chlorinated compounds used in the past. It should be said at an early stage that an effective chemicals policy always encourages and encourages the substitution of dangerous substances. If a chemical in a product can be replaced in a practical way with a less harmful variant, it should be replaced. It is called the substitution principle, and I am pleased that we have broad, cross-block support for this also to be widely implemented. It is a rather progressive approach, which, with small steps, brings us closer to the environmental quality objective of a non-toxic environment. The principle of substitution is desirable in that the consequences are relatively easy to understand. A total ban on a particular substance may in the worst case lead to its substitution with an even more dangerous substance – from bisphenol A to bisphenol F or similar. Madam President, I would like In 2015, glyphosate was classified by IARC as being probably carcinogenic, although several previous studies could not show a causal relationship. Following the reclassification of the IARC, both Efsa and the FAO have produced reports that glyphosate poses neither chronic nor acute risks nor is carcinogenic. It is in particular the assessments of the two latter bodies that previously formed the basis for the Swedish position when Sweden negotiated restrictions on dangerous substances within the European Union. That's reasonable. Many organisations and individuals are pushing questions about total bans based on a, in my opinion, often rather self-defined precautionary principle. However, the legislator should have its main focus on evidence-based policies when reviewing restrictions. Otherwise, we will soon be in danger of standing without both plant protection products and vegetable crops. Madam President, I would like That's why I've put this interpellation. The Green Party has long been quite positive about a ban on glyphosate. The current Minister for Housing and former MEP Peter Eriksson, who was just in the Chamber, called on the government, as late as 24 February this year, to oppose the proposal for an extension of approval. I therefore welcome the fact that, in connection with this interpellation, the Swedish Government has stated its support for the European Commission's proposal for a temporary extension of the current approval. Of course, ECHA should also make its assessment – there's nothing strange about it. Madam President, I would like However, since there seems to be some consensus on this question, I would like to ask a closely related question: is there a will from the Swedish Government to, if glyphosate is allowed to extend its authorisation within the Union, instead introduce national restrictions on the subject?
i-29666732a0ae0025-462	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to note once again that there is broad support for both the principle of substitution and the precautionary principle in this House and also between Parliament and the government. It is important that we have a broad basis. As regards both this and other subjects, it is, and has always been, the government's position that decisions should have a scientific basis. That is why we are now supporting the temporary two-year extension for this subject. It provides the opportunity for the European Chemicals Agency to submit a report. So we have the go-ahead from certain parts of the European system, but we are waiting for a very important report. Two years is a reasonable time for the report to arrive and we will have the opportunity to analyse it and then take a joint decision. The government's position is that this issue should be resolved above all at European level, and that is why we have close interaction with other Member States and close communication with the Commission on this issue. The fact that the Commission is now proposing a temporary extension can be seen as an expression of uncertainties about glyphosate. We must take these uncertainties very seriously. As I said, that is why we think it is good that the Commission has adjusted its proposal on the basis of the original nine years. It has adapted and approached Member States' concerns about the issue. We will continue to participate actively in the discussion, and we will maintain our position that all decisions should be taken on a sound scientific basis.
i-29666732a0ae0025-467	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for that answer. As the Government mentions, Swedish chemicals policy is in many ways at the forefront. But that has not always been the case. Let's look back a little bit and see how it was not that long ago at all. In the newly industrialized Sweden, for example, the factories grew larger and larger. Soon we learned that soot and ash rained from the chimneys. What did we do? We built the chimneys higher, and then we built them even higher when the neighboring town complained that they were now the ones who got soot and ashes in the yard. Finally, we had built the chimneys so high that the soot and ash spread over such a large area that some of the harbours were located in Finland or Norway. But the problem was solved for us. We have come quite a long way since then. Just a few years ago, we believed that high dose exposure to endocrine disruptors was by far the most dangerous. With today's knowledge, we know that prolonged low-dose exposure can be at least as dangerous. What does this show? The chemical debate is quite dynamic. New findings, new knowledge and new innovations mean that the playing field is constantly a bit mobile at the edges. These are both positive and negative effects of chemicals. It should be made clear that while we see the risks of, for example, bioaccumulative toxins in our food or endocrine disruptors in toys, we must keep in mind that it is chemicals that will give us better batteries for our electric cars and that will make the processes in the treatment plants even better. Madam President, I would like Sweden is well ahead and will continue to be a beacon for an effective, evidence-based and well-functioning chemicals policy. Swedish chemicals policy should be based on the substitution principle and focus on the environmental quality objective of a non-toxic environment. As in other policy areas, economic instruments are an important factor. There, initiatives have been taken by governments of different colours. Add to this that, as far as possible, restrictions should be imposed at EU level following trials to ensure that there is no danger to humans and the environment. When this is not the case, you should not let the prohibition rule take over. I hope that the government will stick to this even in the case of glyphosate.
i-29666732a0ae0025-474	Madam President, I would like Once again, I can see that there is a common vision broadly rooted in Swedish policy that Sweden should pursue an active chemicals policy both at national level and, not least, at EU level. It is worth remembering the significant role that Sweden played in developing the common chemicals policy in the EU – REACH. The government is now active in the initiative called REACH up, where we interact with those Member States that share our view of an active and progressive chemicals policy. We want a revision and we want to ensure that European chemicals policy, as the honourable Member describes, keeps up with and follows the developments that exist. The principles laid down must be actively followed, both as regards the principle of substitution and as regards the precautionary principle. The decisions taken shall be taken on a scientific basis. The discussion on glyphosate has been very dynamic. I very much welcome the commitment that exists among citizens who are concerned and among organisations that address these concerns. This has contributed to the progress of the conversation. We now have a position in which the Commission and the Member States are close together, and we hope to see a solution to this issue soon.
i-29666732a0ae0025-477	Madam President, I would like As there seems to be a consensus on this issue, I leave the final contribution to the Minister for the Environment. We can then move on to the next debate on another important subject.
i-29666732a0ae0025-478	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by repeating that chemicals are a top priority for the government. They are constantly changing, partly because there are new substances on the market, and partly because knowledge about their use and impact on humans and animals is constantly updated. It is a solid task to follow this development of knowledge and adapt policy decisions accordingly.
i-29666732a0ae0025-479	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me whether I believe that a ban on bisphenol A in two-component epoxy used in re-treatment of drinking water pipes is justified and whether it is a particular priority area. The use of the chemical bisphenol A is extensive, and the substance has several health and environmental hazards. Its classification as toxic to reproduction, that is to say, it has harmful effects on reproductive performance and foetuses, has recently been increased to the second highest step. Studies have shown that bisphenol A is endocrine disrupting already at low doses. These properties individually classify bisphenol A as a particularly dangerous substance. Furthermore, new studies that have not been included in either the EU's or Sweden's previous assessment show that bisphenol A has effects on the immune system. As a result, the EU has set up a new working group to examine these effects. The Parliament has decided on an intermediate target for particularly dangerous substances, which states that these should be phased out. Measures against bisphenol A are also taken at EU level. Among other things, a proposal for a ban on bisphenol A is currently under discussion in thermopaper used for, among other things, receipts. France also proposes to include bisphenol A on the K Andidate list for REACH. Small children are particularly sensitive to endocrine disruptors. It is therefore important to reduce their exposure to bisphenol A as far as possible. The Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, Boverket and the Swedish Food Authority have jointly proposed a national ban on the use of two component epoxy containing bisphenol A. The report by the authorities showed, as Mrs Skalberg Karlsson says, that there is no risk of drinking water if the discharge is done correctly. But the report also shows that, in many cases, the relaying is not done properly, and then Bisphenol A leaks from the pipes to the water. In addition, drinking water is defined in these tests as cold water, not hot water or cooled hot water. A child exposed to such large quantities of bisphenol A that there is actually a risk when he or she wakes up or porridge made from lukewarm tap water. This is clear in the report. The public must be alerted to the fact that cold water must always be flushed into the tap, but we also need to ban certain uses of dangerous substances for precautionary reasons. Bisphenol A is an example of this. The Swedish industry, which emerges from the interpellation, has quite rightly phased out this use. However, the two-component epoxy method still exists in other countries, including our neighbour Denmark. There is therefore a risk that a Danish firm could be hired and that it uses bisphenol A in two compon entsepoxi when relining drinking water pipes in Sweden. The report of the Agency has been referred, and a clear majority of the referral bodies are in favour of a ban on the use of bisphenol A in relineing with two component epoxy. The Government has notified the Commission of its intention to introduce a national ban. No serious objections have been raised. In other words, the proposal is prepared both in Sweden and within the EU. Preparation is currently under way in the Government Office. My answer is therefore: yes, it is both justified and prioritised to ban bisphenol A in two-component epoxy when relining drinking water pipes.
i-29666732a0ae0025-488	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Chemicals policy is essentially common within the European Union. I am pleased to hear that. In a report that the House discussed a few weeks ago, the Environmental Code and EU chemicals legislation etc., the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture states that chemicals legislation is now essentially contained in common EU regulations. If that is the committee's agreement, and that is a good thing. At macro level, chemicals policy is moving in the right direction. Many countries are actively working on the REACH Regulation, and Sweden is one of the countries that are part of the Reach up working group that aims to further develop REACH. A common chemicals policy will improve the functioning of the internal market. It is desirable. This makes cross-border trade easier. We can take a Swedish furniture manufacturer as an example. The company might want to export a dining table to Italy. Is this to be prevented by the fact that we have different rules for, for example, flame retardants in the countries of the Union when fire works in the same way everywhere? No, these are exactly the kind of thresholds we're going to work to grind down. Just as the EU is by far our best environmental organisation, it is also our best tool for promoting free trade. In addition, it is good for the entire Union's growth and environmental work when Sweden can export environmentally smart solutions to other countries. I have visited several companies in Sweden that manufacture plastics that contain significantly lower levels of hazardous substances than the foreign counterparts. It would be regrettable if this environmental benefit could not be taken into account in other countries of the Union as well. Madam President, I would like As Minister Skog mentions, there are several initiatives at EU level to limit bisphenol A. That's good. International cooperation, such as the EU, is crucial for tackling restrictions on dangerous substances. Why? Because even if we ban a substance in Sweden, it reaches us. Chemicals rarely care about land borders. As long as we share water with other countries, their emissions will adversely affect us. The EU is the right level for regulating dangerous substances when global agreements such as the Minamata Convention do not reach all the way. I would like to take this opportunity to say clearly that dangerous substances should be restricted. Some of them are to be banned, and children are to be protected in particular. However, when European expert authorities such as Efsa establish that the current level of exposure of BPA is harmless for all age groups, I doubt whether national bans will lead the EU to follow suit. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: why does the government go forward with niche, small and fundamentally questionable bans with quite little influence when, instead, it could work towards the whole of Europe to bring about strong restrictions throughout the Union? If you had chosen the latter option, you would have had a resolute support across the block line. As the Minister himself mentions in his interpellation response, this ban would be more effective if it were introduced in Denmark.
i-29666732a0ae0025-495	Madam President, I would like There is a clear common view that chemicals policy should be driven, above all, at EU level, and the focus of the government's work is that it should be constantly moving forward. However, the European harmonised regulatory framework allows national derogations where there are national specific reasons for this. The problem is unique to Sweden in terms of relining, because we have a system of central water heating in apartment buildings, which means that the water travels much further through the pipes and more bisphenol A in this way can leak out from pipes to water. In other countries there are water heaters in each apartment, which does not cause this problem. This is the reason that we have put to the Commission and which justifies a national ban. That is also why we intend to do so. We have had new reports which did not form the basis for previous decisions within the EU or our own decisions and which have such serious implications that we believe we need to act because it is about the protection of small children, which the honourable Member seems to agree with me, are particularly important to protect. Exposing small children to endocrine disruptors can have a huge impact on their health and quality of life throughout their lives. That is why we believe it is important to move forward with this ban. The Swedish industry has been sensitive to consumers and has therefore phased out this topic. As a result, the issue is not on the agenda, nor is it on the part of those who procure and purchase this type of product. I therefore see a clear risk that when you shop from another country you do not think about controlling and asking questions about Bisphenol A. In Sweden it is generally seen as an issue that is dealt with. Therefore, there is a risk that the product from a foreign company will be bought in unknowingly and placed in Swedish houses. That would be unfortunate indeed. I also see it as establishing protection for the Swedish industry, which has gone ahead and which should not be exposed to unhealthy competition with companies in other countries that have been more passive on this issue. That is why I also see it as a good business policy to go forward with this proposal.
i-29666732a0ae0025-501	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer, Minister. Sweden has been ahead of schedule for a long time with regard to restrictions on dangerous substances. This applies not least to the issue of mercury, which we pushed all the way to the Minamata Convention. Sweden has also been a driving force in the EU for the Commission to develop criteria for endocrine disruptors. The Alliance government sued the Commission in June 2014 to get to grips with this. Therefore, Sweden also has a high reputation in matters relating to chemicals. When all the other tools are exhausted and the opportunities no longer exist, it is good that we can go ahead in order for the EU to impose certain restrictions. On the other hand, I have doubts as to whether the EU will come forward with further reinforcements in its regulations, when its own expert authorities have made a different interpretation. Madam President, I would like It should also be said that a ban on bisphenol A is not the only comprehensive solution. In many cases the chemical can be replaced by bisphenol B, bisphenol F or bisphenol S. There are a lot of bad cousins in the bisphenol family. Yet the government unilaterally chooses to focus on this particular one. Another way forward in the field of chemicals policy is to choose instead to investigate, for example, how substances can be treated in groups, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture last year. If we can develop a scientifically proven way of limiting substances in groups, chemicals policy can be more effective. Let me take a more concrete example from reality. The net drug spice is an umbrella term for certain cannabis-like substances that you smoke. When Sweden prohibits a substance, the drug is chemically modified to avoid the specific ban. The legislative apparatus must then restart from square one, even though it is perhaps just a phenyl group or similar that has been moved on the hydrocarbon chain. Similarly, in some cases, plastic manufacturers are acting that phase out BPA. It is replaced by other bisphenols. A ban on bisphenol A in two-component epoxy, which is used in relining water pipes, is a rather narrow solution. I don't think that's taking a grip on the whole thing. But it is a solution at the expense of harmonised chemicals legislation. There are good reasons for considering whether the Swedish chemicals policy is effective in this regard, on whether it is the best way in which the government can work for a better environment. More effective work than banning Bisphenol A in two-component epoxy in water pipes that do not emit large amounts of BPA could be pushing for restrictions at EU level. It could be getting more subjects on the candidate list. That could be acting within Reach up. This could be a way of banning group substances. There could be many things at Union level. Why does the government choose to go forward with a national chemicals policy when it has good conditions for a broad anchoring of evidence-based, common and effective chemicals policy in the EU? Are small national bans the right way to use the time for a government that is already halfway through its term of office?
i-29666732a0ae0025-511	Madam President, I would like I think the honourable Member has misunderstood the purpose of the ban. We have no hope that other Member States or the EU as a whole will follow if we go ahead. Our aim is to address a problem that is specific to Sweden, based on the technical conditions that exist in Sweden, on how we heat and lead water in Sweden. These conditions do not exist in other Member States. That is why there is no need for a ban in these states either. Our aim is to deal with a documented problem, a risk that Swedish children are exposed to. This risk has been identified by the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, Boverket and the Swedish Food Administration in a joint assignment. They pre-dated the result of this for the government in December 2013. Note that it happened before this government took office. However, we do not want to leave this alone, but we are picking up this important report that has brought us to the attention of a risk to which Swedish children are exposed. We're acting now. There is no contradiction between us acting in Sweden and at the same time acting strongly for a strong common policy. I find it difficult to see the concerns with which the honourable Member justifies the fear of this decision. Such a decision also means that the Swedish industry, which has been active and phased out the subject, is protected from unhealthy competition from companies in other countries that have not been as active and continue to use unsafe products. We know, not least, that, based on ignorance, there are incorrect use and incorrect installations of the relining products, which risk putting people in Sweden at risk. I agree with the honourable Member that this is a small measure. But it addresses a specific problem. When we look at the European system, we can also see that countries themselves act when they discover a problem. It does not in any way weigh on the position of the debate that there are calls for common policies. On the contrary, countries active on the home front tend to be successful also in the joint European discussion.
i-29666732a0ae0025-517	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer, Minister. All essential chemicals legislation is contained in common EU regulations. That's good. With common rules for dangerous substances, we can effectively regulate chemicals that easily move across land borders and in watercourses. At the same time, there is a level playing field for companies in the Union, strengthening the internal market. For a long time, Sweden has had great confidence in issues relating to restrictions on dangerous substances. And the Union would be more prosperous if we could share good solutions instead of turning our eyes inwards, as in this particular case. I would like to conclude the debate by saying that I hope that, once this has been done, the government puts all its focus on the common European policy. Since we have a rather unique voice in Europe, we should take advantage of listening to us on these issues. If we don't lift them up, the question is who does. The Swedish voice is needed in the EU.
i-29666732a0ae0025-521	Madam President, I would like I can assure the honourable Member that the work and focus of the government in European chemicals policy is strong and constant. We are working very actively with and have an active dialogue with those Member States that, like us, want to see a well-functioning and progressive chemicals legislation. We put a lot of effort into making it work better, not least within the REACH up initiative. In this work, we see it as positive that we take with us evidence that we too, if necessary and when we have facts on the table, act at home and respond to problems when our citizens are at risk from dangerous chemicals. We will also do so in the case of bisphenol A in relining.
i-29666732a0ae0025-523	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me what measures I intend to take to facilitate the licensing of small-scale hydroelectric power stations, to comply with Parliament's announcement on the licensing of small-scale hydroelectric power stations and whether I am prepared to reconsider requests for new permits in response to the judgment of the European Court of Justice. I would like to begin by taking note of the judgment on infringement actions against Austria referred to by Sten Bergheden in his interpellation. The verdict is currently being analysed within the Government Office. At the initiative of the Riksdag, the previous Government appointed the Water Activity Investigation to review the rules for water activities. The reports of the Water Activity Investigation have been referred, and the proposals from the investigation are prepared within the Government Office. In June 2016, therefore, recently, the so-called energy agreement between representatives of the parliamentary parties Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats was concluded. The Energy Agreement states, among other things, that Sweden must comply with EU law and its requirements for water activities and that Sweden must have modern environmental requirements for hydropower. The agreement also states that the assessment system should be designed in a way that does not become unduly administratively and economically burdensome for the individual in relation to the environmental benefit sought. The meaning of the Energy Agreement in relation to the already ongoing work on the preparation of proposals for amended provisions for water activities is currently being analysed within the Government Office. I cannot precede the ongoing process or today give an exact time when the government intends to return to Parliament on this matter.
i-29666732a0ae0025-527	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I note that the Minister has read through the verdict and that it is analysed at the Government Office. I think that is a good thing, because the European Union is, after all, setting out a clear path on this issue that is important to take on board. I also think it is a good thing that the energy agreement has come into being and that these important issues are also being highlighted on the whole and clearly state that we do not want any unnecessary administration or an economically burdensome testing system and that at the same time we should have modern environmental requirements on our hydropower. That's good. What is less good is that, in the meantime, many of our small hydroelectric plants around the country are disappearing. Many are forced to close down. We need a new licence test, and we cannot afford to do that, but simply have to close down old fine mills, old fine electricity production, turbines, sawmills and other things that are in the countryside. Such activities have been going on in the country for centuries and have taken advantage of natural hydropower. Sawmills, mills and other activities have been carried out, creating jobs not only in that company but also for the entire countryside around it. To this day, many of these are in operation for various activities, but many have switched to electricity generation. What is also important in the situation is cultural heritage. If we can safeguard the cultural heritage we have created in this country and ensure that it can survive well today, it creates jobs in tourism and other areas around these small-scale hydroelectric plants. That is why it is important that, before the government and parliament have taken new decisions, these small hydroelectric power plants are not forced to shut down because of rigid rules that are being worked on today. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister whether she has visited one of these small-scale hydroelectric plants. I can understand that there has been a lot to do in the ministerial role at the beginning of the work, but at the same time I would like to take the opportunity to invite the Minister to Skaraborg to look at the small-scale hydroelectric plants and visit the people who are fighting for their survival and their activities and would like to contribute and help so that it can continue. So if the Minister has the opportunity to come to Skaraborg to take note of the current situation, it is to be welcomed. The second question is: what initiative does the Minister intend to take to speed up this process? There is, of course, a possibility that the government will go in and say that now that we are reviewing the regulations, we are issuing a moratorium, thus putting a temporary stop to the new permits, until we have clarified exactly how we want this. We will then have to consider the European Court of Justice, the Energy Agreement and the announcement by Parliament. After all, there is a majority in Parliament that wants to go this way, and I think we all want to try to keep these small-scale hydroelectric plants as best we can. So what initiatives does the Minister intend to take, and has the Minister visited one of these small hydroelectric plants?
i-29666732a0ae0025-538	Madam President, I would like As the honourable Member will know, I have only been in office for a few weeks and I have not yet had time to make any business visits to the country. I look forward to being able to do many of these and bring the nice invitation to that process. I would also like to comment on the concerns about the cultural environments and to make it clear that it is the county administrative boards that have the responsibility to supervise these activities and that within the county administrative boards there is knowledge and competence also in the field of cultural environment issues. I assume that each county administrative board works widely across the units and does not deal with regulatory issues without taking cultural environmental issues into account. As described, there are now several important new parameters on the issue of the smaller hydroelectric power plants. The energy agreement was a broad work in which we managed to find a consensus that is incredibly valuable, and we must of course now analyse it at the Government Office before doing anything else. The same applies to the EU judgment. Spontaneously I can say that I do not fully recognise myself in the honourable Member's description of that judgment. It is quite large and complex and this needs to be analysed together. Therefore, I must respect that process and not announce here and now what action I will take before I know the outcome of this preparation.
i-29666732a0ae0025-542	Madam President, I would like I still hear the Minister's ambition here: It is assumed that the county boards work so that they actually weigh both the benefits of small-scale hydropower and cultural environments in the process. In some of the areas that I have visited, however, it feels as if you actually do not, but it is different departments that work with different parts. Each does its own thing, and you continue your process even if it is valuable cultural environments and other things. The very idea that this would be so is serious, and at that point the government might nevertheless indicate that there is a desire to take a step forward in the case of small-scale hydroelectric plants. Of course, we should have new water judgments in a reasonable and good way, but it may need to take some time so that we do not risk losing the small-scale hydropower plants in the meantime. That is why I appeal to the Minister and would like her to raise this at the next government meeting and tell the rest of the government that the situation is so serious that we should consider introducing some form of moratorium, that is, a halt to the authorisation process until everything is clear. After all, the Minister's reply breathes very much that these are new conditions: the energy agreement, the European judgment and also the announcement here on 7 April. This means, of course, that there is a will in Parliament to do right from the beginning, and then I think that one should swallow some of the pride in continuing on the old track and instead take on what has happened and perhaps do something that is good and like the countryside, the small-scale hydroelectric power stations and indeed most of the parliament agree in this situation. I therefore appeal to the Minister to raise this point and to put forward the question: would it not be possible to put a temporary stop to authorisation until we are finished with this part so that we do not risk anything? There are also rumours that individual MPs go out to their county boards to try to influence them to calm down the process. I have only heard rumours and cannot prove it in any way, but it is serious enough if it is that you want something but do not dare to make the decision in the government. Then it is better that the government is clear with a decision and says that we want the county boards to wait for this until we are finished with the whole process. Of course, my invitation to Skaraborg stands firm. It would be very nice to be able to show around, and I think the Minister would meet many of these people who have worked their whole lives with their businesses and today are in danger of going from both house and home because of the new permits. It can cost them about half a million for an environmental and impact assessment. In addition, if they do not receive a new permit, they may have a further half a million demolition costs. For small businessmen in those situations, that means death. It can force them to go from house to house. Their crime in this context has been that they have produced environmentally friendly electricity, created jobs in rural areas and created growth where we want more growth and more jobs in the future. It is not a nice way to thank the owners of the small hydroelectric power plants to introduce such rules so that they are forced to go from house and home. I appeal to the Minister to consider a moratorium.
i-29666732a0ae0025-552	Mr President, I would like to I find reason to remind the honourable Member of the background to the Water Activity Investigation and that the process is based on the transposition into Swedish law of an EU directive – nothing else. There are no other drivers than the correct transposition of this EU legislation. In the course of the process, there has been a ruling on exemption rules relating to the implementation of the directive. Then, of course, the government will have to analyse that judgment carefully, while taking note of the announcement and honouring the agreement that has been reached between the parties and finding a middle ground where all three can work well together. Until this is done, I cannot and should not make any further comments on the part of the government or myself.
i-29666732a0ae0025-555	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think it still breathes a certain kind of will to try to solve the problem. It is positive, and it should be said. I still think there is more to be done on the part of the government because it is the government that is on the opportunity to steer the issue further in order to move forward. Now we have seen that the European Union has said to some extent how it might consider looking at these issues in future. Parliament has said how these issues should be reviewed so that small-scale hydroelectric plants are not hit too hard. The Energy Agreement has woven these issues in. There are many parties involved with an extremely broad majority in order to really tackle these issues. With all this on my feet, I think that both the Minister and the Government should not only analyse this and look further at the issues while the small-scale hydroelectric power plants are being shut down, but also take some initiative in this situation and gladly raise these issues at the next government meeting to get some kind of signal to the Swedish Government and the county boards around the country to work on the issue and wait for the development before the next step is taken for the small-scale hydroelectric plants. The Minister and the Government have the Riksdag, the EU and the Energy Agreement behind them. We are waiting for the government to do its job to help small-scale hydroelectric plants.
i-29666732a0ae0025-560	Mr President, I would like to The fact that there is an announcement and that there is a part of the energy agreement that includes small hydropower shows that there is a great deal of commitment to the issue. At the same time, work is under way on implementing fairly complex EU legislation. I think the honourable Member will be disappointed if he has the view that the ruling on exceptions will be clarification. The verdict will be important for a further process, but the question is somewhat more complex than the honourable Member suggests. The government will do an analysis. Work on the issue is ongoing intensively at the Government Office. We'll get into all parts and weigh them. We should not handle or respond to just any part, but all parts should be handled at the same time correctly.
i-29666732a0ae0025-563	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that eutrophication and other environmental problems are reduced in the Baltic Sea and that our international commitments can be met. I share Jens Holm's concern about the serious situation in the Baltic Sea. Despite reductions in nitrogen emissions and improvements in water quality in many Swedish coastal areas, the situation in the Baltic Sea of Varsinais, the Gulf of Finland and several bays is very serious. The Baltic Sea has the world's largest areas of dead bottoms where deep water suffers from permanent oxygen deficiency. Algae blooms are becoming more common and begin earlier. Eutrophication has consequences for fishing, tourism and the economy in all Baltic Sea countries. Despite reduced emissions from land, the internal load of phosphorus from the dead bottoms continues to worsen eutrophication. In order for the environmental quality target No eutrophication to develop positively, the pace of action needs to be increased and measures need to be taken more widely where it can produce clear results in the environment. As Jens Holm points out, there is a need for further action, particularly in the field of phosphorus reduction. Sweden is therefore actively involved in international efforts to improve the Baltic Sea environment, where the Helcom Baltic Sea Action Plan, the Marine Environment Directive and the Water Framework Directive are the most important components. The European Court of Auditors' report Combating eutrophication in the Baltic Sea: more and more effective measures are needed as presented in May 2016 show that action in the Baltic Sea region has not been sufficient and needs to be improved. Council conclusions will soon be presented with this message. Nationally, the issue is also part of the maritime strategy decided by the government, and the issue of reducing eutrophication is important to exploit the growth potential associated with the Baltic Sea. The Swedes are concerned about the future of the Baltic Sea. The local involvement along our coasts and in our municipalities is great. At the same time, Sweden has great opportunities to influence marine environmental work here at home, at regional level and globally. With the support of LOVA grants, local projects are made to reduce eutrophication. On the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management's website there is a project catalogue that shows this. The reduction of nutrient leakage in agriculture is a challenge for all Baltic Sea countries and has resulted in a significant reduction in nitrogen emissions. The Swedish Rural Development Programme offers great opportunities to take water-related environmental measures. The initiatives for advice in Greppa Näringen and the sub-project Greppa Fosforn help, among other things, to develop effective measures to reduce losses of phosphorus from arable land. Several progress has been made in reducing emissions from shipping. Helcom has decided to send an application to the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) to make the Baltic Sea a control area for nitrogen oxides, a so-called NECA area. The ban on the discharge of toilet waste from cruise ships and passenger ferries will enter into force in 2019 as a result of Sweden's leadership in lengthy international negotiations within the IMO. As part of the Marine Environment Directive, the Maritime and Water Authority decided in December 2015 on an action programme for the marine environment. One measure in the programme is to explore possibilities for influencing the internal nutrient load locally in overfed bays and bays as well as in the Baltic Sea. Measures to manage the internal load need to be part of further work, in parallel with preventive measures to reduce nutrient emissions from land and air. The Water Framework Directive action programmes and their implementation are of major importance for the development of water quality in the Baltic Sea. In May 2016, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management presented the most detailed and reliable assessment of the nutrient load on the Baltic and Western Seas, which has been carried out so far. The new assessment will have an impact on the continued work towards eutrophication, both locally and regionally. Through the BSAP Fund, Sweden provides support for innovative technical solutions against eutrophication. Several of these pilot projects have taken the form of large-scale initiatives, such as reducing emissions from shipping and sewage treatment. The Government continues to give high priority to work on the EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region. On 8 and 9 November, Sweden hosted the 7th Strategy Forum for the EU Baltic Sea Strategy here in Stockholm. This is an important opportunity to strengthen cooperation in the region and to continue developing joint cooperation projects. We want our work at national and regional level to show a Swedish leadership that we are proud of and that we can present when, together with Fiji next year, we organise the major UN meeting for the implementation of the sustainability objective n 14 on the sea.
i-29666732a0ae0025-575	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the Environment for his reply. It's good that there's a lot of work going on on this incredibly important issue, but I think more – a lot more – will be needed. The Baltic Sea is probably the world's most polluted sea. As the Minister for the Environment says, there are large areas in the Baltic Sea with a permanent lack of oxygen. We know that algal blooms have already started in the southern Baltic Sea. According to SMHI, it is the earliest algal bloom ever since this was measured. We also know that, with current decisions and measures, we will not achieve our environmental quality objectives in this area, such as those concerning no eutrophication, living lakes and watercourses and seas in balance. In its in-depth evaluation of our 16 environmental quality objectives, the Environmental Protection Agency says that more measures are needed if we are to reach our targets by 2020. I would like to start by asking the Minister for the Environment about the rural development programme, to which she herself refers. There are environmental benefits that farmers can receive. We know that agriculture is the main source of eutrophication through nitrogen and phosphorus emissions. I would like to know whether the government is pushing to change the rural programme so that these environmental benefits can be more accurate than they are today. The information I have received is that the farmers involved in this do not think that they are receiving adequate accurate compensation. The rural development programme is being implemented here in Sweden. We can negotiate it with the European Union. I think the LOVA contributions mentioned by the Minister are very important. I think it is good that they are at a higher level today than under the previous bourgeois government, but they probably need to be much higher than they are today. I would like to ask the Minister if she has any plans to extend the LOVA grants. Previously we had a tax on fertilizers in Sweden. That tax was good in that it was a price for what is released – fertilizer or fertilizer – and contributes to eutrophication. But we also received important income for environmental work in agriculture. We in the Left Party think it is time to reintroduce this treasure. I know it's something that's being investigated and prepared in the Government Office, but maybe we can get some kind of information. I think it is important that income goes back to the environmental work of agriculture. Then there'll be a double win on the whole thing. There was a report last year from the University of Gothenburg, specifically its marine environment institute. It points to the importance of behavioural changes among all of us people living around the Baltic Sea. After all, high consumption of animal food, mainly meat, leads to higher nitrogen and phosphorus emissions. I would therefore like to know whether the government has any plans to take measures to make it easier for people to reduce their meat consumption.
i-29666732a0ae0025-585	Mr President, I would like to It is important in terms of the work that we do regionally that, in addition to being clear and active there, we also take action at home and follow up on the measures that exist. I think what Jens Holm said about the effectiveness of the rural programme is interesting, and I am happy to take it with me for further work. It is important that we have a job that is accurate. It has indeed been stated by our authorities, as the honourable Member points out, that we need to develop the work so that, when we spend government money, we ensure that they do the greatest possible environmental benefit. I would like to highlight what is happening within the BSAP Fund. There is a lot of interesting happening, and Sweden has actively worked to ensure that the fund has sufficient funds and is able to continue to distribute funds in the future. We also see positive results from the LOVA grants – the money leads to environmental benefits but also to innovation in local communities around Sweden. There is a great deal of commitment, not least on the municipal side. Among other things, I can highlight Trelleborg and Simrishamn in Skåne and Kalmarsund Commission, which with the support of the LOVA contributions show positive results. It is true that agriculture is a huge contributor of nutrients to the Baltic Sea. This issue must be tackled from several quarters at the same time. The issues of fertilizers and any tax on them are being prepared, but it goes without saying that we have to put forward a proposal that can be expected to be supported in Parliament in order for it to be implemented. As far as agriculture is concerned, there is also much going on in relation to water issues. The safeguards that will be implemented under the WFD will be comprehensive and will also affect these elements. It is important to take a holistic approach to both water issues and how agriculture develops so that we get a job that works well for the individual farmer but also produces clear results. I share the honourable Member's concern about the Baltic Sea. I received the latest report on bottom death in the Baltic Sea. Shock is a strong word, but I was very worried that developments have turned out to be in the wrong direction at such a high rate. True, this is what scientists have long warned against, but it is happening at a pace that means that we need to step up the measures vigorously.
i-29666732a0ae0025-593	Mr President, I would like to In order to tackle the problem of eutrophication and the deaths of the Baltic Sea, and the major challenges facing the Baltic Sea in general, solutions could perhaps be divided into two ways. One is that measures are taken at the level of production, for example as far as agriculture is concerned. We have already talked about the need to improve or streamline the measures of the rural development programme. I think that's great. There are other direct grants you can apply for such as LOVA grants and grants under the Baltic Sea Action Plan. That's great, too. The fertilisation tax is being investigated. It has been investigated for quite some time now, I think, but at least there seems to be a positive ambition with the government. I think that's good. These are measures on the production side n. Action can also be taken on the consumption side or on the behavioural side. I asked you a question about meat consumption. That might sound a little odd. What does that have to do with this? Well, the more animals are reared, the more grain must be produced to raise them. Already, 60 to 70% of all grain produced goes to livestock farming. We also know that the animals themselves lead to large emissions that are not always handled properly. Even our own consumption ultimately goes out through our sewers. You sometimes think that the sewers are cleaned to 100 percent, but that's not the case. And the more animal proteins we eat, the more nitrogen and phosphorus enter the drain. Already today, in Sweden and the West, we consume far too much animal protein. It is about twice as much as recommended. About 60% of the nitrogen from our sewers is purified; the other 40% is not purified. About 95 percent of phosphorus is removed in the purification process, but it is still about 5 percent that remains. Then there are hundreds of thousands of individual sewers that are not connected to any municipal treatment plants. I think it is very important to promote behavioural changes as well. Here we can reduce emissions very much. That is why I again ask the question – I did not think I got an answer to it – if the government is prepared to take any measures for changing behaviour, i.e. for a reduction in meat consumption by the Swedish people. This does not mean that you stop eating food, of course, but that you eat food with reduced environmental and climate loads. It is also an important issue in this context, and I would like to know if the government has any such plans.
i-29666732a0ae0025-600	Mr President, I would like to As far as consumption is concerned, the most important thing right now is that we are facing the increased pressure on organic food through Swedish production. The interest in organic food is very great among Swedish consumers, so great that in some respects it is greater than demand. A clear priority from the government is to work to support the transition in such a way that the demand is met, preferably by Swedish food production. This issue is addressed within the framework of the Food Strategy. If you look at the overall and long-term it is desirable that the proportion of animal protein is reduced in what we consume in Sweden. As public actors, we also have a certain impact on eating habits, including through the food served in public administration. There are good opportunities to meet both health challenges and environmental problems through a change in lifestyle. The production side of meat is also complex. It is equally important how production is done, what food is given and how animals are kept, for both direct and indirect discharges. I want to see the issue in an overall perspective and note that it is complex and is about more than just reducing meat production.
i-29666732a0ae0025-603	Mr President, I would like to We have received some information from the Minister that there are already measures, subsidies and things that can be applied for today, and that is true. I do not think we have received any concrete promises that these contributions should be scaled up, but Karolina Skog has another intervention to make that clear. Just as the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency states in its in-depth report, we will not achieve our environmental objectives with measures and instruments now taken. There's more to it. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency places a lot of stress on the need to increase the contribution to a more sustainable agriculture. They press a lot on the agricultural side, but there are of course other parts as well. Another part of this is that of individual sewers, which I also mentioned. There are hundreds of thousands of individual sewers that are not connected to the municipal treatment plants. I would like a little clearer information from the Minister here. As far as meat consumption is concerned, it is a little both yes and no from the Minister. The Minister acknowledges that animal protein consumption needs to be reduced. That's good. But how is that to happen? This is not an issue that can only be passed on to individuals. We agree quite well that we need to travel less with airplanes and private cars and so on. Then we politicians should also be able to agree to adopt an action plan for reduced meat consumption in Sweden, not least in the public sector, so that all municipalities, county councils, school and food managers and so on know that it is a good idea with reduced meat consumption and more vegetable food in the public sector. Is this something that the Minister is prepared to work for?
i-29666732a0ae0025-606	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm raised a very important issue, which has been raised by new alarming reports on the state of the Baltic Sea, which call for action. From the government's side, we have increased the opportunity to apply for grants to support the active engagement that exists locally, both within the business community and with municipalities. It is both about our own contributions and about contributions through international organisations. We see that this work is partly successful, but we have also met with criticism that it is possible to improve the system so that the money spent really leads to environmental effects. There we intend to remain active, so that we ensure that we have a clear environmental impact. Then this is also a big question of agricultural production and its conditions and what is consumed in Sweden. I agree with Jens Holm's picture: For both environmental and health reasons, there is reason to reduce the proportion of animals in what is served in public Sweden. In the near future, we will be presenting a procurement strategy, and there are also clear tools for the public to be progressive and to take clear environmental considerations into account when purchasing public funds in the framework of public procurement.
