i-4826adaf846a1061-11	Mrs. Old President! Today we are going to debate and take decisions on issues relating to unaccompanied minors. It is children who have come to our country without guardians. Some have been sent away by desperate parents who hope that at least one member of the family will survive. Some have left parents and siblings and hope that by getting here they will be able to help the whole family, perhaps by studying hard, working and making a living and sending home money, or reuniting with them. Some of them have begun the journey with the family but separated from it on the way here. Either they have lost each other or at worst they have seen siblings and parents die on the perilous journey here. In 2015, more than 35 000 children came to Sweden alone without a guardian and applied for asylum. Most of the children have reached their teens. They're between 13 and 18 years old. But there are also many younger children. 2,563 children were 12 years of age or younger. They're little kids. So far this year, far fewer have arrived. During January, 638 children without guardians arrived. All through February, there were 185 children. Mrs. Old President! It'll easily be a rumbling of numbers-- it sounds like-- and that's not my intention. It is important that we keep in mind that this is about individual children. Every one of those who come is a child, in most ways a normal kid, but a kid who's been through terrible things. These are already vulnerable young children and teenagers who are at risk of violence, insecurity and insecurity even when they have arrived in Sweden. Over the past few weeks, we have heard almost daily alarming reports of conditions when the children have come to what would be a safe place. And that's our responsibility. We can't undo what happened to them before they got here. Of course, in other areas we can try to help prevent the war that is most of the reason why they have been forced to flee. But even if we can't undo the war, it's our responsibility to do what we do when they get here. It is what is happening here and now that is most crucial to their future. Already last autumn several municipalities and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency warned that the situation in several places was becoming unsustainable. During the autumn of 2015, the Inspection for Care received lex Sarah notifications from municipalities of a kind that were completely new. Municipalities indicated that they themselves were unable to comply with the legislation. They were not in a position to comply with the laws and rules that we have said should apply to the most vulnerable children. Especially serious did they indicate that the situation was for unaccompanied minors and young people. In order to meet children's needs and rights, more social secretaries, good men and family homes are needed. For older young people, a large number of new and safer housing is needed. Unfortunately, we see the human effects of what municipalities and MSB warned about last autumn. When a lot of children come to Sweden without guardians, the pressure on a previously heavily strained social service increases. The committee has been informed that many of the municipalities which now state that the situation is very serious would have answered the same if they had received the question a year ago. In January this year, the Ombudsman for Children interviewed unaccompanied minors and found several serious shortcomings in their reception. There are long periods of stay in the temporary housing, many who feel vulnerable, they are denied healthcare and lack clothes and shoes to stay outdoors. I myself met a child who had been almost a year in Sweden before he first met a representative of the Migration Agency to get the asylum application process started. In the acute situation that has arisen, the Christian Democrats believe that the whole situation of the reception of children needs to be reviewed. A different division of responsibilities is needed, and we must look at other forms of work for unaccompanied children. We face a challenge that goes beyond what social services normally handle. It is not enough just to try to scale up – do what we have done before but more. It is a new situation that requires new efforts. That is why we Christian Democrats proposed before Christmas that a National Social Crisis Emergency Response Centre be set up under the State Department Board. It should be available as a resource for municipalities that need relief in their work with unaccompanied refugee children. It is not a question of taking over responsibility from the municipalities but of being there, supporting and taking over some tasks from the municipalities that express that they need help. It is regrettable that the committee as a whole has not seen the opportunity to mandate the government to proceed with our proposal. We believe that the need for a national Social Emergency Response Centre is greater than ever before. You can't just sit still and see more children get hurt. It has not been long since we had an investigation that looked at what we have failed to do in the past for children who are cared for. We do not want to stand in the same difficulty in a few decades to look ourselves in the mirror because we failed to care for the children once more. Mrs. Old President! Of course, I support both our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-4826adaf846a1061-25	Mrs. Old President! The large-scale influx of refugees now taking place affects Europe and Sweden. To the greatest extent these migrations affect Swedish social services. In recent months, 66 of the country's 290 municipalities have themselves signed up for lex Sarah because they believe that in one or more areas they do not comply with current legislation. It is just over one in five municipalities in Sweden. Sweden therefore needs a temporary refugee break. Better order is needed in the reception and better organised forms of integration of all the people who are already here. Other countries must shoulder their responsibilities, and we must focus on integration. It takes a break. Last year, more than 170 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden, 80 000 of them for less than two months. Of the applicants, more than 35,000 were unaccompanied minors. Sweden is not able to receive so many people in such a short time. In January, the number of unaccompanied minors was 637. There are more than the corresponding month of last year and even more than the corresponding month of 2013. This indicates that the number of unaccompanied minors in 2016 will be even greater. Then it is not enough to stand and stomp. This requires political leadership, reforms and strategies in the short and long term. Social services and health care were already under severe pressure before the refugee flows exploded last autumn. The Alliance government took responsibility and appointed the National Coordinator and Investigator Cecilia Grevfe for vulnerable children and young people to begin this work. Now the situation is extraordinary and so extensive in many parts of social services and healthcare that the situation requires further action. Both social services and health care staff are doing admirable work. At the same time, there is a risk that many people will not be able to take it and will stop. The extraordinary pressure has led, among other things, to Parliament having a public hearing about unaccompanied minors and the many responsibilities of social services a month ago. Particularly worrying were the findings of the Health and Welfare Inspection, Ivo, which points out that the large increase in unaccompanied minors and young people has affected both the supervision and the licensing process. It emerged, among other things, that I vo today does not impose the same requirements on the scope of management systems and has partly accepted an other competence of managers, i.e. because they are not able to do so. In addition, there was worrying information that Ivos supervision of healthcare and other social services is allowed to stand down due to the lack of sufficient resources. It doesn't make sense. At the same hearing here in the Riksdag, the Academic Union stressed that nothing in the current welfare system is adapted to ensure that such a large group of unaccompanied minors who come for such a short period of time achieve good integration and a good reception. Social services and the Social Services Act are not rigged for the current situation. Housing forms such as HVB, family homes and student health have also not been designed with the lonecomers in focus. Mrs. Old President! The Moderates are self-critical. We should have started to equip Sweden earlier in order to be better able to meet the refugee flows. The question is whether the government and the responsible minister are prepared to do and face the same. The refugee crisis will affect Sweden and social services for a very long time to come. Now it is not possible to turn a blind eye to the needs. Now we need a review. Now we need a review in order to make the situation, not least the work situation, sustainable so that we can help vulnerable children and young people. Reforms and previous proposals now need to be reconsidered. According to the Health and Welfare Inspection, there were 1 277 homes in February this year for care or housing, so-called HVB. Of these, more than a thousand are run by municipalities. It's about eight out of ten HVBs. Under the current regulatory framework, these are not subject to authorisation. Currently, more than 250 HVB are operated in other ways. These require permission. Since the turn of the year, about 50 new accommodations are started per week. Mrs. Old President! At the same time, the Government has presented the budget and the Riksdag there after decided on saving requirements for the supervisory authority of nearly SEK 60 million. The Authority shall reduce the supervision and monitoring of the quality of accommodation. In addition, the government has rejected the proposals made by the Moderates for equal quality requirements from the outset. You heard correctly – there is a saving requirement for one of the authorities that today may have absolute primary responsibility for providing support and assistance to vulnerable children from the outset. Due to the serious situation Sweden is in, it is even more important to do right from the beginning. But Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. Instead, we should strengthen supervision, strengthen testing and strengthen quality in order to do more right from the start. We should not risk putting vulnerable children and young people at risk. Those involved in the exercise of public authority in the field of social services face difficult considerations in connection with decisions. It is basically a matter of decisions that have a vital impact on children. The exercise of that authority shall be subject to systematic review. This requires training and competence of employees as well as management, boards and owners. Recruiting problems with social services, for example, have been extensive for a long time and are now further hampered by pressure on social services. However, lowering the requirements for education and skills is the wrong way to go. The crisis in social services would be strengthened rather than countered if skills were released. Mrs. Old President! Reality has changed at a rapid pace. Then it is distressing that a weak left-wing government saves on oversight, fails on quality, reduces frequency supervision and rejects basic quality requirements. It's serious now. The necessary efforts must not be missed. It's time for a review. It's time for the government to turn the other cheek. The Moderates have put forward a number of proposals which we believe should be implemented. First of all, we want to see a general permit requirement for all performers, regardless of their form, in respect of different forms of housing in welfare activities. Quality requirements shall be equivalent and clear. Multiple-step sanctions should be available for various types of mismanagement. Withdrawals are only part of this. Secondly, the Inspection of Health and Care, Ivo, needs more resources and not less. I assume that this is one of the most important issues for the budget negotiations that the government parties now have and that they also go back and look at the proposals that have previously been here in Parliament. We are proposing an increase, but the government has unfortunately rejected it in the past. Thirdly, there should be order in welfare. It's not a market. Quality, legal certainty, long-term sustainability and basic safety must characterise both the children and young people concerned and the employees. It should be characterised by good practices, regulations and supervision regarding different types of housing and welfare activities. It's serious now. The necessary measures can no longer be ignored and no longer absent. I support Mr Mo derata's proposal, reservation 2.
i-4826adaf846a1061-54	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals and for reservations to be rejected. Children who suffer ill are the most fragile and vulnerable in our society. The fact that these children are given security, care and opportunities for a good life is the soul and heart of Social Democracy. Every child, regardless of background, has the right to a safe and secure upbringing. There is a humanitarian disaster going on in the world, and millions of people are fleeing war and misery. Sweden is making a historic effort to help vulnerable people on the run, many of them unaccompanied children. We should be proud of the efforts made to protect and help vulnerable children and young people to a better life. Last year, over 35 000 unaccompanied children and young people came to Sweden. Each of them has its own conditions and unique history with it. And of course it is important that all children who come here have a good upbringing and good opportunity to realize their goals. At the same time, we must take responsibility for not losing other children in need here and now. In many municipalities there is a serious situation in individual and family care, especially in social care for children and young people. There are large staff turnovers, extensive staff shortages and young graduates who get little or no introduction at all and who get to deal with difficult cases from day one. However, it is important to point out that social services are an activity that has been heavily burdened and neglected for many years. The increased pressure in social services for a long time has led to an increasing number of clients being forced to compete for the skills, treatment, time and money of social services. It goes out on the children who need the support and help of society most. Of course, this is also true of all those social security secretaries who are struggling to reconcile the work situation and who, in many cases, are on their knees. I am therefore pleased that the government has taken the situation seriously from the outset and is now investing in many of these activities when it comes to providing funds and considering regulatory simplification. The important thing is that the children and young people who come here, who have fled for their lives, get a good start, a good upbringing and a good life in Sweden. Mrs. Old President! On the one hand, fantastic efforts are made every day in Sweden for unaccompanied refugee children. These are, above all, the people working in housing and social services who are doing their utmost to make the children and young people placed feel safe and feel as well as possible in the situation in which they find themselves, with the experiences they carry with them from war and flight. It is about staff at school and in health care who are doing their utmost to ensure that the children get it well and about all the committed volunteer workers who take off their leisure time to make their arrival in Sweden a little better and to create a welcome and a good introduction to Swedish society. And not least, it is about all the good men and contact persons who give children and young people a safe place in everyday life. On the other hand, I am fully aware of the sometimes very tough situation of children, young people and staff in social services as well as in school and in housing. The situation is strained. In a survey carried out by the National Board of Health and Welfare, 43 out of 50 municipalities surveyed have indicated that the activities related to unaccompanied minors are seriously or critically affected. This applies to both the investigation work itself and the possibility of finding placement for the children. Half say there are too few places in both HVB and family homes. 45 municipalities say that other activities are affected by the work of unaccompanied minors. In addition, municipalities testify to how prices per night have increased drastically and how they are forced to pay sky-high amounts to private companies for the living of unaccompanied refugee children. This is, of course, extremely problematic. Therefore, the Government has now commissioned the Swedish Agency for Health and Welfare Analysis to map and analyse HVB and consular support to family homes and nursing homes. This shall be reported by 30 December of this year. The mission is limited to HVB and consular support for children and young people. It has a focus on individual operations, but in several areas comparisons are to be made with activities carried out by municipalities. It is incredibly important that we keep track of what we are getting for the tax money that is being invested. Mrs. Old President! Children's best interests are one of our top priorities. This calls for further dialogue with the relevant authorities and municipalities on how to manage to ensure the child perspective in all parts of the reception of these children and young people. To reverse the situation, much needs to be done. We see a clear need for a review of the entire reception system. This could, for example, be done by means of an additional directive to the existing study on the review of the reception and residence of asylum seekers and new arrivals. But in parallel with finding a long-term solution, some things must be done here and now. That is why I believe that the government's efforts so far have been absolutely right. The government has implemented a variety of changes that we know will create a better situation for unaccompanied children. For the first time ever, money is directed specifically at the social care of children and young people, which will go to staff reinforcement and investment in skills and quality. The Government is investing SEK 1 billion during its term of office for this purpose. Through the refugee agreement concluded last year, the municipalities of the country also receive an extra SEK 8 billion to cope with the situation in a good way. The support for children and young people, aged 16 to 20, was introduced in the Social Services Act on 1 January 2016. This was a long-awaited reform by stakeholders. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with designing an initiative to strengthen staffing in social care for children and young people. They have also been commissioned by the Government to coordinate information efforts on family homes, on-call homes, contact persons, contact families, good men and specially appointed guardians, and to allocate 24 million to municipalities for development and skills investments in the social care of children and young people for social secretaries and managers. On 30 November last year, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's response function was also opened with the task of answering questions and providing support to municipalities' social services due to the refugee situation. The government also facilitates the reception of unaccompanied minors by municipalities. It is about simplifying the regulatory framework and reducing the administrative burden. The municipalities also receive more resources for the newly arrived children who need schooling. On 28 January this year, the Government commissioned the Finnish Immigration Service to develop a new model for the instruction of unaccompanied children and young people seeking asylum. In this model, children should be assigned to all 290 municipalities based on a fixed proportion of the total number expected to apply for asylum in Sweden. It is about time rich municipalities stopped running away from responsibility. What we are asking of the European Union must also be able to solve at home – it is a matter of credibility. Mrs. Old President! To sum up: It is a strained situation, but the government takes it at the very largest al l each. It is gratifying that we can now see a number of good examples of how the CoUs are now beginning to use the EUR 8 billion that the refugee agreement meant. For example, you hire social secretarial assistants, something that has long been in demand, and much more. The National Board of Health and Welfare's report from last week also made it clear that almost all municipalities are now doing their job, although the situation is still strained. Sweden needs reforms. We need investment and new cooperation to stay together as a country and emerge stronger from this situation. If the whole of Sweden works together, there are few things that we cannot handle. Then the crisis can be turned into a success, and that is an opportunity that we must not miss.
i-4826adaf846a1061-79	Mrs. Old President! Initially, as Yasmine Larsson did in his speech, I would like to highlight everyone who actually struggles extremely hard every day to do as much as they can for all the unaccompanied and vulnerable children who currently exist in Sweden. Huge efforts are being made, not least by social services employees. We can emphasise this together, I am sure. But I am then concerned about the entry of the Social Democrats into such a serious situation. We can now see that we have even more unaccompanied children and young people so far this year than in previous years. I believe that it should be extremely humble and ready to reconsider, renew and think in a completely different way from what has been done so far to cope with the great ambitions that we still have in helping vulnerable children. At the hearing, it became very clear when trade unions and others stressed that social services and social services are not rigged for this situation – when so many for such a short time need so much help. It concerns HVB, family homes and student health, to name a few areas. Then it is important to reconsider and renew. Most recently today, the Social Democrats chose to reject some 160 different claims in the field of social services. Nothing fell to the taste of the Social Democrats. I have a first question for Yasmine Larsson. As early as October 29, the Moderates proposed that we introduce medical age assessments to help children and young people and not help others who are not children and young people. Are the Social Democrats prepared to reconsider it?
i-4826adaf846a1061-83	Mrs. Old President! I agree with Mrs Cecilia that this is a serious situation that we need to review. We have said that we are ready to review, for example, the receiving system for unaccompanied minors. I also believe that these are things that we need to look at and that we need to reconsider. But I think it is important that we stick to and point out that the situation has not arisen because we have a refugee crisis and that many people are coming here. Social services were heavily strained long before. That is why I think it is important that the measures we are taking are also long-term. We need to do certain things here and now, but we also need to look at it from a perspective that is that these are measures that will last a long time. I do not think that this is a situation that is solved by temporary and rapid reforms, but we need to review the whole system. We will need to review the entire Social Services Act. We will need to review the receiving system. But let us do so at the pace required to get long-term solutions!
i-4826adaf846a1061-85	Mrs. Old President! I would like to repeat my first question to the Social Democrats and Yasmine Larsson. The Moderates proposed on 29 October that medical age assessments be made possible precisely in order for us to help those who are children and young people and for the right efforts under the Social Services Act to benefit them. Are the Social Democrats prepared to reconsider their previous position and allow medical age assessments? I have a second question for Yasmine Larsson – I now give an opportunity for the Social Democrats to answer it in the second line. They say that they are prepared to change and make other long-term efforts. Are you prepared to compromise the quality of social services? Are we prepared to further reduce the requirements? There are already low standards of quality. Not all accommodations have a general permit to carry out their activities. We do not know in essence whether you are doing quite right from the beginning according to the quality requirements that we set from the Swedish Parliament. These are my two concrete questions to the Social Democrats.
i-4826adaf846a1061-88	Mrs. Old President! I think it is important that, in the situation we are in, we take seriously the authorities and the activities that are working on this, which say that it is a problem today that we do not know the age of those who, for example, are in school and at HVB. No, I do not think it is good to blur the quality of the situation in which we find ourselves. But I think it is important that we find solutions for these activities and that we listen to the activities and authorities in order to find good solutions in the future. As I said, I don't think this is a situation that we just have here and now. This is a situation that we must resolve in the long term. It is important that we do not just make solutions in the situation we are in today, but also dare to look forward.
i-4826adaf846a1061-90	Mrs. Old President! I'm going to start around where the last line shift ended. Yasmine Larsson says that it is not a situation where we should do temporary things, but it needs measures that should last a long time. With regard to the general challenges that social services have and have had for a long period of time, the Christian Democrats fully agree. It is important that we review the basic conditions for us to have an organisation and resources. It is about the conditions for social services to be able to help children, families and others in vulnerable situations in a basic way and with good quality. But now we have a unique situation. The progress report presented by MSB on 20 October last year drew attention for the first time to how particularly vulnerable the situation and situation were to unaccompanied minors. It was October 20th. Then this has come back. All November has passed. All December has passed. All January has passed. The whole of February has passed. This report was prompted by the fact that, with the new and unique situation we had, the Christian Democrats raised a motion with a proposal on how to deal with this particular situation, which is unique and needs specific solutions. Then the committee's response is that a review of the reception system could be carried out by means of an additional directive to the inquiry into the review of the reception and residence of asylum seekers and new arrivals. And the questions could be taken into account with regard to a new housing regime in connection with reception. It's been more than four whole months. Why haven't you done this during that time? In other areas, the government has shown that things can be done quickly.
i-4826adaf846a1061-95	Mrs. Old President! I have a great deal of sympathy for Emma Henriksson's and the Christian Democrats' proposals. We need to review the receiving system. I believe that this must be done, and I think it is good to give a supplementary directive to the investigation that already exists today. But I am not convinced that the proposal put forward by Emma Henriksson and the Christian Democrats is the best proposal. I am also not convinced that this is the proposal that the relevant activities and authorities think best. I think we need to investigate this properly. I think it is a reform that needs a long time to come and that we will investigate it thoroughly. Let's do it! Let us try to give another egg directive to the investigation that exists and to review the possibilities of changing, for example, the relationship of responsibility between the municipality and the state!
i-4826adaf846a1061-97	Mrs. Old President! I am not much calmer to hear that you are thinking that this might be a good suggestion but perhaps not the best and most appropriate one. I'm humbled by that, too. Of course, it may not be the big L solution, but it may be a partial solution. For you to be able to carry out such a thing, you have to start investigating and starting to see: Is this the best thing, or do you have to turn it in some way? Instead, the committee rejects our proposal and says that it might be possible to include it in a directive and an investigation that might eventually start working. Since 20 October, we have wasted time. We have agreed that we will provide more resources to municipalities and county councils to enable them to carry out the work. That's good. It's important. It is also part of the solution. However, we have not given the activities that are to take on this great responsibility sufficient opportunity to resolve this. We've all heard municipalities say it's not just about money. It is also about other conditions. If you put out ads and seek new employees for your social services and do not get applicants, it is not enough to have money in your pay account. In fact, there must be someone who can carry out the task. It does not help that we have social secretaries if they are allowed to spend much of their working time traveling across the country rather than focusing on doing what only they can do and what they can do best. We need unique solutions because it is a unique situation. And it should be a complement to what we need to do also for the long-term and the sustainable, which of course must be the overall ambition and which I believe we all agree on. The question is: why have you not given the time that has already been given to the egg directives? Why have you been waiting?
i-4826adaf846a1061-103	Mrs. Old President! As I began by saying, I have a great deal of sympathy for the frustration felt, not just by the Christian Democrats, but everywhere. It's a unique situation. One can imagine that there may be unique solutions. One can also imagine that there may be solutions that last for a long time but are developed in a unique situation. I believe that we urgently need other opportunities, other reforms and another way of sharing responsibility. However, I am absolutely convinced that we need to explore the possibilities of making a change that works today but which also works in the long term. As I said, I have a great deal of sympathy for the proposal put forward by the Christian Democrats. But I am not convinced that, for example, the State Department Board should be responsible and so on. I am absolutely convinced that something needs to be done. But I am not convinced that this is the right way to do it.
i-4826adaf846a1061-107	Mrs. Old President! There is a lot to be said about the issue of unaccompanied minors. If I were to say everything that I know and that worries me, the eight minutes that I have reported would not be enough. In order not to drift out too much, I intend to be rather brief and focus on the report that we are debating today. This has not come about because the government has put forward any proposals, but because of motions that have come in different ways. These include the establishment of a national crisis centre, the responsibility of municipalities for recruitments and the conditions for family homes and on-call homes. These are important points that are highlighted in the exercise. The answer given to the motions is that the government is working on the questions in one way or another. Of course it's great. But we are hearing here today that it is clearly not enough. The committee has received a great deal of information and progress reports from various authorities, and everyone bears witness to a breakdown of the system. Some authority chose to call it a short circuit in the system. The information we have received to the committee has been extremely alarming and not least shocking. Sitting around and hearing how bad it is hurts the whole body. I am of the firm opinion that if Sweden as a country has decided to open its arms in one way or another and receive so many unaccompanied people, we must also be able to do so in a good and safe way. I do not think we are doing that today. The alarming information we have received from the authorities does not only concern unaccompanied minors. It is also about the business as such. It is a heavily burdened business that has the task of investigating and possibly placing children in carefully examined homes, but today you cannot do a good job. Of course, when the situation is as it is, it affects not only the unaccompanied minors to be investigated, but also socionomists and other staff. Many municipalities, as we have heard here today, have reported themselves because they have failed to fulfil their obligations and have not been able to comply with existing legislation. In addition, the workload has meant that children have been placed without their specific needs having been investigated and without the possibility of further follow-up, which can be vital for children and young people. The workload has also resulted in socionomists choosing to quit because they cannot cope with the pressure and stress that work has brought. Constantly working but never catching up and feeling satisfied with the work you do has not rarely been the reason. The health and social care staff are doing a fantastic job in the current circumstances. But the risk of many ending because they are unable to continue is imminent. That is why I think it is important to point out, as some have done here, that it is the system, the regulatory framework, the wrong policies and the bad conditions that have caused this. It's not the profession's fault. We can call it a short circuit in the system, a social breakdown or whatever we want. But something must be done, and it must be done urgently. It is not reasonable that we have k ommuner who places children in HVB and in family homes that have not even been approved to operate because no one has had time to check them out. Rather, a sigh of relief has been drawn in the municipalities to solve today's problems and find a few vacancies. So we can have undisclosed children in a business or in a home that is not even allowed to carry out an activity, and this at a time when the government has recently closed the door to those who have wanted to apply for benefits for the neglect they were subjected to when they were young. What is it that says that we do not get a similar scenario in the future? There are already alarm reports that many children, especially girls, are being used to care for their homes and households, to the mildest extent that they do not have time to do their homework or participate in leisure activities. Of course, this cannot be compared with neglect, but who knows what is happening behind the closed doors that we have not yet managed to open and review? The Finnish Immigration Service's forecast from last month shows that 12 000 – 27 000 unaccompanied minors may apply for asylum in Sweden in 2016. This is, therefore, what is expected to be expected of an already hard-pressed activity which, moreover, suffers from a shortage of socionomists. In the past, before this crisis, social services and health services have been under great pressure and under heavy pressure. Now that the situation is extraordinary, extraordinary measures are also required, perhaps greater measures and proposals than those we have seen today. In the case of HVB, the Inspektionen för vård och vård, Ivo, reports about substandard premises, lack of staffing and safety, unaccompanied persons left alone, girls and boys mixed. There are also reports of major problems with bedbugs and more. Another problem that is also highlighted by various authorities is the fact that many of the unaccompanied persons are older than they have actually stated, which can lead to problems in their operations and in terms of the safety of other residents. However, there is no major possibility to report that someone has declared wrong age because of confidentiality. That is why we believe that a proposal must be made urgently to review the confidentiality legislation that exists in this area. We also believe that it is at least as important and at least as urgent to make proposals regarding age determination. Unfortunately, today there is no such proposal to take a position on, but I assume that the Government and the Government have reacted with the same concern as the rest of us. I also assume that the will to tackle the problem is as strong as in us and that this is done very quickly. It is not reasonable that we have people who are obviously older, and who in some cases have been found to be older, than have been declared and included in the category of unaccompanied minors and are in the business and are at risk of being adversely affected. The current regulations thus bind the staff. In addition, it is reported that it varies across the country in terms of how to deal with the issue, which in itself is also unsustainable and unreasonable. The state must take greater responsibility than it is today towards the municipalities, whose situation is severely affected. I know that some are already being done, but there is every reason to look at how best to create better conditions for municipalities and, above all, to ensure equivalence in all municipalities through clear guidelines and minimum requirements. Mrs. Old President! Above all, Sweden, as someone has said, needs breathing space to recover. We need a responsible immigration and integration policy. We cannot continue to have the generous immigration that we have today if we cannot do it well. It's time to start to realize what reality looks like. We cannot dismiss the whole point by saying that the situation we have today has not arisen as a result of the influx of refugees. It's time to start taking responsibility! I support the committee's proposal.
i-4826adaf846a1061-130	Mrs. Old President! This is a very serious situation. I don't think anyone in this room or outside it will deny that. But it is also important that we properly describe the challenges that exist so that we can find solutions that actually aim for real problems. That's why I was a little concerned when we yesterday, I think it was, on the website of the Swedish Democrats – I just checked, and it's still there – had to read a statement of what has been told us in committee in connection with dealing with this issue. The press release starts with: a staff carrying a gun and children who no one knows where they are. This is the reality of many of the HVB homes that are increasing in numbers in Sweden, and so it continues. I have attended all the meetings of the committee. I have also had contact again with the authorities that have talked about the security issues and confirmed my picture of what they said and what it actually looks like. We have not been informed to the committee that someone should have carried a specific gun. The task we were given – the task that is correct and true – is that it is a representative, i.e. a principal, who at one time on a residence has been armed. What kind of arming it was, that is, if it was some kind of stabbing or something, we have no idea. It has not come to light. My question to the Swedish Democrats is therefore: apart from the fact that you are aiming solely at the question of age, which is also important and to which I am happy to return, is it not important for you to describe the major problems of reality correctly rather than to paint a picture that gives a different description of reality than what is actually the case?
i-4826adaf846a1061-134	Mrs. Old President! Speaking of describing the reality as it is: Emma Henriksson says that I would have aimed at only age determination, and that is not quite correct. I talked about the problems with socionomists, the problems with us not being able to find accommodation and so on. That I should have focused only on age determination is, therefore, not a correct description of it either, if we are to take it as a starting point. As far as what was raised at the committee meeting is, of course, against words. Some have secrecy and cannot express their opinion, but it was said that there had been cases where someone was carrying a gun. They said gun, and they mentioned that it was in the line and so on. It is clear that there may not have been any indication of how many, but it was said that the case had been lost. If there would then be one or more can of course be checked afterwards. The fact that you don't know where the children are is obvious, and the disappearance of children is no secret. That is the description we have received and which the Swedish Democrats have later explained.
i-4826adaf846a1061-137	Mrs. Old President! I have not only spoken to the authority that was actually there and described what was said and, no less important, what has actually happened – what they have actually seen on their inspections. It's been a matter of business. Of course it is terribly serious, but one cannot give the impression that this is the big challenge. As far as the proposals of the Swedish Democrats are concerned and that I expressed it as what you have focused on, it is because I am looking at what proposals the Swedish Democrats are actually putting forward. I have not seen in our documents, in the handling of this matter or in any other matter concerning unaccompanied minors any proposal that the Swedish Democrats have presented, called for or tabled a motion on improving the situation of the children for which we actually have a responsibility. I would be very pleased if the Swedish Democrats had such proposals, but I have not been able to see them. Therefore, Carina Herrstedt is very keen to explain whether the Swedish Democrats have such concrete proposals. My second question relates specifically to age assessments. Because it is serious if it is the case that adults are in accommodation that is for children, and if so, we will fix it. We need to find better ways. We have been given indications that it is estimated in some places that confidentiality may be an obstacle. We also have indications that there are municipalities where, if it is someone you judge as an adult, you can contact the Migration Agency without any problems. Then that person is within 24 hours in an adult housing unit. The question to the Swedish Democrats is: How concerned are you in the event that we risked assessing a child as an adult?
i-4826adaf846a1061-141	Mrs. Old President! First of all, it has not been possible to submit motions for this report; it is about motions that have been submitted before. With regard to what we have as proposals, we have talked about age determination and changing confidentiality legislation in order to protect both those who are older and those who are younger. We have also previously budgeted for the number of socio-economicists, which in turn affects whether the children who actually come here receive the help they deserve. These are, among other things, the issues we have raised. As far as confidentiality is concerned, it is quite clear what applies in the Social Services Act. This is what it says: If it is not clear that the task can be disclosed without suffering to the individual or his or her family member, the social services must not contact the Finnish Immigration Service regarding any suspicions about his or her age. ..................................................... If someone is wrongly judged, you must not contact the Migration Agency and point this out. We have a huge problem there, and we propose that confidentiality legislation be reviewed precisely to protect the children who are in accommodation today.
i-4826adaf846a1061-145	Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen. The Social Committee's report 18 on unaccompanied minors is a so-called exercise report, which means, among other things, that the report does not deal with any government proposals. On the occasion of Cecilia Widegren's speech and the description of the problems she gave, I would like to begin my speech as follows. In October 2007, the Nordic Council adopted my proposal that the Nordic countries in international fora, such as the EU and the UN, should start work on creating rules for the large waves of migration that we were many who, as early as 2006, felt were clearly emerging. However, the Nordic governments, including the Conservative Alliance Government, were not very enthusiastic about the recommendation of the Nordic Council. So you in the alliance government have a very great responsibility for the situation that has arisen. The fact that the great migrations we now see in the world have been going on for a long time, most people who have worked with international issues and aid issues have long realised. The changing climate in the world is causing both severe drought in many areas and floods in other areas. In both cases, it leads to difficulties in making a living, forcing people to move around. This, in turn, leads to crowding in the areas where there is drinking water and soil to grow. In fact, when communities move, conflicts are inevitable. At present, it is said that at least 60 million people are on the run and that almost 1 million of them are in camps or on their way in southern Europe, mainly in Greece and the Balkans. Among them are many, many children, and some of them stand without any adult relatives. Of course, I could once again beat my chest and say: What did I say? Of course, there is no joy in once again being right in substance. On the contrary, it is with great sadness that I note that our Nordic governments, including the Alliance Government, were unable to reach the clarity that the Nordic Council was able to lift itself up by autumn 2007. Unfortunately, the fact that it is essentially climate change that is the root cause of the major global migrations that we now see only the beginning of, and that will characterise the next few decades, is still the cause of many who are trying to turn a blind eye and even deny. As the EU countries now try to share responsibility for reception under the stress of the already on-going major migrations, some may begin to realise that it would have been wise to negotiate regulations for that management in a timely manner, in a calmer form. Had the governments of the Nordic countries listened to the Nordic Council in 2007, we might have had a regulatory framework in place already in 2011-2012 and an organisation in place perhaps some or a few years ago to deal with the situation we are in today. It is only sad that nine years ago, there was no willingness to deal with the situation. Mrs. Old President! In 2015, more than 160 000 refugees arrived in our country, of which over 35 000 were unaccompanied children. Almost everyone here has already pointed this out. The background to the motion in the report, which does not stem from the general period of exercise, but which is brought about by the event of greater importance, is the dramatic increase in both refugees and unaccompanied minors that took place in autumn 2015. There were over 39,000 arrivals in October and over 36,000 in November. Of these, over 9 000 unaccompanied minors were in October and only marginally fewer in November. Of course, the enormous change that has taken place is very difficult for our country. I therefore fully understand the almost desperation reflected in the November motion for the drama that then took place in many places around the country. There were many who were drawn into the almost critical feeling, for which there was of course reason during late autumn. Undoubtedly, such a major change in reality as we saw last autumn means that we have to ask ourselves whether the organisation and the division of responsibilities that we have in our country are functional and the right one. The question can be asked, as you do in the exercise, whether the state should take more responsibility. Is it precisely for unaccompanied minors the state should take increased responsibility or is it for other parts? Is there a need for a different government structure? Should the responsibilities of municipalities be developed and changed in any way? There are many components to consider in dealing with the new reality that I believe we are in. We in the Green Party share the committee's view that the change in reality, probably for a long time to come, means increased levels of incoming refugees and that it in turn justifies or, in political language, leads to a review of forms of division of responsibilities between state and municipality. We assume that the government will initiate such longer-term work. It requires investigations that need to be allowed to take their time. It is always dangerous to be in a hurry to make major changes in crisis situations. It can punish itself in the end. That's kind of the way I think you should argue in favour of rejecting the motion. It is a good reflection of the situation and the mood then, but the measures must have a longer-term and thought-out basis. Of course, the current situation must be dealt with. Fortunately, we have both a government and many authorities which, this autumn, calmly and calmly took on the situation, which we can well call an unexpected development. The report describes a giant arsenal of decisions and measures taken by the government and the authorities, and continues to take, in view of what happened last autumn and to deal with the problems that are constantly being revealed. Among other things, a large number of billions were added – 11 billion I believe it is in the report – because of the strained situation, the majority of which goes to the municipalities. I see that time has passed quickly, so I am not going to take up the time of the House to list all the regulatory simplifications and funding allocations listed in the report. On the one hand, the Social Democrats have already told us about this and, on the other hand, I assume that the Minister will say more about it. More follow-up and evaluation missions have also been provided, and I think that is important in order for us to learn from what has happened. There are always some less serious actors who, when there are major changes on the part of society, see opportunities to make big money. In case of overlaps from one system to another, it is normal – I have been there for so long that I think I can say it – that society has difficulty in managing quality control when changing how to solve issues. When reality changes as quickly as it did last autumn, rapid action is also needed. There are proposals in the motions from the general exercise time discussed in the report. When I read the exercises, I think that reality has changed so much that most of what is in them is already overplayed. I therefore believe that these can also be rejected and that the committee's proposal for a decision can be approved. The government is now equipping our systems personally by providing resources so that more people can be hired in the places where it is needed. It also adds other types of resources, adjusts laws and other things that can be done quickly without major investigations. This is done in order for Sweden to be able to accept the responsibility that a rich and prosperous country must take in a time when it is very difficult for all mankind, because that is what it looks like today. People's migrations will increase as the climate on the planet becomes increasingly unpredictable so that it becomes increasingly difficult to live here. It is therefore important that Sweden now switch from seeing the new reality – we have to realise that it is a new reality – as exceptional and crisis-like to change and realize that we have a new everyday life that we have to deal with. We need to build infrastructure, housing and everything else that is needed to enable, for example, the unaccompanied children who come to Sweden to develop their full potential and enrich all of us in the future. As has been pointed out earlier, the ambition to fulfil this task must not, of course, be at the expense of other responsibilities of the authorities, such as social services. It is clearly stated in the report, quoting several of the Minister's interpellation responses and answers to questions. I would like to conclude by saying that although the number of unaccompanied minors at the moment is not so high – it is still large, 600 in January – we must rig a capacity to deal with a significantly higher and probably very long-term, perhaps even permanent, high level.
i-4826adaf846a1061-168	Mrs. Old President! I thank you, Jan Lindholm, for the opportunity to ask a few questions and possibly also give an answer, because in your speech it sounded like it might not be quite clear to you what we Christian Democrats have proposed. However, I would like to start at the end of the debate on the action of the Green Party. You mentioned in your speech that in your opinion it is dangerous to be in a hurry. That can certainly be the case at times. But let me put to you the proposal we have made in relation to how the Green Party and the Social Democrats acted during the autumn. With only a few days' notice, the government first made proposals to close the bridge to Denmark, but the proposal that was finally put on Parliament's table was about introducing ID controls. These proposals did not even go for proper consultation. No organisation representing human rights was given the opportunity to have views on the work material, i.e. a material that not even we elected representatives and, let alone, an individual citizen of the country had the opportunity to look at before the legislative referral was sent away. Then the government was in an incredible hurry. The Green Party was one of the parties behind the introduction of a temporary law for three years allowing ID checks for six months at a time. Now we are talking about unaccompanied minors and the introduction of a social services helpline that can operate across the country and recruit staff and family homes.
i-4826adaf846a1061-174	Mrs. Old President! I understand that Emma Henriksson compares apples and pears. It is about solving an emergency situation and building a structure to deal with the problem in the long term. I may have misunderstood the Christian Democrats' motion. I understand that it is a proposal for part of the long-term solution. But have I misunderstood and it was a proposal for a kind of crisis solution, I think you would have found a different form than writing a motion. We must be able to distinguish between these two things. Last fall we had curves pointing in one direction. I think that Emma Henriksson is really as familiar as I in what our authorities said about what it looked like with rapidly increasing sick leave and with authority by authority that was very close to not being able to cope with even the most basic functions. Emma Henriksson knows very well that in that situation there was a discussion about whether or not the system would collapse. That is quite different from discussing what I feel we are doing now on the basis of this motion for a resolution. It is about how we are going to manage to build up the resources needed to cope with a situation that I think will be quite different from a few years ago, with a much higher level of reception in the future.
i-4826adaf846a1061-179	Mrs. Old President! It is possible that it can be perceived as comparing apples and pears. What I compare is how the government acted in one area last autumn and how the Green Party, as part of the government, has chosen to act in another area, namely the area we are talking about now. We know that today, several months later, there are children who have still not received an individual assessment and that the accommodation they live in has not yet been properly investigated. There is still a crisis situation for the individual children in these activities. It's happening here and now, and it's been that way for months. Urgent action is needed. We agree that we need to do long-term things, but we need to make urgent efforts here and now. In one area, the government was prepared to introduce a three-year legislation with ID checks for six months at a time. It is very far-reaching to take such a measure. The Christian Democrats admitted that the government might need such a tool, but since it was so unprepared, this possibility would be given one month at a time for six months. That is something other than adopting legislation for three years that is not prepared. However, in the area we are now debating, the Green Party is prepared to say that, in the Committee's view, an investigation should now be set up. It's been months. In one area, they are prepared to make huge decisions after just a few days' preparation and after the Parliament's legislature has had the opportunity to look at it for just one day. What's the difference? Why has the Green Party not been prepared to take more urgent action in this area?
i-4826adaf846a1061-186	Mrs. Old President! I find it difficult to understand Emma Henriksson's reasoning. It's just like the government wouldn't have done anything. It is a thick report with numerous measures taken by the government. Week by week, new measures have emerged. I know it's very difficult in many municipalities. It doesn't matter how much money is spent. However, there is no one to employ with the skills needed to deal with these matters in the social services. It is not so simple that rapid legislation can change this situation. Human resources are limited. It takes time to find staff. I know that many pensioners, at the request of former colleagues, have gone back and started working part-time. It is amazing that some processing problems have been solved that way. There is a lot of work on this at all levels, and when I read the report, I find it quite fascinating how many decisions the government has managed to take in a short time. I share the view that it is not good that so many people have not been investigated. It is not good that there are people stuck in the system. But we got into that situation when there was such an incredibly rapid increase last autumn. I find it hard to believe that this could be dealt with more quickly. It's starting to work a little slow here and be in the country, and we'll be happy about that. I know that many people who are far above retirement age are willing to work on this. It's about getting people to work with this, and it's not that easy. It is not just a question of the government providing money, but there must be people with the skills to do this. Some are that we try to speed up validation so that even new arrivals can help with their skills.
i-4826adaf846a1061-192	Mrs. Old President! In 2015, Sweden received over 35,000 unaccompanied minors seeking asylum. It was a doubling compared to previous years and a significant proportion of all unaccompanied minors seeking asylum in EU countries. The terrible civil war that is going on in the world is a painful fiasco for the United Nations and for the countries, including Sweden, that are included there. Suffering in and around Syria, in refugee camps and for refugees stopped in Greece is undetectable. Sweden has and will take a great responsibility to do everything to get the international community to finally put an end to the fighting. Sweden will also increase its already large humanitarian aid efforts and increase the reception of refugees by EU countries. Here, Sweden will continue to be an example. The large number of asylum seekers to Sweden has made every effort to ensure that children are cared for in the best possible way on an employee, non-profit or political basis. Despite all these efforts, the task is so great that many are torn down, and municipalities report that they cannot cope with the tasks they are assigned, which is of course alarming. We also receive very worrying reports that monitoring of those who are supposed to take responsibility for children, such as HVB homes, sometimes fails seriously. It is therefore extremely important that the state and municipalities jointly allocate the necessary resources to this at all stages, so that the children are well off, and at the same time work as efficiently as possible and balancing rules so that the resources can be used optimally, recruitment is carried out with adequate quality requirements and control is improved. The Center Party has laid down lines of proposals for better integration and reception of all asylum seekers, of course also with a special focus on children. I would like to express great admiration and gratitude to everyone who, in this area in today's Sweden, is making great and sometimes heroic efforts, both in the line and through voluntary efforts, to find the best possible solutions with the best interests of the children in focus under often very stressed conditions and great time pressure. The committee report deals with a number of motions from mainly general exercise time which propose new initiatives for a national emergency shelter responsible for unaccompanied minors and a national review of the recruitment of family homes. I believe that the committee partially responds to the proposals and refers to the very extensive and possibly somewhat unstructured work that is going on under great pressure in the government, authorities and municipalities. More than nine pages of the report summarise all the measures initiated by the government and which authorities, municipalities and control bodies are working hard to investigate and implement in the midst of the enormous workload. Let me give you a few examples. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare will design an incentive initiative to strengthen staffing in social care for children and young people and also allocate SEK 24 million to municipalities – SEK 86 000 per municipality – for educational and skills interventions. The government has commissioned MSB to coordinate the management of the refugee situation by responsible actors at national level. Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils listed in October 2015, five months ago, immediate need for regulatory changes or exceptions to existing regulations to facilitate municipalities in the reception of unaccompanied minors. According to information from the Ministry of Social Affairs, you are looking at possible regulatory simplifications. It may be a question for the Government before her upcoming speech, when the answers to the Association of Local Authorities come. They want immediate action, and this is urgent. The Government has commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to coordinate information efforts to family homes and others and to review its own regulations and advice on HVB homes. In January 2016, the Government instructed the National Board of Health and Welfare to conduct an in-depth analysis of the consequences for social services in view of the current refugee situation. These were just a few examples of all the measures initiated by the government that take place in authorities and municipalities. It shows what pressure the reception system is under. It is difficult to absorb and of course very serious. Furthermore, in November 2015, the Government appointed a special investigator to propose a coherent system for the reception and residence of asylum seekers and new arrivals. The committee believes that there is now reason to make a principled assessment of the role of the municipality and the state in the reception of unaccompanied minors and that various solutions can and must be considered here. There is a need for a review of the reception system, says the committee, as the investigator already appointed could do. That's the situation. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-4826adaf846a1061-207	Mrs. Old President! I would like to begin my speech by saying that I am extremely pleased that we have gathered here today to debate unaccompanied minors and therefore children in the care of society. For the first time in many years, these children, the ones we have promised to take care of, have become a real political issue. I can't believe it took a refugee crisis to see what shortcomings we have in our systems. Let us therefore do the right thing from the start and start this debate at the right end. It may sometimes sound as if the situation we find ourselves in and the shortcomings we see are due to the fact that many people have sought protection in our country. This view has been reinforced by the fact that the government has made it almost impossible for unaccompanied minors to come here. But it is not the unaccompanied children who put social services and their activities out of balance. In fact, it is the long-term removal of social services that we are now seeing the consequences of. The fundamental reason for the situation we are in today is the political priorities implemented by the previous government and the Swedish Democrats. Through the effective dismantling of our common social security systems, people who have become ill or unemployed have no longer been covered by our common safety net but have instead fallen into the lap of social services. At the same time, the distribution of resources from the poor to the rich has increased the gaps, and social problems have become worse. The crisis we see in social services is therefore the bill we pay for years of unfair economic distribution and a political disinterest for those who live in vulnerability. Because with your hand on your heart, no one in here can claim that it's news that social services don't have the power to comply with the law and keep the staff or that children don't get the help they're entitled to. It is no new information for you that the situation of family homes has been strained for a long time. It does not come as a surprise that you have made it quite possible for fixar-Frasse-Frasse and Crazy Gunnar to start HVB homes and earn millions on children in vulnerability, although Cecilia Widegren and the Moderates now seem to have turned a little and do not think there should be any market in welfare. You can't possibly have missed that we were already exercising last year that our HVB homes, where we placed unaccompanied minors, were not up to the mark and that there was already a shortage of space. Or did you vote down the motion because you hadn't read it? To now pretend that all of this is new because it bubbles up when people grow up is dishonest. We have known for a long time that the social services for children and young people have shortcomings from grain to loaf. However, the consequences have not been extensive enough, so the reactions have not been resolved. Today, it is even the next few children who will have to pay the highest price for politics turning their eyes away. Today, it is all the children on the run who are desperately trying to find a country that receives them, which stands with the bill in hand. In the meantime, we stand here, one of the richest countries in the world, taking a break. It's really shameful. Mrs. Old President! It goes without saying that it has been a very stressful time for the municipalities that have been responsible for the children who are now enriching our country. No one could have predicted that the world around us would burn so violently that millions of people would have to flee. This is an extraordinary situation that presents us with new challenges. But it also gives us opportunities. We can use this situation as a lever to do what we would have done long ago. That is precisely why I am so glad that we are having this debate today. It gives me hope that we can now see the crisis that the social secretaries have been warning about for years. It gives me hope that we will take this issue with the strength that has been asked for for so long, that we will find solutions both on how to get an effective and well-functioning reception system and create the conditions for social services to let people's needs control and that we will finally create a child and youth care system where children and their rights are in focus regardless of their needs. The committee's proposal for a decision mentions some of the work under way which we believe are steps in the right direction. We are very pleased that we have been able to contribute to the billion-dollar investment in social care for children and young people. We very much welcome the work being done on the LVU investigation, and we fully agree that there is a need for a review of the reception system. In the light of the work that is now under way, we will be calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. But if my hope is not to turn into deepest disappointment, the government must confess color. You are now facing an absolutely crucial crossroads. It is now up to you to prove whether you have the courage to build a stronger society that is capable of facing change or whether you instead want to continue building the castle for the already strong, for which we are now paying a high price.
i-4826adaf846a1061-220	Mrs. Old President! Of the 60 million refugees in the world, about half are children. Not since World War II have so many people been on the run. Of course, among those most affected are the children. There is talk of a refugee crisis. Yes, it is a crisis – for those who flee. Last year 35,369 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum in Sweden. This is an incredible increase from the previous year, when it was 7,049. That was then considered to be many. It is a crisis for the 35,369, and from that point of view this question should also be discussed: how do we make the reception as good as possible? When it doesn't work, they're the ones who get hit. In order to get an overall picture of the situation, we organised a public hearing in the Social Affairs Committee. There, representatives of the government and various authorities, as well as municipalities, associations and associations, spoke. We got a fairly coherent picture of a severe pressure with a lack of social security officers in particular. In Sweden there are many socionomists, but they do not want to work in the municipalities. They don't want to work in social services with kids and young people. For many municipalities it is difficult to manage to give children a good reception. There's no staff. Good men are missing. There's no premises. The media image of the unaccompanied is often very black. It says there's trouble at accommodations, and everyone remembers the terrible tragedy in Mölndal. At the same time, however, it is not the only picture, not the only true one, and several representatives of the hearing that we had also raised the fact that they did not recognize themselves in that description. It is about ordinary children and young people who have often experienced terrible things, they said among other things. It's hard in a lot of places. The children's ombudsman, who was also present, spoke about his report from the arrival homes, where they had talked to the children themselves. There was frightening reading about vulnerability, loneliness and uncertainty: to come to a dwelling where one should be no more than 48 hours but three months later remain, to be the only girl among a hundred boys or to be the only one who speaks a certain language. The fact that they have been here for so long is because the municipalities have not been able to accept the children because there has simply been no room. The whole day was a bit of a speed dating. Everyone had a very short time to talk. But it was a way to get an overview and an opportunity to see where we need to get deeper. For example, I see the issue of custody as a major challenge. One problem is that children can live in a certain municipality and have their social security secretary and good man somewhere else. As far as good men are concerned, there are several things to deal with, both that you can have your good man somewhere else, and that they are difficult to find in many places. But there is more, because the system of good men is not designed for the good man to function as a deputy guardian. Never has Sweden had so many children without parents in its care. The mission as a good man is not enough. Who will contact the school when something has happened or when something has gone well? Who's going to the development talks? It's about so much more than law. Then there are the support housing. I sometimes feel in the debate that supporting housing is the magic wand that will solve the problem for the municipalities. First of all, it's a wrong entrance. It is not primarily the municipalities that have a situation that needs to be resolved, but the children and young people who come here. Furthermore, the idea was that those young people who are ready to leave an HVB home and start standing on their own or who do not need the care offered in an HVB home but still need community support would have the opportunity to live in an assisted housing. Thus, the form of housing is not invented for unaccompanied minors. Of course, there are also well-functioning unaccompanied minors and young people, especially young people, who could live in assisted housing. But it is not a quick fix, not a cheaper and faster solution. Specific reasons for staying in an assisted dwelling shall be required. And to find out who this is, a more thorough investigation is needed, and it is hardly possible to start with a placement in an assisted housing. For many of those who come here, the journey to Sweden has been paved by abuse and rape. They're not feeling well. Then we've just been talking about the trip here. The question is, what have they experienced before they even left? Children need support and present adults – adults with the right skills to meet the children where they are. Often a youth who is well - functioning during the day can have terrible nightmares or simply not sleep at all. No 17-year-old should have to deal with it alone, but should receive the support and assistance to which he is entitled. It makes me a little worried that the design of the support housing and the regulations are not already in place but will come later, in the spring. They should already be there. If you think of placing several young people together and leaving them unattended overnight, we are out in dangerous waters. Society has assumed parental responsibility. Then we should also act as a responsible and caring parent. How often do we leave our own teenagers alone during the night with 20 others of the same age? We Liberals raised this issue already when we debated supported housing as a form of housing and will follow developments closely. I have also highlighted the children who are disappearing in this House in the past. Every year hundreds of children disappear from our accommodations, several as small as in pre-school age. I don't think anyone thinks it'll be better if there aren't adults there to look after them. The need for specific coordination efforts to prevent the disappearance of children and concerted efforts to find those who have disappeared is urgent. It is also, of course, urgent that those who come back be followed up. Many municipalities have an unbelievably tight situation. I'm from Örebro County. It is a county where many municipalities are at the top of the list of municipalities that have taken the greatest responsibility based on their own size. It is usually small municipalities, such as Laxå and Ljusnarsberg, that have made heroic efforts. There are several positive aspects to this. For example, for the first time in several years, Ställdalen has been given a grocery store. We have schools that were under threat of closure that are still there. At the same time, the housing situation is acute in many places. You talk about that it takes 14 years to get an apartment in Stockholm. Did you know that it takes seven years in Örebro? It's not just apartments that there's a shortage of. It is difficult to get access to premises that can function as HVB homes and support housing. I am thinking of support housing in group housing. Of course, it is almost hopeless to create satellite apartments, when the housing situation looks like it does. The alternative must not be to start compromising physical safety, such as fire protection. Of course, placing children in the same room, two or more, may be necessary in some cases. But we also hear about accommodation adapted for 14 where there live at least twice as many. Is it strange, then, that there will be a problem? Crow many people on too small a surface, add traumatic experiences, anxiety about the future and a large portion of idleness – there are few groups that would work! Of course, some things need to be resolved urgently. But urgent solutions must not become permanent. And some urgent solutions are not solutions but almost panic attacks. I hear about a social breakdown. The tone of the debate is sometimes very high. I mentioned Ljusnarsberg Municipality in Örebro County. All social security officers have resigned. But if you listen to what they say, it's not about a sudden crisis. The social services throughout Sweden have been under great pressure for many years, and the municipalities have not been able to meet the new demands of support, family law, abuse and child care. Instead, reference is made to the lack of further training and opportunities to develop at work, the lack of increased resources despite new laws and regulations and the lack of prevention. In order to solve the emergency situation, it has been proposed that politicians go in and do the jobs of social secretaries. However, I do not think politicians should go in and take over the duties of social secretaries, even if this is not a matter of authority, because there is a reason why the education is several years long. Knowledge and experience are needed. For the same reason, I do not think that the proposal to relax the requirement for socio-economic education is particularly good either. It is not primarily a lack of sociologists that we see. However, far too few people want to work in the municipality's social services. The current system for the reception of unaccompanied refugee children needs to be strengthened and improved, both directly and subsequently. We have a huge integration challenge ahead of us. How do we make these children and young people feel that they are part of our society? How do we make them feel that it is their society as much as ours? How do we make these children and young people safe adults? How do we give them the opportunity to evolve from their pre-conditions? We from the Liberals will follow this issue and developments closely. This debate is a long way from being concluded.
i-4826adaf846a1061-242	Madam President-in-Office of the Council. I am pleased to be part of this debate. It is really important, as several of the previous speakers have pointed out. I am also pleased with the cooperation we have had in 2015 and 2016 on this issue. I would like to point out that today we are talking about unaccompanied minors and social services, but it is important that the social care system works for all children who need it. We have therefore asked the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare for an in-depth analysis of the overall situation of social care for children and young people. Many have made great efforts during this time. This applies to staff in social care for children and young people, but also to staff in housing, at the Finnish Immigration Service, in schools, in health care and also volunteers. From the government we have taken a large number of decisions on resources and other support. Not only will we receive these children, but we will also take care of them. I would, of course, like to join in the speech that Yasmine Larsson has just made and also to thank Jan Lindholm for his speech. We work closely together to improve the situation for these children. I think we have had a good dialogue with the entire Committee on Social Affairs. The report on which today's debate is concerned deals with a number of motions from general exercise time and also with a motion brought about by the event of greater importance, namely the KD's motion on a national social emergency services. There is much to say on the matter, but I will start with the question of family homes and how to recruit and train them. Family homes are a good form of housing, as it is intended, for many children in need of housing outside their own home, especially for younger children. Each child should have his or her own assessment. That is the starting point of the system. Last autumn, when the number of unaccompanied refugee children increased dramatically, the need for family homes also increased. The number of individuals who wanted to help and open their homes also increased, and in addition, a large number of family homes grew up – some with good quality and good intentions, others less serious. It was clear that the number of expressions of interest was sometimes greater than the municipalities could take care of, and many who reported their interest were not aware of what the mission meant. To face this, the government has taken a number of measures. As early as October last year, the Government commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to initiate and coordinate national information efforts on family homes, on-call homes and good men for unaccompanied minors and specially appointed guardians. The aim is to make the need visible and increase knowledge of what the mission means to ensure access to good family homes. The assignment in its entirety will be presented in April 2018, but the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare will submit proposals to strengthen the business. We have since received reports of abuses in rogue family homes and family homes. This morning at the latest, such a report appeared in the media. This, of course, is totally unacceptable. The purpose of the resources we spend on the reception of unaccompanied refugee children is to ensure that children receive a good reception, not that rogue actors can become richer. We have therefore given Care Analysis the task of really reviewing how these homes are run and what we get for the resources we spend on different forms of investment. Furthermore, we are currently preparing further proposals to strengthen the safety of children placed in family homes. Issues such as permits and background checks will be addressed, and I will return to this shortly. During the autumn we had a good cooperation to quickly get legislation through for another form of investment: support housing. In order for each child to get the right placement, a variety of measures is needed. At the moment we are monitoring progress, as has also been mentioned here, with regard to the opening up of assisted housing. I expect delivery in this area. At present, the regulations are known for both support housing and HVB as they are out for consultation and soon to be decided. Then I hope that the number of supported housing will increase. They should, of course, be used for those children who can handle that particular form. For the government, it is important that every child should receive the care that he or she needs. The family homes or other accommodations and the good men who do very important assignments should have the support they need, and the money invested should go to the right things. With regard to resources for social services and municipalities, I would like to remind you of the situation in which social services were in which the government took office. We know that in many municipalities it was called that it was difficult or impossible to recruit, and many social security officers chose not to work there even when we took office. It quickly became clear how neglected this activity was even when the government took office. Under the bourgeois governments a large number of laws were tightened up, and some of them were well-lawed. However, documentation requirements increased. It was good for the rule of law, at least in theory. At the same time, however, resources were reduced, and resources corresponding to these needs were not replaced. Social services must be able to do good social work, and that requires resources. That is why we now need to build up social services. I am therefore pleased that the government, together with the Left Party, decided early on to make the greatest effort on this business ever. 1 billion in four years will go to staffing and development of social services. It is very welcome, I believe, among those above all women who work and toil in this business. Within the framework of the refugee settlement made by the government with the opposition last year, an additional EUR 8 billion was also decided upon for the municipalities. This money is not earmarked, but I expect and assume that the municipalities use it in the best way according to the needs that exist. I am therefore pleased that we are now beginning to get some reports from the municipalities that see social services as the key function as it is. We also have a close dialogue with SKL, with social services in the municipalities and with the trade unions to find out how the work is progressing. I also make continuous visits to various activities. The national coordinator Cecilia Grefve, who coordinates issues relating to social care for children and young people, was mentioned here. She makes at least 100 visits in at least 50 municipalities and reports back to me and the department at regular intervals. I have tightened up her mission to get as much knowledge of concrete proposals as possible. We have also implemented several of her proposals. As far as the motion for a national emergency social emergency services is concerned, as we have heard, last year 35 000 unaccompanied children came to Sweden. Each child has its own conditions and should be taken care of within the existing system. They have social services for this purpose in the municipalities. It is also clear, as we have heard, that social care for children and young people is not dimensioned to this great burden. That is why large additional resources have been allocated to the municipalities, and we have made a large number of decisions on the part of the government. This is also reflected in the report. In addition, the government has made the difficult decisions that you are well aware of regarding changes in migration policy. One of the main reasons for this is the need for social services to recover. The State Department Board has very important assignments in Swedish society. Their main task is to carry out individually adapted forced care and implement closed juvenile care. Making a change like the one proposed by the Christian Democrats would fundamentally change the agency's mission. The proposal also means that Sis would be allowed to carry out aid assessments, which is also an enormous change. That is why I am not prepared to investigate precisely in this direction, but I am no stranger to the fact that we need to review the system for the reception of unaccompanied minors in a broader perspective. We know that the number of children on the run is high, and we are going to build systems that are good for it and of good quality. Finally, I would like to thank all the social secretaries who are working very hard on these issues today. I have great respect for their work. I also hope that the spotlight on this activity will remain and, above all, that we, who are involved, all the players together, will not only be able to solve the problematic and urgent situation, but will also be able to ensure that we make investments for the future. I am also keen that this issue should always be characterised by an equality and gender perspective.
i-4826adaf846a1061-265	Mrs. Old President! This is a strained and serious situation. A total of 66 municipalities have so far lex Sarah reported themselves because they do not live up to their commitments. Sweden needs a temporary refugee break. Reality has changed rapidly. Then it is regrettable that the weak left-wing government is not fully reaching out in order to reach a broad consensus on the direction, not taking the step and reconsidering the proposals. Only today, 160 different proposals for improvement were rejected in the Committee on Social Affairs. Clearly, there is a time to do things and to reconsider things. The government saves on supervision and halved frequency supervision as late as December. Quality is failing and basic quality requirements are rejected. I have some questions for the government and responsible Minister. Firstly, is this new strained situation for social services a new normal situation, and can it lead to displacement effects? Secondly, will the government comply with the moderate proposal to increase resources to the responsible supervisory authority in the coming and coming years? Thirdly, will the government follow the moderate proposal to introduce medical age assessments as soon as possible, so that we do more right from the start and listen to the criticism that exists in the meetings that take place on an everyday basis between unaccompanied children and social services workers?
i-4826adaf846a1061-270	Mrs. Old President! I thank Cecilia Widegren very much for the questions. As Cecilia Widegren knows, we took over in a very tight position. The government represented by Cecilia Widegren, who was in power for eight years, handed over a very pressured social service, where it was already very difficult both to recruit and to retain social secretaries, even though they were trained as sociologists. That is why we have taken a large number of measures, which we have talked about in various contexts and which are also set out in the report, to improve the situation. We have also directed resources to this activity at a rate and scale that has not been seen before, I would say. I am very keen that there should be no displacement effects, i.e. that other children, for example, cannot have their concerns investigated. As I said in my speech, we have therefore decided, among other things, on all these resources, but have also given a special mandate to the National Board of Health and Welfare to analyse the situation in depth. This shall not be a normal mode. We're gonna make this a long-term investment. Ivo was given additional resources to start up his authority, and it is they who, so to speak, are going out now. I am well aware of Ivos's situation. We are following this issue and will come back to the budget. That's my answer. In the past, we have made it possible for Ivo to have the resources to increase his permit work, which is undoubtedly very important. Age assessments are an issue that the National Board of Health and Welfare is looking at. For me, it is very important that it is precisely children who are covered by children's rights and the special protection that children enjoy. We wait for the National Board of Health and Welfare's review of the issue and will come back to that.
i-4826adaf846a1061-275	Mrs. Old President! During its eight years, the Alliance government contributed 57 billion in new resources to prosperity. It is the biggest investment ever made in Swedish history on new resources for welfare. I'd be happy to take the game of new resources to welfare. We must now do more right from the start – hence these questions to the government and the government. I am pleased to hear that the government will monitor closely and consistently that this will not lead to evasive effects. I believe that here from the Riksdag we will be following extremely closely what is happening in the municipalities. Clearly, the 66 lex Sarah notifications are a clear signal that something can be going on, and you should take that very seriously. The Government chooses to fit the question to the budget negotiations regarding resources to the supervisory authority. Unfortunately, however, we now have worrying reports every week. My follow-up question to the Government will be whether the proposal before the WAP will consider whether resources can be added during the current year so that this does not occur and that we will have more stringent and clearer supervision of quality from the outset. Will the Social Democrats take this initiative in the negotiations that are taking place around the Spring Bill? My final question is about the medical age assessments. It is an issue that we have discussed quite a few times and for a long time. The National Board of Health and Welfare described at our public hearing that this proposal is now coming. Is the government willing to do that?
i-4826adaf846a1061-279	Mrs. Old President! A few 57 billion did not see social services during the time when you were in government power, Cecilia Widegren. On the contrary, their work was made more difficult during this time. As far as Ivo is concerned, I will return, as I said. We are following developments very closely. The same applies to age assessments, where we await the proposal from the National Board of Health and Welfare. I take this issue very seriously. I follow it very closely and work with it daily, and I will continue to do so until the situation is much more stable.
i-TNARY3doERvtizMqx2R6z3	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister for Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Anna Johansson and Minister Mehmet Kaplan. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-4826adaf846a1061-282	Madam President, I would like I'm gonna ask the housing minister a question. In DN Debate on 13 January, the government raised the issue that one could go from the master plan directly to building permits. This is an idea that we Moderates have been proposing for some time. In view of the book crisis in which we find ourselves, and if the government is serious about its regulatory simplifications, I can see that there is a ready-made legislative proposal enabling this to be done for the municipalities. Unfortunately, it was rejected during the last parliamentary term by the current majority parties. My question is whether the Minister for Housing would be willing to implement the bill and to do so quickly. It's a complete bill.
i-3ViazxxiduQUgYqoKx97hV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Ewa Thalén, for the question. There was a reason why it was rejected last term of office. Therefore, there is also a basis that we are now putting into the housing policy talks, where Ewa Thalén Finné will probably participate. Her political and economic spokesperson in the party will in any case do so. This will include, among other things, this issue. The reason we want to do this is a major problem. When we make regulatory changes, it is important that the breadth of this House is as good as possible so that regulatory changes do not change every four years. We shall have an adequate and good regulatory flora that favours the construction of housing for people in our country so that companies can anticipate what applies.
i-4826adaf846a1061-288	Madam President, I would like I can see that if the government was keen to implement what is called for by the municipalities, rapid regulatory changes, there is a very broad majority in this House for that particular proposal. It is a proposal put forward by the Alliance. Allowing municipalities not to have to adopt a detailed plan when they want to build would simplify. Sometimes I wonder if there is any real interest in regulatory changes.
i-4826adaf846a1061-290	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ewa Thalén Finné, for raising this important issue! This is about two things. One is the will of the various political parties. It will now be tested in the housing policy talks conducted by me and the Minister for Finance. The second question is what the municipalities want and do not want. This is an issue that tests local self-government. Then it is important that we from the parties that sit in these talks are serious, have a good preparation and agree widely.
i-4826adaf846a1061-294	Madam President, I would like No one has escaped the situation of refugees in Greece these days. I was with a delegation from the Environment Party in Samos a couple of weeks ago. I do not think there are many who are untouched by seeing life jackets in the water and on the beaches and also how the heroes of the yellow boats save people on the Mediterranean every day. Last year, some 850 000 people came to Greece. I would like to ask the Minister for Migration how he works in this situation so that more countries in Europe can take joint responsibility on this issue and how Sweden can make it particularly easier for Greece in this critical situation.
i-4826adaf846a1061-296	Madam President, I would like I think we all agree that we cannot allow Greece to become one large refugee camp and that development goes that way. We must ensure that we help each other as members of the European Union in order to facilitate the situation in Greece and to gain control of the situation. This is an issue that really tests the whole of the European Union and solidarity between our countries. It is important that all EU Member States live up to our fundamental values. Solidarity between our countries is part of it, but also of human dignity, and we ensure that we treat the people who are now coming to Europe in a dignified way. I think there are three things that have to happen. The first is to gain control of the border between Turkey and Greece so that it does not just continue to be filled with people fleeing. That requires an agreement with Turkey. The second thing that needs to happen is that we are able to evacuate people from Greece to the rest of the European Union in accordance with the decisions we have taken within the European Union. The third is to establish legal routes from Turkey into the EU.
i-4826adaf846a1061-301	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. The importance of legal pathways in Europe cannot be underestimated and also that EU countries share responsibility. The question of keeping the external border also makes the way for those who flee even more dangerous. The question is what price it can get in the form of more deaths in the Mediterranean and how the Government sees such a risk.
i-4826adaf846a1061-304	Madam President, I would like I think we all agree that we cannot have what it looks like now that thousands of people are travelling over in these ranks and dangerous boats in a way that puts their lives at risk. This must not continue to happen. Part of a solution is that, after all, one has an organisation so that one has control over the border crossing. Then there's the other two things. It is a question of ensuring that within Europe we redistribute and also ensure that these legal routes are made from the refugee routes to Europe.
i-4826adaf846a1061-306	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Migration. In recent weeks, there have been reports of a large increase in communicable diseases and that these are increasing as more and more refugees go to Sweden. The Swedish Public Health Agency reports that, among other things, TB cases have doubled in ten years. This is worrying and something for which we Swedish democrats have been warning for a long time. According to the Swedish Public Health Agency, health examinations are considered to be a basic prerequisite for the detection and treatment of infected persons. We understand that the current critical refugee situation affects the already strained activities of health care. At the same time, it is incredibly important to directly catch those who are infected. Therefore, we Swedish democrats want mandatory health examinations to be a natural part of the asylum process and to take place as soon as possible after arrival in Sweden. What measures does the government intend to take to raise the proportion of refugees undergoing health examinations?
i-4826adaf846a1061-310	Madam President, I would like There is one such assignment that the Migration Agency will solve together with the county councils. It is clear that it is important, especially for the people themselves that it is about. It is important to ensure that they get a good reception in Sweden and that as many as possible can deal with any health problems they may have. Here we are fortunate, I would say, to have a well-functioning healthcare system in Sweden. We are a welfare society. I would like to say that we have much better conditions than most other countries. At the same time, we have a great challenge in that there were many people coming to Sweden last year – 160 000. As I said, the Migration Agency must continue to work together with the county councils to try to solve the problems.
i-4826adaf846a1061-313	Madam President, I would like It is positive that the government is taking the situation and the increasing risk of infection seriously. Increasing incentives to health surveillance has clearly not proved sufficient, as the proportion of surveys has not increased in recent years. We therefore maintain that it is necessary to introduce mandatory health tests as soon as possible upon arrival in Sweden in order to get a higher proportion to undergo a health examination and to be helped to prevent further spread of infection.
i-4826adaf846a1061-315	Madam President, I would like The proportion of surveys has not increased, but the number of surveys has increased as the organisation has been expanded. It is important, above all, for the individual to get the help he needs. Here is the assignment for the Migration Agency and the county councils to continue working on this, and I have great confidence that they will solve this in the future.
i-4826adaf846a1061-318	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation. Sweden remains a leading country of knowledge and innovation. But other countries in the world around us are on the line, especially when it comes to turning their research investments into what is called innovations in new businesses and jobs. An important aspect of Swedish innovation policy is support for what is called pilot and demonstration facilities. Many Swedish companies, including the Volvo Group that we have recently met, but also a number of other industries are carrying out heavy investment decisions on research in order to develop new products that are in demand on the market. This kind of facility is needed.
i-4826adaf846a1061-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. It is a fact that Sweden is a leading innovation country. We are ranked in many contexts where you rank the innovation capacity of different countries. But when we look in a historical perspective, over the past ten years, we see that we have lost a lot of research investments in Sweden. It is above all private investment that has gone to other countries. We have to turn this around. One way to do that is to focus precisely on test and demo facilities. There is a great interest from private industry to be involved in sharing development with society to drive the next generation of products and services. This is precisely one of the issues that the study that has been presented on the changed state venture capital has looked at. They propose a demo fund, and that is exactly the kind of thing that the government intends to return to within just a few weeks when we present the bill on state venture capital.
i-4826adaf846a1061-324	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We recently met with the Volvo Group. Volvo is one of several global companies that says: We are prepared to continue our investment with Sweden as a base and to start with it. Among other things, it highlights the investment in smart industry as an important step for exports and competitiveness. In this case, industry and services are closely linked. A lot goes into each other. How does the Minister of Economic Affairs see us as continuing to be a leader in this competition?
i-4826adaf846a1061-326	Madam President, I would like In the new industrialization strategy, which the government has presented, there is precisely the perspective of smart industry. One of the focus areas is Testbed Sweden. How can we change our system so that there will be more of this type of plant in Sweden? There you can try new innovations in real life too. It can be about elderly care with new robots or technical solutions, in Gothenburg with self-driving cars or in Stockholm with 5G technology to create the smart city. This is exactly in line with the new industrialisation strategy presented by the government.
i-4826adaf846a1061-328	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Anna Johansson. Today, the Swedish Tax Agency presented its report on the activities in Sweden in 2015. It describes an industry in free cases that affects 10 000 road haulage companies and employs 86 000 people. It's suspected cheating in 80% of the investigated cases. EUR 44 million in increased tax has been charged in 49 investigation cases. There is a great creativity in the arrangement when it comes to dumping the terms and avoiding the tax. The report describes an unacceptable situation. The cheating leads to working conditions that are under any criticism and an industry that goes on its knees. The government's work is too slow and insufficient, I think. Now I wonder what new measures the Minister intends to take with regard to the report and whether it is not time to introduce the Dutch model in Sweden as well.
i-4826adaf846a1061-331	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. This is one of the issues on which we have spent the most time and energy in the year, just over, on which I have been Minister responsible for these issues. We meet many riders and drivers who testify to what it looks like on Swedish roads and what the competitive situation looks like. This is both an environmental problem, as it is often worse cars, as well as a health and safety problem, and a competition problem. The market is being sidelined. We will continue to work on the issues. However, in this particular investigation, it is more a matter of enforcement than of the need for new rules. That is why I very much welcome the control work carried out by the authorities. You should not be able to engage in this type of activity and feel that you do not risk getting caught. I think the Swedish Tax Agency's report is very good in this way; it shows that you are being prosecuted when you behave in a way that is not legal in Sweden.
i-4826adaf846a1061-335	Madam President, I would like The whole industry, and everyone who works with this, requires new rules and new measures. The Swedish Tax Agency also says, for example, that they need public registers of all companies operating in Sweden. It is not true, therefore, that it is just a question of compliance, but more action is needed. The government is working on it, but it's going too slow and it's happening too little. Again, are you not prepared now to take hold of this and introduce the Dutch model? That is something your party promised before the election that you would do.
i-4826adaf846a1061-337	Madam President, I would like In such matters, which have been allowed to go far too long without action, is perceived and feels all we do is that it is a little too late and a little too little. This is an issue on which we have a great deal of focus, but we should also be sure that we are taking the right action. This is why we have given a major commission to the Swedish Transport Agency, which is about ordering responsibility and if it needs to be developed. It is about winter tires on cars and following up on the new rules that we have in this area. We will continue to focus.
i-4826adaf846a1061-340	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Enterprise. Sweden needs a rich business community with a variety of companies, jobs, growth and development. In the public sector, there is a great potential for companies to bring their products and services to the market. It is at least 600 billion, but we are talking about figures of 1 000 billion, where it is possible to sell to the public. That's a lot of money. The government is now making proposals to procure from those with similar collective agreements. 60% of enterprises do not use this model for their working life. For example, it could be agriculture, family businesses or small businesses – something that all parties say they are protecting. I would like to know how the Minister for Economic Affairs views this. It is, of course, closing doors for these companies in view of your proposal.
i-4826adaf846a1061-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. In these days, it is also important to note that the start-up rate went up by 25% in the last month compared with a year ago. There is therefore a sharp increase in the number of start-ups in Sweden right now. Procurement is an issue that is really discussed among entrepreneurs and among municipalities in Sweden. The government has really taken a strong stand there. We have moved the issue from the Swedish Competition Authority to have a new procurement authority to be able to focus on helping municipalities and county councils to work smarter with procurement. Contracts should be broken down into smaller parts so that small and medium-sized enterprises can be eligible for procurement. They have often felt that they have not been able to participate when there have been huge procurements that have made it impossible for SMEs to get in touch at all with the public sector as purchasers. We are taking a strong stance on public procurement in Sweden, and this is a measure that I think is good for small and medium-sized enterprises.
i-4826adaf846a1061-346	Madam President, I would like Yes, it was a question of force. Agriculture does not have a collective agreement-like condition, so it becomes strong to exclude companies from participating. Students, elderly patients and their families are today asking for more locally produced products on the dining tables. With the door you are now using, you will close the possibility for companies to participate at all. The policy of Moderates is that there should be a variety of companies with smart solutions and ultimately good products and services. Why doesn't the government have the good deal in the center?
i-4826adaf846a1061-348	Madam President, I would like There are many municipalities listening with great ears to this debate. Previously it was almost impossible to work with requirements in procurement that meant taking advantage of locally produced and environmentally friendly products and services. Now there is a whole new authority that has the task of making it possible to work with small and medium-sized enterprises. It is strange that the Moderates should always go on collective agreements, that there is no situation in Sweden where it is obvious with collective agreement-like conditions in their operations so that municipal money is not used to dump salaries and conditions in Sweden.
i-4826adaf846a1061-352	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister of Housing. The housing crisis has gone from being difficult to super-acute. It is mainly the municipalities that have ended up in the bullet hole. For example, Minister of Housing Mehmet Kaplan has threatened with sanctions against those municipalities where the building act is low. It gives a picture that it is the state that is driving housing construction, but in practice it is usually the state representative county administrative board that is the big brake ball. Recently, plans for 800 homes in Marievik in Stockholm were stopped. One of the objections was that the houses would be visible from the World Heritage Forest Cemetery – six kilometres away from the apartments. In the midst of an acute housing crisis, the prospect of the dead is deemed to be more important than housing for living people. It is quite clear that something must be done. There are many more examples in Stockholm. Isn't it time to clean up your own house? A recent investigation suggested that binding planning decisions should be made and national interests reviewed. What does the Minister of Housing himself do?
i-4826adaf846a1061-357	Madam President, I would like Robert Hannah follows a liberal tradition of trying to paint complicated things as simple and thus take cheap points. In this case, it is the municipal plan monopoly. It is necessary to decide at the local level how best to create the conditions for housing construction. This is also a municipality that has changed the building of housing and doubled the number of dwellings to be built by the commons. It is from the old majority, in which Robert Hannahs's own party was involved, to the new majority who have switched up housing and have plans to build even more. Robert Hannahs's question is one of the important issues that should be dealt with cross-sectorally. It is about the entrances of several different parties, and we will discuss them in the future.
i-4826adaf846a1061-360	Madam President, I would like The Green Party said this weekend that it wants to receive 150 000 refugees in Sweden this year. Last year, Sweden received 160 000 refugees. Where are they going to live? Is it more important for the dead to have a better view than alive? Is it more important to order containers for several billions in all municipalities in Sweden than to build real homes where they are needed? We need to review the national interests, and we need to ensure that the county boards do their job. It's the government's job to do it. What does the Government intend to do?
i-4826adaf846a1061-363	Madam President, I would like When discussing and having constructive input into talks, one of the rules and the possibilities for these constructive inputs is that one actually tries to see the complexity of the issue. In this case, it is about the role of county boards. With regard to appeals, we have submitted a proposal to Parliament to remove them in relation to the detailed plan. There is a new noise regulation that allows small homes to be built. We will continue to do this.
i-4826adaf846a1061-365	Madam President, I would like Many municipalities now face a difficult challenge when they find housing for newcomers as well as many other applicants in a short time. Many municipalities are also clear that laws and regulations need to be simplified if municipalities are to resolve the situation and the housing issue in the long term. The big stumbling block, as has been mentioned earlier, is that many say that the clear land that exists is limited by national interests. Nature values, outdoor activities and culture must be protected. Most areas that can be built can have four to five shelters on each other. In addition, many municipalities mention noise levels as an aggravating circumstance. Now I'm giving the Minister of Housing a chance to explain what's the government's entry point. Would you consider making housing a national interest?
i-4826adaf846a1061-368	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Caroline Szyber, for the question! When SKL, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, compiled a summary of how many plans are ready to build, the figure was 173 000 right now. There are just as many more in the coming period. Quite a lot of homes are planned. First of all, blaming the municipalities for everything is wrong and secondly giving us nothing when it comes to speeding up the pace. The government has made the biggest housing political effort in over 20 years. There is a total of SEK 5 1⁄2 billion where there is investment aid, i.e. support for municipalities that want to build and clean-up help to land in central locations. It is bets that are underway. The money will be useful during the year. If we look back, we see no corresponding efforts without the most complaints from the opposition.
i-4826adaf846a1061-373	Madam President, I would like Money has not been paid out because the issues are too complex. When will the government act? Before the New Year Boverket sent out a memorandum saying that the government is given the opportunity to trigger a so-called crisis state. This would mean that Sweden's 290 municipalities do not have to violate the Planning and Construction Act when planning today. When can the government consider moving forward with the proposal?
i-4826adaf846a1061-375	Madam President, I would like It is a little strange to complain that the government has money in its housing budget when you have no money at all. On the other hand, I would of course like to keep the good dialogue that exists between the opposition representatives and the government so that together we can make broad proposals that can pass through the Chamber, with which in some cases the old government did not succeed. That is something I stand up for and will continue to do.
i-4826adaf846a1061-376	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation. Life science is one of Sweden's most important industries. There are many employees, there is a high level of knowledge and, above all, it is important for our exports. An important framework for this is Astra Zeneca's operations in Södertälje and in Mölndal. We Social Democrats have been pushing for many years to find ways to make things easier for the industry. There is now, among other things, a National Innovation Council led by the Prime Minister. It is precisely the question of finding a collaboration programme for life science that is a high priority. A key prerequisite for the industry is to bring new innovations, products and services to the world market.
i-4826adaf846a1061-380	Madam President, I would like Life science is a very special area. It provides export revenues, creates high-quality jobs and gives people a better health. There are few areas that are so fun to work with and where Sweden is as good as in life science. There is enormous potential. It is particularly visible when we look out into the world and see demographic developments. It will bring greater demand for both medical and pharmaceutical equipment. Sweden has a tremendously good position. Within the framework of the collaboration we have in life science, we are working to develop an internationalization programme for life science. We present the investment opportunities available for life science in Sweden so that more international companies will place their research, development, clinical trials and production to Sweden. That is why I was very pleased that Astra Zeneca, in strict international competition, set up the next generation of medicine plants in Södertälje.
i-4826adaf846a1061-382	Madam President, I would like I am as happy as the Minister for Economic Affairs of the new production facility in Södertälje, but I thought I'd come back to this with the complexity of the industry. Another important point the industry has made is to find funding for new ideas and innovations in the early stages. That is why my question is whether the work with the industry that the government has now so well started includes some idea of meeting those particular problems.
i-4826adaf846a1061-384	Madam President, I would like We are working on several fronts on these issues. When it comes to exports, we have a special programme to make life science opportunities visible in Sweden and internationalisation. We are working on the fund-in-fund structure we talked about earlier, with state venture capital, where life science could definitely be a huge winner at controlling more resources in previous phases. In addition, we are working on how we can open up healthcare so that it also becomes an engine for innovation, which not least the life science industry welcomes very much.
i-4826adaf846a1061-389	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson. As everyone knows, we have a very worrying refugee crisis, especially in southern Europe. I think we are all affected by the images that are now being cabled out around the world. We also have a challenging situation here at home. The processing times of the Finnish Immigration Service are almost two years long. There are 20 000 homes missing in the coming months alone. Yesterday, the Migration Agency also requested an extra 28 billion in funding only for 2016. The government has taken a number of measures to dampen the search pressure on Sweden. It's necessary. At the same time, I was puzzled when I took note of the Minister for Education's contribution to the migration debate as late as Friday. According to him, the government supports the view that Sweden is capable of receiving an additional 150 000 people in 2016. Does the Minister of Migration share his government colleague's view on this point?
i-4826adaf846a1061-394	Madam President, I would like It is quite right that Johan Forssell says that we have taken a number of measures to reduce the search pressure. We had to do it. We have 160,000 who arrived last year. Our asylum accommodations are full. That was the background to the announcement of new legislation but also of the ID controls, which we introduced from 4 January. We voted it through in this House. Unfortunately, you Moderates were unable to stand up for it then, but you abstained on the ID checks. But they have been important because we now have control of the situation. 500 – 600 that come per week we can do. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecast has three scenarios. The centenary scenario of 100,000 means that we can manage the reception and the accommodations but still have to use the evacuation housing later this year. We see that we need to steer down to the lowest scenario, which is down to 70 000, in order to be able to graze the queues and have a more manageable situation. That is the assessment we make.
i-4826adaf846a1061-398	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll have to thank the government for the answer. Perhaps I am the one who does not understand, but I do not really understand the answer that was given. Does the Minister of Migration believe that Sweden is capable of receiving 160 000 people in 2016? A yes or a no is good enough.
i-4826adaf846a1061-400	Madam President, I would like It is exactly as I said: if there were to be 100 000 this year, we could just get through the reception situation. We're still going to have to use evacuation accommodations. Should there be more than that – that is, up to 140 000, which is the third scenario that the Migration Agency has – our accommodation sites will run out, probably already at the end of the summer. So the answer to the question is no. We can't handle that situation. In order to gain control of reception, we should, as I said, steer down to the lowest scenario, down to 70 000.
i-4826adaf846a1061-404	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to the Minister for Migration and concerns the Migration Agency's request for an additional SEK 28.4 billion for this year to cope with the asylum situation. But it is also about 32 billion for next year. In other words, over 60 billion are being requested for the next two years to cope with the current migration situation. A report from the Institute of Economics published on Tuesday warns not surprisingly that the tax will have to be increased in order to cope with this. If you do not raise the tax, you will have to take from the basic welfare to cope with the migration policy of the government at all. My question to the Minister is quite simple: how does he think the situation should be dealt with, and how should this be financed? Would he rather raise taxes or cut in welfare?
i-4826adaf846a1061-408	Madam President, I would like I believe that a key issue is to shorten the length of proceedings. The longer you sit and wait, the more it costs. It is also, of course, a matter of ensuring that we have a verifiable situation in terms of the number that comes to Sweden. As I said earlier, thanks to the efforts made by the government last autumn, we now have a verifiable situation – 500, 600, 700 a week. This allows us to focus on the 160 000 who came last year to make sure that they are well received. We will speed up the number of decisions. This year we are talking about nearly 100 000 decisions – 95 000 decisions. In February, the Finnish Immigration Service has been able to graze some of the queues. The decisions are many more than the number that comes in. If we continue to do so, we will be able to cope with the situation.
i-4826adaf846a1061-414	Madam President, I would like It is very positive that the government is trying to shorten the processing times. It is also positive that the government has adopted the Swedish Democrats' long-announced proposals on, among other things, ID controls. But it's something we've been pushing for quite some time, so it's too little and too late. But, Minister of Migration, are we really capable of receiving 100,000 during this year? Does the Minister of Migration think it is worth taking from basic welfare or, for that matter, raising taxes?
i-4826adaf846a1061-417	Madam President, I would like Markus Wiechel talks about taking from the basic welfare. Actually, I think we're never gonna end up there. You know why? Well, we also have a very positive development in the Swedish economy. Last year alone, we had a growth rate of between 31⁄2 and 4%. This rate of growth does not seem to be waning, at least to no great extent. This increases the tax revenue. And when unemployment goes down, that means that the number of payments in that part is falling. Overall, public finances seem to be going quite well.
i-4826adaf846a1061-420	Madam President, I would like It was not long ago that the planned high-speed rail route was to connect Sweden's metropolitan regions. What we currently know is that the cost estimate is non-specific and can land anywhere between 190 and 320 billion SEK. In addition, additional money is needed for round-the-clock investments. Unfortunately, the government parties are not doing much to clarify whether the project can happen at all. There have been many different tours depending on who is asked. When Minister Johansson has been asked, she has expressed concerns – which I share – about the cost picture. But you listen to the leading representatives of the Green Party, which is the second party in government cooperation, in a different way. The cost picture for the new high-speed railway is impossible to understand, and the situation becomes unsustainable when the highest responsible for the Swedish infrastructure within S and MP comes with completely different messages. What's the deal?
i-4826adaf846a1061-426	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Annika Qarlsson! I can give you a free reading tip from the speaker's chair. Yesterday I, Åsa Romson and the group leaders of our two parties here in Parliament wrote an article in which we clarified our view on the high-speed track. We express that it is an extremely important initiative for Sweden. It connects our three largest cities. It provides increased commuting opportunities and thus opportunities for more jobs and more housing. But funding is a challenge. That is why we need to find out more in order to have a sound basis for decision-making. There is the Swedish negotiation going on, but we also need to look at how to reduce costs and get a second opinion on what an alternative would cost. That mission we gave at the government meeting today to the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-4826adaf846a1061-430	Madam President, I would like It is extremely valuable that you give the same message, because it is confusing when you do not know what is going on. It has also been rumored that there are actors who are prepared to go in and build cheaply. Is the notification of interest that is said to have been received from China something that is still being investigated?
i-4826adaf846a1061-432	Madam President, I would like I have not seen such a declaration of interest from China, and if I had seen it, I would have told the Chinese right away that they can turn to the Finnish Transport Administration, because it is the Finnish Transport Administration that is conducting procurements for construction projects relating to infrastructure in this country. But I do not want to make fun of this but to say that this is of course a project that is so big that we will have to turn to a large market to get good tenders and the best available technology that is also adapted to Swedish conditions. But the actual procurement and the question who will receive the assignment will be handled by the Swedish Transport Administration.
i-4826adaf846a1061-434	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Mehmet Kaplan. Sweden is a good country to age in. More and more people are getting older, and the proportion of older people is growing in the country. We have to live longer because of our welfare system. This is gratifying, but it also places high demands on our welfare. Many older people are balled between short-term and regular accommodation. It is not good for the individual or for society. Many lonely seniors and elderly people who live at home in their large houses would like to move to a smaller, adapted accommodation, but it is very difficult. At the same time, we were able to free the large houses for families with children who need them.
i-4826adaf846a1061-438	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Heydari Heydari, for this very important question! Part of the challenge in housing policy is to get moving chains going. We know that there are a lot of people who would like to move away from their current accommodation, which they experience is a little too big, but they don't think they really can afford it. Therefore, a shift between a slow phasing-out of interest rebates and a review of the deferral rate on capital gains would be one of many possibilities. This is one of the issues that will definitely be addressed in the housing policy talks. In addition to this, a total of over 800 million will be spent on housing for the elderly in order to build housing that meets the needs of people. It is about people who have lived, worked and paid taxes in this country and who now feel that they would like to live in a different way in the future.
i-4826adaf846a1061-440	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is gratifying to hear this from the Minister. But there is a need for a wider range of living forms. Then we talk about adapted living arrangements for people with different needs for social community and security, i.e. shelters, senior housing, 55-plus or whatever it is called, as well as generation housing. It is a new concept that we in Gothenburg have a municipal housing company, Gårdstensbostäder, which works with. I don't know if the minister knows. I actually like that concept.
i-4826adaf846a1061-441	Madam President, I would like This is an example that I would like to take a closer look at, of course. We see how many different municipalities solve the challenge in different innovative ways. That is something we welcome. What has been missing in the previous year has been state support for the construction of smaller dwellings. That is why we have investment aid that will be exchanged during the term of office and that goes to small and climate-smart rentals with reasonable rents.
i-4826adaf846a1061-443	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Mikael Damberg a question of a more general nature. It should be a matter of course that everyone can participate in society. That is not the case today. For those with disabilities, the encounter with barriers that create foreclosures is too common an experience. One of the success factors for achieving a positive development in accessibility is clear leadership. The government's tools for authorities to demonstrate this leadership are the regulatory letters. For this year, in many of the regulatory letters, I lack clarity about accessibility, which the government spoke so well about in the 2014 Government Declaration. My question to the Government is what concrete measures the Government intends to initiate in order to put a better focus on the work on accessibility, first in the agencies' own activities and then in the respective areas of activity.
i-4826adaf846a1061-447	Madam President, I would like Here I will be honest and say that the design of the regulatory letters in other departments than my own for me feels like being in deep water. I dare not have detailed comments on this. How to design regulatory letters is an art in itself. There has been a discussion on this in the Government Office linked to the authorities. Sometimes there has been a willingness to press everything into the regulatory letters, which means that the authorities cannot carry out their tasks in a sufficiently free and creative way to get as much results as possible. I do not know whether that is behind a change in the form of regulatory letters in this area. I do not dare to comment on individual regulatory letters in the area of other departments.
i-4826adaf846a1061-449	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I fully understand this. But then perhaps the Government can take the question with it. A survey from the Swedish Agency for Participation 2015 reports that 22 per cent of the authorities have backed 1 or 2 points in terms of accessibility work. 37% stand still, and only nine of the 257 still meet the criteria. Then the question is whether the government or the government can raise this issue in order to put a better focus on this.
i-4826adaf846a1061-452	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the supplementary question, Bengt Eliasson! It's something easier for me to handle. This government puts a huge focus on creating a society that is for everyone. Accessibility issues are one of the important elements. There, the government has taken several initiatives, and we will continue to do so. I hope that we can do so in broad political agreement. This is about long-term leadership, so that all actors understand that we are building a society together. Then accessibility issues are also very important for the development of society.
i-4826adaf846a1061-454	Madam President, I would like It is hard to believe today, but the football season is actually approaching. It's something that we all find very fun, but at the same time we're a little worried. After all, we have several experiences of grandstand violence and fighting in connection with various sporting events. In 2014, the Alliance Government set up an investigation into a masking ban at sporting events. The aim was to prevent grandstand violence and to ensure that people do not mask themselves and commit criminal acts or make a mess of the matches. The investigator made his recommendation in December 2014, and the Minister for the Interior then said that he thought it was a very good proposal and promised that a law would enter into force on 1 January 2016. That's not what happened. I wonder what has happened, and when can any legislation in this regard come into place?
i-4826adaf846a1061-457	Madam President, I would like The answer is that we continue to work on the proposal, and we will return to Parliament as soon as we have finished the matter.
i-4826adaf846a1061-458	Madam President, I would like It's very good that the government returns, but you wonder when. It's a concern when people mask themselves in the fights and commit crimes. We need to get this in place quite quickly. Is there anything else the government is doing to prevent violence in the coming season?
i-4826adaf846a1061-459	Madam President, I would like Much of the work on prevention is done by Minister of Sport Gabriel Wikström. Then, of course, we have an ongoing dialogue with sport and with the police, which includes dealing with these situations. I am as concerned as many others that this will take off again. It has been quiet for a while, but there is a great risk that it will take off again. However, on the concrete issue of the ban on masking, we return to Parliament.
i-4826adaf846a1061-462	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Johansson. It touches on an issue that was raised here a little earlier, namely the issue of unfair competition and illegal transport. With the contacts I have with Swedish hauliers, with representatives of the haulage industry and with representatives of Transport, I would say that this issue is probably the most important issue for Swedish haulage industry right now. It is clear, then, that it is gratifying that one of the first proposals we discussed in this House during the current term of office was on this issue. It was about cabotage and penalties. Now the Government announced in a previous response – and we have seen it before – that there are several measures under way. My question is: what is the target for this work? How does the government envisage the functioning of a healthy transport sector?
i-4826adaf846a1061-465	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. This is a very clear example of why it is worth defending the Swedish model. The Swedish model allows people to work in Sweden and receive a salary that can be lived on and that it is decent conditions and a safe and safe working environment. There is also access to high-quality welfare services. When it looks in an industry as it currently does in the haulage industry and unfortunately also in some other industries where lawlessness has been allowed to spread over a long number of years, the consequences are also seen. It is almost a slave contract, and it is people who are actually suffering tremendously. The objective is that the haulage industry should be characterised by healthy conditions of competition. We welcome mobility within the EU, but it must be done on equal terms and not at the cost of deteriorating working conditions and the environment in this industry. There's the target.
i-4826adaf846a1061-468	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It could then be a supplementary question. What we're talking about now is illegal activity-- you're breaking the rules that exist. Unfortunately, however, legal cabotage is also a problem in our market, because the regulatory framework is being extended and the regulatory framework is being used in a way that was not really intended. The Government itself deals with salaries and conditions that are regulated by collective agreements. It looks different in the rest of Europe. How is work done towards the EU?
i-4826adaf846a1061-471	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. In the contacts I have had in the work of the Council of Ministers but also in direct contacts with the Commission and in some bilateral meetings, this is the issue on which we have the most focus. It is also very gratifying that the Commission is now talking in a completely different way than before about fair conditions, even if it does not put it that way. It is a matter of good conditions of competition. It also highlights workers' rights and not just the free movement of capital as an important issue for the EU. We are also working, for example, on the EU road package as an important part of it.
i-4826adaf846a1061-473	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister of Housing - pass on! It applies to the black trade, serious criminality and usury in so-called brokering of rental housing. The ultimate sign that we have a non-functioning housing market is when there is trade alongside, where the most vulnerable get caught. Those who do not know their rights are exploited by criminals. Obviously, there are flats that are empty and that can be used as merchandise by rogue people – black brokers. I'm sure the Kaplan Government agrees with me that we need to build more homes. However, my question is this: how does he think that a reformed leasing arrangement could contribute to mobility that would prevent the illegal market for rental housing?
i-4826adaf846a1061-476	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Johansson, for raising a very urgent question! This is a major problem. I would first like to state that this is in no way legal. I recommend that anyone who has come into contact with the black market in housing contracts should contact the law enforcement authorities. This is a problem that is based, among other things, on the fact that we have too few homes on the market. It also shows the desperation of those seeking housing. Therefore, the government has invested a great deal in working on the regulatory simplifications that the old government started but also in ensuring that it is built more overall. We have also set up an investigation to strengthen tenants' position in, for example, second-hand rental. I think it is important that this issue be thoroughly examined. This should be ensured by one of your colleagues here in Parliament, Agneta Börjesson, going through it thoroughly.
i-4826adaf846a1061-479	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although it was not an answer to the question I asked! But I'll try again. On the other side of the matter we have expansive companies that no longer want to establish themselves and hire people because the housing shortage means that those people cannot move to where the jobs are. Earlier in the replies we have heard about subsidies. I ask the question again, but from a different perspective. How could a reformed and more free renting system contribute to the construction of more rentals where they are sought and the disappearance of the black trade?
i-4826adaf846a1061-482	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Johansson, for the question, even if it is like Jeopardy! - The answers! You're giving an answer to a question that hasn't been asked. Basically, it is an entrance that the Center Party has. It's well known. I imagine that you will take it into the housing policy talks, and there, of course, we will have it in one of the scales when it comes to making it faster, easier and cheaper to get more housing.
i-4826adaf846a1061-483	Madam President, I would like Due to the refugee crisis, Skåne municipalities have received far more unaccompanied young people and children than they have agreed. The Scanian municipalities now have claims on the Migration Agency of approximately SEK 1 billion. It's money nobody knows when they'll get. My simple and concrete question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson is: When will the Scanian municipalities get their money?
i-4826adaf846a1061-485	Madam President, I would like The simple answer is: as soon as possible. We have also commissioned the Migration Agency to review the compensation systems. What we are talking about now is recovery for money that the municipalities are out with. It is not reasonable, I think, for the local government sector to act as a bank for the state, as is the case at this stage. This system arose once when we had a much smaller reception. Clearly, then, the problems are not as great as they are, and they are not such large amounts of money. But when we have such a large reception, there will be large amounts of money. As soon as possible, the money will be paid out – that's obvious. It also has, as I said, a mission to review how this will work in the future. It is a point on one of the lists that Swedish Municipalities and County Councils have submitted to the government. This has to be resolved. In fact, I met with the leadership of SKL the other day to discuss, among other things, those issues. Then it is not only the Scanian municipalities that lie out with money – although it is a concern for both of us. There are more municipalities in the whole country that do.
i-4826adaf846a1061-489	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. It sounds good that it should happen as soon as possible. But I wish the Minister for Migration would be able to take even more into account the concerns of the Skåne municipalities and the other municipalities. $1 billion is a lot of money. It risks other activities. I would therefore like to repeat my question. Could the Minister not point to a date that the municipalities can aim for when they are waiting for the refund?
i-4826adaf846a1061-490	Madam President, I would like Of course, I could do that, but then I would be dealing with ministerial rule. I am sure that someone in this House would immediately file a KU report against me. So I cannot do this. In fact, it is the authority that is dealing with this issue. I have to respect that. Skånska municipalities and other municipalities in the country are out with a lot of money. Among other things, the government entered the municipal sector last year with almost SEK 10 billion in order to facilitate the situation of municipalities and to be able to cope with this situation.
i-4826adaf846a1061-493	Madam President, I would like Swedish tourism is doing well. Not least in sports holidays in Åre, where I live. When I left the village yesterday, the sun was shining. The snow was sparkling white. And skiing was absolutely amazing. The tourism industry employs people from Abisko to Österlen. If you look at figures from the Swedish Agency for Growth, you can see that VAT on foreign visitors' consumption in Sweden in 2014 amounted to SEK 12.4 billion. This is an increase of almost 126 per cent since 2000. There are conditions to build Sweden stronger as a tourist country. It is therefore important to work politically to create these conditions.
i-4826adaf846a1061-498	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Sätherberg for the question. When you see the pictures from Åre with the sun and snow you get very eager to get there. I therefore understand that so many tourists actually come to Sweden and experience the amazing things we have to offer. It is actually nice to see statistics on the development of the tourism industry right now. It's really going incredibly well. It goes much better than in Europe as a whole. Sweden also gets more hotel nights among foreign tourists who create many driving forces in our economy, both in the restaurant industry and in the hotel industry and also in the other tourism industry. What we have done is a targeted investment of SEK 110 million more to Visit Sweden to increase the marketing of Sweden. We're starting to notice that now. For example, we have focused on the Chinese market, and that is the market that is actually growing fastest now. There has been an increase of almost 30 percent in the last year of Chinese tourists coming to Sweden.
i-4826adaf846a1061-501	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. I am very pleased that the tourism industry is an important component of the government's export strategy. We see that the biggest relative growth comes from new markets such as China and India, and we know that increased travel is linked to this. Can the Minister for Economic Affairs say anything more about how the tourism industry is part of the government's export strategy and what is being done?
i-4826adaf846a1061-504	Madam President, I would like Yes, I can do that. In fact, we have deliberately chosen to bring the tourism industry into the export strategy. I don't think people usually think that the tourism industry is an export industry. But it affects our economy in the same way as exports, and it lifts the Swedish economy very well today. In addition to these marketing efforts, we work with direct lines to get more tourists to come here. But we also work purposefully to adapt and highlight more destinations in Sweden, so that they are destination mature to receive tourists in a good way. We are happy to continue to work with this, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg.
i-4826adaf846a1061-506	It's past 3:00. The new regime allows us to give all Members who have signed up to the debate the opportunity to ask questions. Further speakers are given a speech each in order for everyone to have time to ask their questions.
i-4826adaf846a1061-508	Madam President, I would like I'm going to ask Minister of Housing Mehmet Kaplan a question. Almost a year ago, the Parliament issued an announcement to the government saying that the guidelines for traffic noise at facades would be raised, in order to enable more housing and construction at public transport stops and more, which is crucial given the acute housing situation that Sweden is in today. The Minister for Housing has also received rather harsh criticism from his own government for his inaction and his absence from the housing policy debate. On this basis, I would like to ask a question. When does the Minister of Housing intend to follow Parliament's decision on noise? It is time for the Minister of Housing to put the shovel in the ground and stop driving his head in the sand when it comes to the housing challenge for Sweden.
i-4826adaf846a1061-511	Madam President, I would like It was fun, Mats Green. On 17 December 2015, the Government commissioned Boverket to monitor and describe the effects of the regulation on traffic noise in residential buildings. It is a regulation that my government decided on last year. It is a noise regulation that has received positive feedback from the industry, which thinks that it can now actually build even smaller apartments in noisy areas where in the past one could only build larger apartments, with Moderate policies. It was the Moderates who were in government during the last term of office, and it was the Moderates who did nothing about this noise situation. Therefore, the first thing we did was to receive referrals from many different expert authorities and put this regulation in place.
i-4826adaf846a1061-514	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Morgan Johansson. Threats and hate on the Internet have grown recently, especially on social media. These threats and hatreds also tend to sometimes target the weakest groups in our society, which may be very vulnerable in different positions. In Germany, the government has agreed with Facebook, Twitter and Google that posts containing threats or hatred should be deleted within 24 hours to prevent social media from becoming a haven for hate and threats and for the extreme right online. Facebook is now hiring so-called task forces to deal with this problem. German legislation shall be the basis for what is to be deleted.
i-4826adaf846a1061-518	Madam President, I would like This is a top priority for the government, that is to try to clean up all this hatred and misery that is on the Internet. It can happen to any of us, but women are particularly vulnerable to it. I am also following the discussions in Germany closely. But some time ago I received an investigation into how to improve the fight against this kind of threat and hatred in Sweden. The investigator was Gudrun Antemar. We prepare her proposals further and are prepared to go to Parliament as soon as possible. Hopefully we will be able to do so this year. One of the proposals is that the so-called BBS Act should be amended to include illegal threats and violations of privacy. This means that you will be forced to remove this type of post.
i-4826adaf846a1061-522	Madam President, I would like I am well aware that the Government is not responsible for the police. Today, however, many citizens are concerned that the police are not enough to carry out their duties. Well, I'm not talking about a lot of crime. A little over a year ago, this House decided to send a mission to the government to introduce a separate crime scrub in respect of burglary in housing.
i-4826adaf846a1061-524	Madam President, I would like As Krister Hammarbergh said at the outset, I am not responsible for the police, but it is the Minister for the Interior who does. It is therefore also his task to account for the initiatives he has taken in connection with this announcement. I therefore call on Krister Hammarbergh to take the opportunity to repeat the issue when Anders Ygeman is in the Chamber.
i-4826adaf846a1061-526	Madam President, I would like The acute flow of refugees to Sweden also creates housing problems. The Boverket has signalled that the government must proceed and in a legally certain way allow temporary exemptions from parts of the Planning and Construction Act. Minister Mehmet Kaplan has announced that certain exceptions may be made, that adaptations should be made to technical characteristics requirements for temporary accommodation and that there is also reason to proceed with the simplification work. There are many people in Sweden waiting for a home. Many of them are young people. They need their first place to live. I would like to put the following question to the Minister: are the Minister and the Government ready to make permanent exceptions in detailed plans, rules and building standards for youth housing in the same way as for asylum homes? If he's not, what's stopping him? Reality calls.
i-4826adaf846a1061-530	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very important question in this context, Mr Rothenberg. First of all, we need to make one thing clear. The question arises, when the Moderates, after the Moderate, stand in the speaker's seat and speak hotly for changes in the rules, why during the eight years they sat in the government did not do much in terms of the rule-simplification work, except on the margin. Those were low-hanging fruits. In many cases we thought it was good, and in some other cases it was bad. However, we have the rules we have today. With existing rules, if we take similar municipalities in the Stockholm area as an example, Sundbyberg municipality builds four times as much per capita as Danderyd – with the same regulations, the same detailed planning requirements and the same monopoly on plans. That is something that must also make Mr Rothenberg think and ask himself: perhaps that is not where the problem lies?
i-4826adaf846a1061-534	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Economic Affairs regarding the threats to the Swedish model and the wage-deductive demands the bourgeois parties have now begun to pursue. We Social Democrats often make workplace visits, especially in our constituencies. We from Skaraborg visited Pani Mekaniska in the countryside outside Lidköping on Monday. It is a committed, knowledgeable small business that makes large metal processes. He was angry at the fact that large companies exploit small companies as banks by not paying for jobs done, and at the attacks on the Swedish model. He did not want to see the state cut wages for new arrivals under any conditions, for he was concerned about the concern it would bring in terms of competition between workers in the workplace when starting a low-wage spiral.
i-4826adaf846a1061-537	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. I meet a lot of entrepreneurs, not least in the export sector in Sweden. They testify unanimously that they think the Swedish labour market model is very good. They have responsible parties on the other side of the table. These are tough negotiations before the treaty movement, but when you have taken each other in hand you know what applies. Compare it with the situation we have in Europe! There are wild strikes and executives carrying a small bag at the office, because they do not know how to deal with the situation if they are forced to make cuts. The Swedish model is very strong from a competition perspective. But it's not just about competition issues, it's also about how we stick together a society. I think that the parties that are now pushing us to lower wages in Sweden should also consider the question of whether it is possible to live on wages in Sweden in the future if wages are to be reduced. My concern is that, in the past, it was young people, that it is now immigrants and that next time it is some other group. I think that Sweden should safeguard its salary model, namely the Swedish model. We will develop the Swedish model, not phase it out.
i-4826adaf846a1061-540	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by taking this opportunity to congratulate the royal family and Sweden on Victoria's birth with Prince Oscar, Duke of Skåne. My question goes to the Reichstag and Minister of Posts Mehmet Kaplan. It is true that in the age of digitalisation, we are now investing considerable resources in expanding the fibre network in rural areas, in particular, to ensure that we have good broadband throughout the country. How does Minister Mehmet Kaplan view this in relation to the community mission Postnord has, especially with regard to services such as country mail carrier services? Is it the case that we will see a reduction in the service of country mail carrier services, in exchange for the new investment in broadband in rural areas?
i-ABXEamySJLVu4qUXb8SH6i	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Erik Ottoson! The postal market is a changing market, and the government sees a need to ensure that postal legislation is appropriate in the digitized age Erik Ottoson so well describes. Digitalisation of society means changing communication patterns, and the postal market has been characterised by continuously decreasing letter volumes throughout the 21st century – both in Sweden and in the rest of the world. At the same time, various forms of electronic communications and parcel delivery have increased, but this does not weigh up the second part. The government's idea of postal services is that it should meet the needs of all households and businesses as much as possible, and I think we share that idea in this House. Although various forms of electronic communication have changed the consumption of information, it is of course important that we have a well-functioning postal market throughout the country, including country mail carriers.
i-4826adaf846a1061-545	Madam President, I would like Child abuse is a very big problem, but we also have a large number of dark people. Too few cases are being reported, and even fewer are being prosecuted. Even fewer cases lead to convictions. A major problem is that the victims are often ashamed and afraid to tell. It may also be that the victim is dependent on the perpetrator. One good thing that has been done is to ensure that the limitation period for abuse starts to run only at the age of 18, but the question is whether this is enough. This can range from 5 years to 15 years, when it comes to the serious crimes, and many times it is only 20 or 30 years later that the victim can cope or dare to tell. My questions are: What should we do about the problems? How are we gonna get more people to tell us? Could a complete abolition of the limitation period for child abuse be an idea?
i-4826adaf846a1061-548	Madam President, I would like Just as Hillevi Larsson describes, one of the measures has previously been to ensure that the limitation period starts to run from the age of 18. It relieves part of the problem, but maybe not all of it. We are now looking at the possibility of seeing for a limited part of the crimes involving gross abuse of children whether anything can be done regarding the limitation period. We are not in the process yet, but it is absolutely an issue we are working on.
i-4826adaf846a1061-550	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Mehmet Kaplan. Sweden is a country that has been at the forefront of developments in IT, and this also applies to broadband expansion in rural areas. It is something that has benefited us as a country and has led to the development of various activities. Broadband expansion was also a priority area during the time of the alliance government. Now many report that broadband roll-out in rural areas has stopped and that it is not even obvious that telephone and internet connections are working.
i-4826adaf846a1061-553	Madam President, I would like So in just under a year and a half we have managed to stop all broadband and telecommunications throughout the country, obviously. It's very fast work. The truth is that this is linked to what was handed over from the old government to the new government, namely broadband support in the rural development programme which was not quite as well negotiated as we had reason to believe. This allowed us to send down officials who worked frantically to get a support that can now be used to expand broadband across the country. This is support of 3.25 billion, which is twice as much as in the previous programming period. I think we should all be happy about that. We have also appointed broadband coordinators to coordinate the work of expanding. In addition, there is a bill that will make it cheaper and faster to expand by digging fiber. The appropriateness of politicians' statements on ongoing police investigations
i-4826adaf846a1061-557	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Attorney General. A fundamental feature of the rule of law is that there is a clear distinction between political power on the one hand and law enforcement on the other. Perhaps the most obvious expression of this is that the rule of law has independent courts. Recently, there has been a debate in society about whether it is appropriate for government ministers to comment on an ongoing police investigation and publicly express views on who is guilty of having committed a certain crime or perceptions of how evidence in the form of, for example, witness data should be appropriately valued. It has also been discussed whether it is appropriate for a government minister to comment on whether or not a person who has been acquitted by a court is guilty of a crime. I wonder whether the Minister of Justice would like to give his view on the relationship between the judiciary and political power and whether it is appropriate for a minister to comment on ongoing police investigations.
i-4826adaf846a1061-561	Madam President, I would like No, of course, it is not appropriate to go in and, for example, speculate on the issue of guilt or witness evaluation. Then, as a minister, you can reason, starting from various crimes that have been committed, on what to do from a crime and what to do for any political effort to ensure that it is not repeated in the future, but that is a little bit different. But to go in and try to influence or speculate on ongoing legal proceedings I advise against. It is not appropriate to do as a politician. This applies not only to ministers, but also to Members of this House.
i-4826adaf846a1061-563	That concludes Question Time for the week. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members.
i-4826adaf846a1061-565	Madam President, I would like We have debated and discussed unaccompanied minors here today. The number of municipalities and district councils that lex Sarah reported to themselves because they were unable to comply with applicable laws and regulations was in January 66. Some social services have not been able to ensure that the accommodation they place children in is good, that they are suitable. Madam President, I would like I have previously debated child marriage with the Government. This week I was told about a 16 - year - old girl. She's married to a man who's just over 30 years old. She's five months pregnant. In the room she lives with the man, who is a maximum of 15 square meters, also lives a younger and an older brother to whom the husband is acting guardian. The girl refuses to eat. She won't leave her room except in an emergency. She's not going anywhere unless she has company. She's feeling very bad. The environment is obviously inappropriate. The question is how this can happen at all. How can you place a 16-year-old in a facility with adults in the same room as a 30-year-old man? Nevertheless, the situation must be seen as untenable. The Minister has overall responsibility for the legislation and regulations governing social services in this respect. Should not a 16-year-old who comes to Sweden with what is said to be her twice as old husband be seen and treated as unaccompanied and not be placed in a dwelling, a camp, with adults?
i-4826adaf846a1061-570	Madam President, I would like It is of course the case, without commenting on the individual case, that Swedish law should apply in Sweden and that children's rights should apply to all children. It's important to me and to the government, even in this case. That is why I am very committed to the issue of girls' rights and child marriage. With regard to the legislation on child marriage, which is relatively new, both I and the Minister of Justice have previously said that we need to follow it up to see what might need to be done further. But we already have strong legislation on child marriage in Sweden. Without commenting on the case mentioned here, it is important that it applies and that children are treated as children.
i-4826adaf846a1061-572	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think I understand what the Government thinks, that it is simply inappropriate, of course. But the question is whether the tools really exist for municipalities to deal with the situation. You can see it's a problem, but you don't know what to do. Concern has been reported, yet it is not seen that there are tools to change the situation. The question is how many other children come to Sweden with someone who is considered to be their husband who is placed with this, especially in a refugee home. I would have been able to understand if there had been a similar discussion if they had been placed in their own apartment somewhere – there have also been problems – but not in an adult refugee camp. The discussion here has often been that we have to ensure that adults are not in accommodation for children, but it is at least as bad if children are placed together with adults. We Liberals proposed that the Migration Board and the Social Services should be able to carry out more thorough checks on homes where unaccompanied minors are placed, but this also applies to the centres. We also suggested that they learn more about their rights. Here it seems undeniably a rather large deficiency if girls who come to Sweden have no idea what their rights are when they are under 18 years old. We also proposed an accident commission. When I hear about the 16-year-old girl, it's hard to see that it's not necessary. I would like to hear what the Government is saying about that now.
i-4826adaf846a1061-577	Madam President, I would like What was discussed here earlier is simply the conditions for social services to carry out the task of caring for unaccompanied refugee children and other children. I presented a series of measures that the government has taken to strengthen social services with support in terms of regulatory changes but also resources. It is important that social services can investigate every child who comes to their attention in different ways. Therefore, these measures are relevant in order to strengthen the investigative capacity of the social services. Every child has the right to his or her own investigation. The County Administrative Board of Östergötland has produced several reports, and one of those who came recently is particularly concerned with this. The report points to the need for education on issues relating to both different forms of oppression, which especially girls and women live under, and also to child marriage. I think there is a lot to keep on training, and we are also working on that. As I said, we want to review the legislation on child marriage and how it has worked and possibly has not worked. The Ombudsman for Children recently introduced his new website Koll på soc, as it is called. The Ombudsman for Children and also the Social Services should enable children to search for information about their rights and be able to get in touch with, for example, social services when they need it. We have also set up a support phone at the National Board of Health and Welfare that municipalities should be able to call, and child marriage is a common issue that municipalities have. We continue to follow this issue closely, because it is a matter that we share.
i-4826adaf846a1061-584	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for participating in this incredibly important debate in this House today in the run-up to the decisions we are about to take! I feel that the Government has a very great personal commitment to these issues, and I think that is important when we have a situation that makes very many of our operations extremely hard strained. I am pleased that the government has taken many different measures. It's not something I deny or question. On the other hand, we Christian Democrats have seen that even more is needed and of an acute nature. The government showed last autumn that it was prepared to go very far and deviate from the principles of preparation and other things and adopt strong measures when it came to reducing the number of people who come here. The Government expressed in the debate the need for social recovery. I am thinking above all of the refugees who are the reason why our social systems are under strain. These are people who cannot recover, who have no breathing space, who are fleeing for their lives. So far there have been 135 711 people crossing the Mediterranean to Europe. That is the latest figure from the UNHCR. 36% of them are children. How quickly can we expect the measures that the members of the government's party in committee have said that they expect the government to come back with? They provide examples that this could be done by means of additional directives or by calling on the special investigator to come up with new proposals. It's been months. We see that this is an emergency and I therefore ask about the timetable.
i-4826adaf846a1061-592	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Emma Henriksson and the Social Committee for a good dialogue on these important issues. It is true that I personally, and the government, have a great deal of commitment to this. You can't have anything else when it comes to extradited children who have no one else to turn to. However, it is important that the social care system works for all children who need it. We're not going to choose. Emma Henriksson asks about future reception systems, which we also discussed earlier. I am no stranger to looking at a system of reception that is different from today's system, because we see great shortcomings and great strain. We will come back to this, and I would like to do so soon. In this debate, which has been good, I have almost been accused of doing too much. It was referred to nine pages of the report with measures that we have taken. We have done this because we have always seen needs. Although we have done a lot to help in the emergency situation, my idea is that everything we do will be useful in the long term too. We had a very strained situation when the government took office. You say we've been waiting for months, Emma Henriksson, but your particular party had responsibility in the government for social services for eight years. You left behind a social service with great needs, which is well covered. That is why we need to work urgently here and now to help the people, the children in this case, but also to see measures that we are now taking as investments in the future.
i-4826adaf846a1061-598	Madam President, I would like It was eight years in a government that did a lot in this particular area. With the so-called V care investigation, we dared to lift the lid and look at what actually happened in our history, what we did and what we failed to do. Then it became clear that better conditions and tools were needed for social services. We needed better control of how the care of children who need community care should be arranged. We fully agree that there is still a great need for social services in general. But now we have an emergency situation. In some cases, children have been placed without knowing what their needs are. You haven't met the baby, and you don't know what place the baby comes to. In some cases municipalities have invested in places that are not even a dwelling, i.e. someone has just made it up to call it an accommodation. These are the worst cases, but the fact that they even occur is extremely serious. Our proposals do not focus on all municipalities. But today we have municipalities that say that they cannot do this. It's not about money, it's about the municipality not being able to recruit staff. Could we take a responsibility at national level to make it easier for them? It is not a question of fundamentally changing the system, because some parts do not need to be fundamentally changed. It is about being able to help those who are currently in too difficult a situation. I have a question about support housing, too. The municipalities are concerned that assisted housing is not part of the agreement they have with the Finnish Immigration Service. It is reported that the government has decided that this should be the case. Why?
i-4826adaf846a1061-602	Madam President, I would like During the eight years that Emma Henriksson refers to, there were several regulatory changes that were good, as I also said in my speech. New rules were introduced for complaints of concern, follow-up on the placement of children and so on. However, they were not accompanied by the necessary resources. There was and is no shortage of socionomists. Many train as a social worker, but they opt out of this part of the labour market. Even then, they did. It's nothing new, and you knew it. Now we have this situation, and then we have to do things in the short and long term. That's what we're working on. There should be no need for a new neglect investigation. We're not supposed to be neglecting, we're supposed to take care of these kids in a good way. It is not just about money, but to some extent it is about money. It is a women-dominated sector in the labour market where conditions have not been great and where you do not seek or stay. If you can create peace of mind and another way to organise your work so that you have the opportunity to spend more than the average 15 minutes a day on average for your children, I think it will be a more attractive workplace. That is why it is a matter of resources, among other things. In the case of assisted housing, I will closely monitor the use of this form of housing. It is important for all children to have accommodation that suits them. Almost all referrals have made the analysis that this form of housing is needed. Other rules mentioned by Emma Henriksson are also included in the package that we are reviewing. This is supposed to work as well as possible. The new regulations are being referred, and I am anxious that this form should be used as soon as possible.
i-4826adaf846a1061-609	Madam President, I would like The debate we have here today underlines the importance of order in welfare and the careful use of our common tax chandeliers. It is essential that there is good supervision, transparency and clear quality requirements. The Patient Safety Act places a responsibility for the safety work on the care providers. There are many factors that only health care providers can influence. However, even if health care is the key to ensuring safety in the healthcare environment, there is much to be done to optimise the success of care providers. Here, governments and authorities have important roles and a clear responsibility. It is therefore quite regrettable and worrying that the Government does not take the review and recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office more seriously. This is especially the case when the Swedish National Audit Office specifically points out that there are shortcomings in supervision in the area of patient safety. Almost one in ten patients in the health care system suffers from health injuries. This means suffering for the patient, but it also means a waste of tax crowns as health damage consumes a lot of resources. The total additional cost in the form of extra day care is estimated to be between SEK 6.9 billion and SEK 8.5 billion per year. In addition, there are other socio-economic costs, such as longer sick leave. Whatever the case, this is an unreasonable development, and we must take it seriously. Madam President, I would like There is innumerable evidence of patient safety challenges in healthcare. It is unequal in terms of gender, age, geography, and more. This is where the government closes its eyes. The waiting time for care is very different in our country. In January, 96% of patients in moderate-controlled Halland received treatment in specialised care within the 90 days of the guarantee, while only 61% of patients in Västernorrland received it. Healthcare should be provided as needed, with high quality and at the right time, regardless of where in the country you live. It is quality that should be promoted, and patient safety is an important part of this. The report on patient safety in Sweden 2015 presents patient safety developments during the period 2010–2014. It is believed that this is moving in the right direction, but that regional differences still exist. One example is healthcare-related infections, where there are huge differences. It is linked, for example, to poor cleaning, which is a medical risk and should be considered poor care. Hospital cleaning can be about life or death. Last autumn, Expressen ran a review of the deficiencies in hospital cleaning. There were also good and less good examples from our country. At that time, the responsible Minister, Gabriel Wikström, chose not to take any immediate concrete action in view of what had been discovered and the shortcomings that still exist. We in the Moderates take this very seriously and put forward strategic decisions on health care hygiene by tightening up the supervision and follow-up of the cleaning of care. We also want to see a general authorisation requirement and a patient safety law 2.0. When it comes to strengthening the supervision and follow-up of the cleaning of care, we see Moderates Inspection of Care and Care, Ivo, as the natural authority for this mission. As I said, we Moderates want to take advantage of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations by, among other things, strengthening the conditions for effective supervision and reviewing the possibilities to conduct in-depth investigations of fundamentally important healthcare events. In addition, we want to review patients' ability to make a permanent contact with healthcare through, for example, fixed medical contact or contact nurses. Madam President, I would like In healthcare and the course of care, it is important to focus on patients. It would be good to have sharper eHealth services so that all patients and also relatives can follow their healthcare course better than today. A new digital environment should be established that can change and facilitate healthcare. Of course, the focus is on meeting the patient. In conclusion, it was encouraging to read the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion that the previous Alliance Government's implementation of the Patient Safety Act provided a good basis for promoting a high level of patient safety, but this is only the beginning of the work. We need to further develop patient safety – a reinforced and extended patient safety category 2.0. With this, I would like to endorse our reservation 1.
i-4826adaf846a1061-623	Madam President, I would like Patient safety is the theme of today's debate. Patient safety means protecting patients from injury when they receive treatment. In Sweden, healthcare is safer than in most other countries, yet injuries are still a major problem in our country. This can be case damage, care-related infections or injuries caused by incorrect medicines. Regardless of what issues we discuss in the Committee on Social Affairs and which concern health care, all issues are somehow linked to promoting patient safety, because the patient perspective should always be placed at the centre of care. These may be questions of manning requirements or of national guidelines, issues that in some way relate to patient safety. We Swedish democrats believe that without a high level of patient safety we cannot talk about good care worthy of the name. It is primarily about patients being able to feel safe and secure in their care, but it is also about working with patient safety to prevent health-related injuries that both affect the individual hard and cause society unnecessary costs. The issue of patient safety should therefore always be a high priority for both the government and the parties in the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like We welcome the Swedish National Audit Office's report on patient safety, in which they have examined whether the state has provided healthcare providers with sufficient conditions to promote a high level of patient safety. What is serious in the report is that the Swedish National Audit Office points out that the county councils today are not able to fully meet the objectives and requirements of the Patient Safety Act, especially when it comes to the ability to work preventively. Nor does the Swedish National Audit believe that the state authorities have managed to live up to the ambitions of the law and that the government has not managed the authorities sufficiently. We therefore believe that the government should take the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office more seriously than it does. For this reason, we have reserved ourselves and supported some of the motions put forward in the Moderate consequential motion. Madam President, I would like Today's health care is increasingly faced with difficult priorities as the situation in healthcare is increasingly strained. Queues are increasing, surgery is cancelled and hospitals are full of patients for whom care places are usually lacking. We also have resistant bacteria and previously eradicated diseases that are coming back, such as TB. Against this background, patient safety should rather be a higher priority on the government's agenda. Therefore, we believe that the Government should satisfy the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendation to steer and follow up the authorities' work to support the care providers. It is also important for the government to ensure that the right conditions are in place for effective and active supervision and monitoring of, among other things, patient safety in healthcare. We also believe that there is a need for a national strategy to increase patient safety. This is the only way we can lay the foundations for good patient safety and quality of care wherever you live in the country. Then we do not think that it is enough to do as the government does in the letter, namely to state and point out that the ultimate responsibility for providing good care to the population lies with the carers. They make it sound a bit like the carers alone would have the ultimate responsibility for the patient. Of course, they have a responsibility, but the ultimate responsibility lies with the government, which is to ensure that carers have the right tools to get patient-safe care. Patient safety is perhaps more important than ever before, given the current state of health care with the strained organisation and severe savings requirements of many county councils, while healthcare needs are increasing rather than decreasing across the country as a result of rapid population growth. We believe that the government should take its responsibility and do more. A care injury that could have been avoided is a care injury too much. I'm in favour of our reservation, reservation 2.
i-4826adaf846a1061-636	Madam President, I would like This report is about patient safety and a report from the Swedish National Audit Office. I would like to start by saying that the Christian Democrats are behind the report from the committee. At the same time, there are still challenges in this area that we shall in no way ignore. If ten years ago in Sweden you talked about how many people died or suffered a serious injury every year because of avoidable mistakes in the care, it was easy to not really get taken seriously. That in our country there were thousands of people who actually died every year because of mistakes that could have been avoided, many did not want to or could not take in. During our years in the government, we focused on patient safety work. We also began to investigate in this area: What happened? What's actually happening? For statistics! Count and see! Be careful! It's embarrassing, because it turns the light on what doesn't work. But it is also important if you are to make it work. That is why we were very keen to get the patient safety law that was introduced on 1 January 2011. Important for patient safety work was also the Patient Act, which was introduced on 1 January 2015, and it will also be. But this also applies to the E-Health Agency. As previous debaters have mentioned, e‐health can be an important factor in tackling avoidable health injuries. Care injuries should be avoided, regardless of whether the cause is systemic failure or whether they are due to mistakes by individual employees in the care. We're just people, and sometimes people do wrong. Then we need to have support and help through the systems so that we can be helped to avoid making those mistakes. It is about using the technology, the IT infrastructure, so that the staff can use their time for the right things, not double documenting and doing other things unnecessarily, and getting support in finding the risks that sometimes have disastrous consequences. During the last parliamentary term, we had a performance-based system that invested 2.5 billion directly in patient safety work. It was important that it was adapted to performance, i.e. that it should pay off doing the right things. Although there are several of us who support the report on which we are now going to decide, there are certain things in the way the current government acts that make me worried and concerned. This is not least about the issue of medicines. For some bets we get warnings. As far as free medicines for children are concerned, I understand the ambition and desire that no one should have to turn the money around in order to afford medicine to their children. But when it comes to how it has been designed, how to invest, the profession says that there is a risk that the use of antibiotics will increase and that it will lead to increased health risks and increased health damage.
i-4826adaf846a1061-643	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, a large number of healthcare interventions are carried out daily of both an acute and planned nature. We have a good system at large, with staff with high skills doing their work in an excellent way. We are all keen to have a high level of patient safety in our operations. Weaknesses cause damage to the care that causes great suffering to the individual and high costs to society. In the letter that we are examining, the government has responded to the recommendations made by the Swedish National Audit Office and explained the tasks that have been given to the respective authority. Madam President, I would like I think I will give the summary of the government's response, because the members of the committee are well acquainted with the report. But I can assure you that the government takes the report very seriously. An important issue raised by the Swedish National Audit Office, which I would like to mention, is the question of how the law can be applied to the patient's involvement. I am convinced that we must find new ways forward. The final report Ask the patient – New perspectives on complaints and supervision are currently in the process of being consulted until 15 April. I'm sure we'll have reason to come back to that. Another issue worth raising is the question of where patient safety arises. My conviction is that all healthcare professionals strive to work in their daily work in such a way that the highest possible quality and safety for the patient is achieved. What they need are prerequisites in their everyday lives to do the best possible work based on their role. It's about what we've heard our prime minister talk about under the heading. Let the pros be professionals. Another important initiative taken by the government in this context is, in my view, the work presented by Ardalan Shekarabi, which is called the government's reform of illiterate government. It is about improving employees' conditions, for example by reducing administration and giving them greater professional room for manoeuvre. You simply need more time for your core business. We need to analyse and understand how employees' skills and experience are better taken into account, what requirements it places on leadership and how managers can develop competence in the operations. The Government has stated in the budget bill that professional ethics and close to operational knowledge and experience should be more indicative than today. Detail management needs to be reduced in favour of more strategic governance characterised by trust and trust. It is something that I am convinced many of the health workers have longed for. We should create systems to allow them to do so and not systems that prevent or make it more difficult for employees. However, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-4826adaf846a1061-652	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office pointed out shortcomings in supervision in the area of patient safety. It is therefore incomprehensible why the Social Democrats and the government do not see this, but sit back. Among other things, you announce to reduce resources to Ivo, the Inspection for Health and Care. On the contrary, more resources are needed. You are welcome to get in touch with the Moderates' proposals; we provide more resources, SEK 50 million per year from 2017. My first question to Kristina Nilsson is: Is it reasonable to announce reductions on Ivo? Patient safety also lays the foundation for quality of care. The Alliance introduced the Patient Safety Act, which has improved patient safety, but this is only a start. I mentioned in my main speech that there have been reports of shortcomings in health care in the area of cleaning. There's work to be done here. The responsible minister, Gabriel Wikström, leaned back and did not come up with any immediate measures to overcome this, but we can still see that it is happening. There are differences around the country, and there is more to do. We can't have dirt in health care. This must not be met as a patient. My second question is: why do you not want stricter supervision and follow-up of the cleaning of care when we look at it?
i-4826adaf846a1061-655	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with Ivo. I am also a member of the Ivos Transparency Council, so I follow the work of the Authority in this way. I feel confident that the government is carefully following Ivos work. Statskontoret is also monitoring developments, and measures have been taken to improve the efficiency of administration and supervision. I know that the agency is working on developing methods for the return of knowledge to health care providers. It is also working on the basis that supervision should be based on risk and materiality. I think these are important points. Ivos's funding, as it was during your time in the government, is what we have taken after. We listened to the Minister's reply in the previous debate. The Government intends to come back to this. I guess I don't have much more to say on the issue of funding today. When it comes to Jenny Petersson's question about cleaning, I think like this: It is not supervision that leads to cleaning. I believe that the staff of a hospital are very well aware of what needs to be done. You have the skills. They're trained in hygiene. Why it does not work in all parts, I think, is more about not having enough time at your disposal. There is simply a need for more hands in healthcare. Then I think the staff will solve a lot of this on their own.
i-4826adaf846a1061-658	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Social Democrats believe that Ivos supervision is sufficient. There is a dividing line between the Moderates and the Social Democrats. We believe that more needs to be done, and that is why we are giving more money to the Inspection for Health and Care, which is given an extended mandate to strengthen supervision. Weaknesses in the cleaning of health care and care services can, in the worst case, be associated with life risk. This seems to be taken very lightly by the government and the Social Democrats. It is regrettable that this is the case. But I'm going to move on, because I wonder what you want. We Moderates have taken a stand. We want to tighten up the supervision and follow-up of the cleaning of care. We do not think it is enough. We have developed a national strategy for increased patient safety in healthcare. We want to establish a new digital environment. We want to focus more on the patient and improve the information so that you can follow your course of care in a completely different way. We have made several different proposals. Kristina Nilsson pointed out that the Complaint investigation had submitted its final report Ask the patient – New perspectives on complaints and supervision, which are being consulted. But what do the Social Democrats want to do while waiting for the referee? You must want something in this area.
i-4826adaf846a1061-662	Mr President, I would like to We want a lot. I guess that's what I was trying to describe in my main speech, which was somewhat forced, which I have to apologize for. It is quite simply the case that we differ a great deal between our parties in terms of human views. I am absolutely convinced that the competent staff we have in healthcare are capable of maintaining a high level of patient safety and good care hygiene. As has been said, it is more about that they need conditions in their everyday lives to do as good a job as possible based on their role and competence. I think that is extremely important. You Moderates have allocated SEK 400 million less for the development of social work in your 2016 budget – in view of the previous debate. You have proposed 79 million less for Social Affairs. You have proposed 2.1 billion less for health care and public health. You have proposed SEK 280 million less for psychiatry. I do not think it is the best idea to make these major cuts to core business and to the staff and competent staff in the care and then put a little bit on a supervisory authority. My view is that safety and quality arise where the staff are well and able to do their job and not because of the threat of some kind of supervision.
i-4826adaf846a1061-664	Mr President, I would like to Now we didn't have time for the vote, so I might be able to say a few more words. The committee believes that patient safety is an important area of health care. Lack of patient safety causes health damage that causes suffering to the individual and entails high costs to society. The committee shares the government's assessment of the Swedish National Audit Office's observations and recommendations. Like the government, the committee believes that there is a need to develop state support in the area of patient safety. It is therefore positive that the Government has, among other things, commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop a comprehensive support for healthcare in this area. The committee also notes that the Complaints Investigation has recently submitted its final report with proposals on how to improve the effectiveness of the handling of complaints in the health sector and, among other things, contribute to increased patient safety. The committee also notes that the government is currently reviewing the design of future work in the field of e-Health. In view of this, I request that the reservations be rejected and that the letter be added to the file. In addition, I would briefly like to add something about the fact that the Green Party has long run and is still working for a special centre of expertise for patient safety research. We will continue to work on behalf of the Green Party to get to some form of research centre on patient safety issues where it is the main task. We share the Swedish National Audit Office's analysis that the shortcomings found lie in the fact that it is difficult to keep a constant learning process in an operation that has great demands to function continuously to a large extent repetitively and efficiently. Responsibility development and learning development are two requirements that are very difficult to reconcile in practical activities because the regulatory framework for responsibility is not so easy to adapt to the changes in activities that the learning process constantly causes. Both patients, healthcare providers and the state through, for example, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare have huge interests in how patient safety issues develop and are valued. That is precisely why an independent partner for knowledge development has a very important function. I therefore hope that an independent and independent centre for patient safety research can be part of the outcome of the review the government in the letter talks about doing in terms of the modalities for the development of future patient safety work. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to add that the problems surrounding the increasing risk of more antibiotic-resistant bacteria spreading make it increasingly difficult to maintain a high level of patient safety in healthcare. Sweden is very far ahead with the work to minimize risks, but it also requires increased global responsibility and commitment. I know that our Minister for Health is deeply involved in this issue and that initiatives are being taken, for example, at UN level to tighten up the recommendations for antibiotic use, if you are going to be a little funny. Sweden is very active in the work. But I think it is important that we in this House, regardless of which party we all belong, try to give the support we can in different ways to that work.
i-4826adaf846a1061-675	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office plays an important audit role in the state administration. It examines various activities. The case we are discussing here today is the important area in which the state is working to provide healthcare providers – to a large extent county councils and regions – with support in such an important area of patient safety. Of course, the Swedish National Audit Office usually finds things that are more or less serious and can be done better and different, so also in these matters. Governments, regardless of party color, tend to admit and take on part but also defend themselves with the fact that other things still work satisfactorily and are on the right path. This is also the case in these matters. The issue of patient safety is, of course, absolutely fundamental in a good healthcare system. There are many points to make. I can agree with what Emma Henriksson has highlighted. It is not certain that free medicines and antibiotics are always well correlated with the highest level of patient safety. It is good that the government highlights the important role of the Inspection for Health and Social Care, Ivos, in supervision in these areas. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's support to carers is also important. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends that the National Board of Health and Welfare be given responsibility for long-term national governance and coordination of patient safety work. In its letter, the Government explains how it works with this and acknowledges that there is a need to streamline and develop state support for healthcare in the area of patient safety. Of course, supervision to ensure that patient safety is high is very important. That responsibility rests with the state. But basic is also, as the government states, that the care providers plan, lead and control the operations so that the requirement for good care under the Health Care Act is maintained. That is where the direct daily responsibility lies. Given this, the responsibility ultimately rests heavily on the government and parliament. It is therefore a good thing that the state, as the National Audit Office defines the state, is being audited. With this in mind, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the Social Affairs Committee's SoU9 report.
i-4826adaf846a1061-681	Mr President, I would like to Patient safety is a management issue. It is also a question of resources and a question of health and safety at work. SKL's report Patient safety pays off – costs of injuries and injuries in inpatient care in 2013 show that injuries are linked to just under one and a half million extra days of care that cost a lot. It is an additional cost of almost 11 1⁄2 billion annually. We could use that money a little more efficiently, couldn't we? The measurements also show that 10 to 15 percent of patients in health care are affected by some form of injury. The most common type of injury in the SKL journal review study was healthcare-related infections. It is the most expensive care injury group, and the cost represents 40% of the total cost of care injuries. That says a lot. A topic that recurs in the case of health injuries is cleaning in our hospitals and that the very lack of cleaning causes damage. Often, the cheapest cleaning model is used to win in various procurements. It rarely gets cheaper, and the quality is not what it should be. Instead, it's supposed to be professional gangs cleaning up hospitals. It's not cleaning at your house, it's cleaning at a hospital. Cleaning is therefore something you cheat with a little here and there. The multi-resistant bacteria are madly happy in this. If you look around the country you will necessarily end up in Stockholm when it comes to dirty hospitals. For example, in the Stockholm County Council of Alliance, a cleaning company at Södersjukhuset has reduced cleaning materials but made a profit of 85 million. In Alliansens Stockholm County we can find both dirty hospitals and a bad economy. I just want to say it. The state has been loaded quite a lot. Nevertheless, it is the carers who have a fairly large responsibility regardless of whether we have authorities to look at it. Patient safety requires a working environment that is functional. It is a working environment where stress is minimized and continuity is the rule. That is not the case today in health care. There is a need to develop state support in the area of patient safety. We've seen that. It is therefore a good thing that the government has, among other things, given the National Board of Health and Welfare a mission that concerns a comprehensive support for health care. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the state has given healthcare providers sufficient conditions to promote a high level of patient safety. The starting point for the review has been that, despite a number of interventions, problems remain in the area of patient safety. Funds are needed in various areas. It is ultimately about an investment in welfare. It's a bet that wasn't exactly striking on the right side. The Swedish National Audit Office also considers that the Patient Safety Act is a very good basis for promoting a high level of patient safety. It is also pointed out that the county councils today are not able to do all they should. They are unable to work with learning and prevention. It is about structure, but of course also about resources. In the budget Left has been involved and negotiated for 2016, there are investments of for example 1 billion in 2016 and since 500 million in the coming years. This is also a prerequisite – we are investing in health damage and for a more reasonable health care. The damage to property is linked to the rest of the structure. A never-ending stream of savings programmes and cuts has for years forced health workers to stress more and more. It has also undermined trust among us who are patients and users. Now we need to reverse the trend. There must be an end to cuts, sales and an auditor-controlled care where the patient is seen as any good. We must improve quality, improve working conditions and strengthen trust. In order for each person to get the help he needs when he or she meets the care, he or she needs enough staff to do what he or she does best. That's how we can reduce the damage to the care. This also requires permanent state aid. The left has been clear about this: More money for welfare in the long term! Otherwise, I would like to reject all the motions and support the committee's proposals in the report.
i-4826adaf846a1061-693	Mr President, I would like to The Patient Safety Act was created to improve early detection of patient injuries, identify the causes behind them, and then learn from the event and prevent new events from occurring. It takes time for such legislation to sit down. Ivo was given a responsibility to exercise supervision with other authorities. The MPA, for example, also has such a responsibility. Ivo then came to get many individual cases, and so it has taken up a lot of time from Ivo. It's a good thing we got the Complaints investigation. Many of the complaints should be dealt with locally and without the delays that will occur when they enter centrally. Much is now being done to strengthen the legislation. The National Board of Health and Welfare is responsible for coordinating the pace of the authorities responsible in this area. What I want to highlight here is the responsibility of county councils, municipalities and professions in patient safety work. Then they must also be given the opportunity to do so. I and we in the Liberals believe that time must be set aside for what I would call self-examination. You have to have time in the staff groups to sit down regularly and review what you have done well and what you have done badly during the past week or so. This shall be a regular part of the work. I believe that we will then find a lot that can be corrected at a much earlier stage. It should be possible for patients and caretakers to have an insight and participation in the work. Not least, it is important that those who have suffered a patient injury follow the local investigation: Why did it go wrong? How can we prevent? What are your views on the matter? I believe that the number of complaints to Ivo will also be reduced if you, as a victim or caretaker, are allowed to be involved in preventing others from getting into trouble. I would also like to highlight another issue, namely the field of medicines. Since 2012, we have had legislation based on an EU directive that says that damage caused by incorrect and inappropriate drug treatment should be reported to the Medical Products Agency. This is an important source of information if properly managed. Therefore, it is so important in this development work that the Medical Products Agency, and not only Ivo, is made clear when it comes to preventing the damage that occurs. It is estimated that 30 000 hospitalisations are due to drug complications, half of which could be prevented. In doing so, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal in the report and thank you for the floor.
i-PJic7fyZSgRXRFw7kMzNWk	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 2. When the so-called FRA law was adopted in 2008, it was during a lively public debate. The debate was based on the fact that many did not seem to trust our own Swedish authorities – this despite the fact that the law regulated that the FRA was not allowed to analyse Swedish conditions. The FRA shall only capture and analyse signals related to foreign conditions. But it is not only Sweden that seeks and captures signals. Other countries also listen to cables and the air, and that should of course worry us more. Several countries are investing tremendously in signal reconnaissance and decryption. The NSA's computers in the United States will generate as much power as five nuclear power plants can produce. Any threats and harmful intrusions into Swedish systems are the responsibility of other states or hackers. It is my conviction that the Armed Forces Radio Institute is doing its job according to the agreed instructions. They're our first line of defense out there in the intelligence world. Just as we are proud of our soldiers, sailors and officers, who stand well in any comparison, there is reason also to be proud of the staff in the defence support resources. Swedish signal reconnaissance has a fine history. During World War II, mathematics professor Arne Beurling broke the German crypto. This enabled the Swedish government and the Armed Forces to read the German message traffic in plain text. As you can see, we Swedish democrats are in favour of signal reconnaissance because we believe that it is happening for the sake of everyone's safety. At the same time, we take privacy issues very seriously. It is good that we regulate signal intelligence with laws rather than letting the activity as such be completely secret. It is also good that the FRA must apply for permission from the Defence Intelligence Court when they are looking. Furthermore, it is good that Siun, the State's inspection for the defence intelligence activities, controls the reconnaissance. The Board that governs Siun should be represented by all political parties represented in the Riksdag. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and that is what our reservation 2 is about. Signal reconnaissance is technology, and in many parts advanced and secret technology. But one thing is known: It takes a lot of computing power. SD therefore invests SEK 100 million more per year than the government at FRA to enable them to build up more computing power. Unfortunately, the cyber war continues despite the fact that there is peace in the physical world. Swedish authorities and Swedish companies are attacked every week by foreign interests stealing data. Passive cyber-defence means protecting your own systems from attacks and thefts. Active cyber-defence means disarming the systems, mostly overseas, that attack ours. One problem with active cyber defence is that the attackers often use innocent hijacked computers for their attacks. As it is now, all Swedish authorities have their own data consultants, and they place their servers where it is cheapest, even abroad. We want to reclaim the Civil Defence Board and within this organisation have a department that develops standard platforms for effective passive IT defence that are given Swedish authorities to provide. Law should regulate that Swedish authorities must have their servers in Sweden. We then want to set up an investigation into sending up micro-satellites in order to build a completely secure Swedish government network. The network should be considered military, and in that case the procurement of satellites and other hardware should be carried out in accordance with the Defence Procurement Directive. With the help of Article 346, we can then direct orders to Swedish companies. Sweden has special expertise in the production of micro-satellites, and it is of strategic importance. This completely secure network of authorities can also be in the form of Nordic cooperation.
i-4826adaf846a1061-713	Mr President, I would like to You can ask Siun to find out if someone, as it is called, improper collection or related processing of your messages has taken place. I thought I'd have to try it. In mid-December, therefore, I ascribed to Mr Siun to ask about this. On 21 December, I received confirmation that my request had been received. A month later, I was told that no such improper pick-up had taken place. Although I am surprised that it takes a month or so to answer such a simple question, I can at least conclude that there has been no improper collection. If a proper pick-up has taken place, the message I received will not tell. Well, the Left Party's claims remain firm, despite this essentially positive test. We believe that a recast of the FRA law is needed. The current FRA Act has given FRA access to a very large part of the network traffic in Sweden. In the past, exceptions were granted only for military threats, and the FRA was able to intercept only signals passing through the air. In the opinion of the Left Party, these changes marked clear steps towards a surveillance society. The principle must be that there should be no mass listening without a concrete suspicion of crime. Therefore, the FRA law should be demolished and revised. In addition to this, we believe that a parliamentary inquiry should be set up to review the FRA's cooperation with the NSA and all other relevant parts of the NSA's surveillance activities. We also believe that any cooperation between the FRA and the NSA should be frozen during this time. The background to this requirement is as follows: In 2013, several cases of mass scanning carried out by the US intelligence services were revealed. In many countries, extensive reviews have been launched on the involvement of their respective countries and intelligence agencies in NSA surveillance activities. Millions of people, international organisations and even Heads of State or Government had their phones and electronic means of communication bugged by the NSA. With the support of a large number of secret documents leaked by the whistleblower and former NSA employee Edward Snowden, SVT's mission review revealed that Swedish FRA had also been involved and helpful in parts of NSA's surveillance activities. For example, the mission review revealed that the management of the FRA visited the NSA in April 2013. According to the secret documents, it appears that the NSA and the FRA have prepared a joint action in the NSA-initiated Winterlight program that enables hacking of other people's computers. According to these documents, the FRA should also have become part of the NSA surveillance system, called XKeyscore, which enables millions of people to collect data on email, social media, search history, etc. The Snowden documents also show that the NSA sees the FRA as a strategic ally, in particular with regard to information gathering from Internet cables in the Baltic Sea, for example from Russia. When the digging British journalist Duncan Campbell testified about the NSA scandal in the European Parliament in September 2013, he pointed out Sweden and the FRA as the main partner, alongside the United States and the United Kingdom, in the NSA's global surveillance activities. In many countries, extensive reviews have been launched on the involvement of their respective countries and intelligence agencies. But in Sweden it has been very quiet. This letter, of course, does not concern the extensive surveillance scandals and the alleged role of the FRA in the whole. Of course, the FRA did not want to comment on its role in revealing these scandals either. In the light of the terrorist attack in Paris, we all know that it launched proposals that risk further adversely affecting personal integrity. The police will have the opportunity to plant Trojans on the computers of suspected criminals and terrorists. Such an extension, with the potential for purpose-spreading, increases the need for a further analysis of the FRA's cooperation with the NSA. Therefore, I think it is high time to get to the bottom of Sweden's role in this monitoring and interception activity. There is, in itself, perhaps an excessive distrust of the FRA. I saw this summer a T-shirt with the clever text: FRA, an authority that really listens to you. On the other hand, it can give you a bit of a chill if you consider what it really means. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 3.
i-4826adaf846a1061-728	Mr President, I would like to Then we will be here again this year to discuss the review of privacy protection when signaling in defence intelligence activities. I would like to begin by saying that intelligence is of considerable importance for national security. It is about understanding the outside world, seeing what happens, preparing for the events that occur, perhaps preventing things from happening in the country and facilitating the situations in which crises – perhaps wars or other crises – arise. I also think it is important that we have international cooperation in this area and that we engage in dialogue with allies and other friends, as it were, in the world. Basically, of course, it is a question of safeguarding democracy and civil rights. That's what's at the bottom of it. We had an intense debate a few years ago on these issues and on personal integrity. I think it is quite good that this discussion has sobered up a bit recently. Of course, it is also important to stress that things must not go wrong. Sometimes errors occur in this area. Of course, personal integrity is important, and this must not be abused. As a state, it is of course important to deal with this wisely. I think that the legislation and form we are working on works well with the existing defence intelligence court and with the inspection of defence intelligence that is responsible for examining it. It may be worth pointing out in such a debate that no remark has been made in 2014 against the work that has been done. I would also like to express myself as follows: intelligence is central to our ability to defend Sweden. The Director-General of the Defence Radio Institution stated when the annual report came that he saw areas that were important. It was to be able to map military activity in the immediate area, the terrorist threat and the cyber threat. Then, of course, came the follow-up question that this costs money and that this needs to be financed. I think it is important, then, to state clearly that the government is investing a great deal in this area. The defence decision adopted by this House early this summer means that the appropriations for intelligence activities are increasing. There are motions in this area, and the government has already taken care of this. It clearly states that intelligence activities are of significant importance and will also be handled in the future Defence Committee. It is good that the government is forward-looking and deals with these issues. With those words – I will no longer do the debate, Mr President – I support the committee's proposal.
i-4826adaf846a1061-739	Mr President, I would like to I've told you before, without a stakeout, no idea. This sentence may seem to be worn out, but it is an important and crucial task that the personnel of our intelligence services, including the Defence Radio Institute, are doing. It is important not only for the national security of our citizens within our borders but also for those beyond our borders who work for various reasons in international operations, in rescue operations or in companies and embassies. It is an absolute national necessity that Sweden has its own intelligence service. It should really be obvious to everyone. Basically, it is about our own freedom and security and our independence. It is only our own information that we can rely on 100%, and in the situation we have today with an increasingly deteriorating security situation both in our vicinity and in the world around us, this is more important than ever. When you hear reports from Mali, Syria and other trouble spots around the world, you can get the impression that we live relatively protected in this part of the world. This is not the case – there is a constant war, albeit quiet. It is both a cyber war and an cyber war, and in our society where we are so dependent on ones and zeros, I would say that we are more vulnerable than ever. This intelligence work is therefore absolutely crucial for us to be able to make important and necessary decisions with our authorities, with our government, at the Ministry of Defence and the like. Mr President, I would like to What, then, is intelligence? Yes, it is both the collection of various data from open and secret sources and the analysis work thereof. It also involves cooperation with friendly nations, and it should of course be done in a proper and regulated way. However, we should bear in mind that this is not a charity. It is an exchange of information, and to be able to exchange information you have to have something to trade with. Let me go back to 2007/ 2008 and the debate on the implementation of the Signals Paging Act. We were faced with a reality of a technology shift in intelligence retrieval. The previous possibility for the Defence Radio Institution to obtain intelligence from what was all in the ether was not regulated, but not for nothing I must stress that there was no High Chapar ral in the form of reconnaissance of everything and everyone. Even then, before the creation of the Privacy Council, there was internal control. Every beating that was made could be traced and traced to internal employees, and they had very good control of the internal work of the Defence Radio Institute. However, as the technology shift meant that more and more of the information was transferred, the Swedish Defence Radio Agency lost the ability to conduct relevant intelligence retrieval and analyse the information. The need to keep a close eye on the subject was quite clear, and it was the Defence Radio Institution itself that turned to the then Social Democratic Government and asked for a regulatory framework – precisely for reasons of integrity. I think this is important to emphasise in the debate. The Alliance government inherited this issue at the turn of the government in 2006, and the discussion that then took place was a sad story. It came to be about anything but the defence radio institution's own activities and what it may and may not do, namely that the Defence Radio institution only engages in intelligence retrieval and such things beyond our borders. It was confused with both Säpo's activities and all sorts of strange facts that didn't belong in the context. This did not happen in a signal-scanning team, Mr President. It has been valid since then and has resulted, among other things, in the reason why we are standing here today, namely the government's annual report on the functioning of the entire rigged system of privacy protection. This letter is very thin, Mr President, and there is a reason for it. It turns out that all the braces and life belts we have rigged in the system of privacy protection actually work – and work very well. They work without comment. It is therefore a little interesting to hear repeated arguments from the Left Party, and earlier also from the Green Party, to tear up the law. It is really unfamiliar on what grounds, and in my opinion the most serious thing is that we do so without making any alternatives – at this time when we need a system that really works more than ever, as it has proved to be. In fact, I think it is quite serious and that it breathes a little bit of suspicion against all the tools that exist. Both Siun and the Swedish Data Protection Authority and many others are involved in this. I have a strong question about continuing to persevere in this. The Green Party has, thank God, sobered up, but the Left Party still claims this without having any alternatives—for what would that mean? Mr President, I would like to The annual report of the FRA, which all of us in the Defence Committee have on our table, has presented how we view the threat picture and the work carried out by the Defence Radio Institute in 2015. Director General Dag Hartelius has also spoken in an article on DN Debate, where he says: We are not enough. Despite the contributions made and the efforts made, we are not enough. This applies not only to terrorist and military threats, but also to the growing cyber threats, which are going further and further down our social hierarchy. It is not only against the activities of our industry, our defence forces or the like, but it is looking all the way down to our most sensitive social functions – the citizens themselves. I am talking about municipalities and county councils as the absolutely weakest link in the whole chain. We really need to take this seriously. Mr President, I would like to In the letter there are a number of motions. I would like to place some emphasis on the committee motion by the Moderates which highlights, among other things, the need for better coordination between the various intelligence organisations. They are both civilian, military and police. This has been well taken care of by the committee by raising the need for coordination between these intelligence organisations in a request from the Moderates, among others, for a renewed defence committee, which they have also supported. There is already cooperation between these activities today, but it needs to be further streamlined. I stand by the fact that I find it rather remarkable and incomprehensible that the Left wants to tear up the signal reconnaissance law in favour of something that is completely unclear, when it is actually into the exact details that the FRA is applying for authorisation today. Even the smallest fibre is given, even in terms of destruction and time for the actual collection. Mr President, I would like to We all went through a blog storm. I passed it through with my former colleagues at the Defence Radio Institute and may be one of those in this House who actually knows what it is all about after a long career in the Agency. I have to say that I think we have landed very well. It is a good balance between the actual collection of intelligence and the management of privacy. It shows, if nothing else, that letter, which also approves the work in its entirety. Mr President, I call for the motion for a decision to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-4826adaf846a1061-755	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure Siun is doing the best they can, but somewhere they feel a little bit like accountants in large companies. When have they ever exposed the great scandals that others have revealed? I could list a whole lot of things here. It's very difficult to make surveillance work. There are strong indications that the cooperation with the NSA I don't think even Annicka Engblom defends everything the NSA has done– was really the Wild West or possibly the High Chaparral. Speaking of High Chaparral: Given Snowden's position within the NSA, I wonder what this could be called other than a stable tip straight from the horse's own mouth. Why does Sweden and, as I understand it, Annicka Engblom not want to investigate these links with the serious accusations that are at the bottom and that must be said to be quite well founded? There should be a parliamentary inquiry to look into this. That's my question to you.
i-4826adaf846a1061-759	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson highlights this with the NSA. Instead of saying something about another country's signal reconnaissance organization, I can say that I am very proud of our own. I am proud that the law has been implemented in the way it has and that it works. It shows, if nothing else, the report that comes from the government annually. It has become increasingly thin and shows that there are no remarks. It might also be needed in the United States. Following the revelations of Snowden, that debate has also begun in the United States. On the other hand, I would like to abstain from speaking on the subject of Snowden in this debate. I'm sure we have a little bit of a difference of opinion about that. But not for nothing, it is good that the debate has started in the United States. It should not have escaped Stig Henriksson that the international collaborations conducted by the agency FRA are also subject to reporting obligations to the government, to Siun and to the Ministry of Defence. As a result, they are covered by the existing regulatory arrangements. I would like to put a counter-question to Stig Henriksson: What evidence does the Left Party think it has that these organisations, the associations, are not doing its job properly, and with what does the Left Party intend to replace the signal reconnaissance teams and in what parts?
i-4826adaf846a1061-763	Mr President, I would like to To say exactly how to formulate a new law, I will not try to get involved. Of course, we are formally legislators, but I think that requires serious investigation. Mrs Engblom mentioned in her speech that we must only look beyond our borders. Yes, but with the technology shift that you've been into, that boundary is becoming increasingly irrelevant. I found out somewhere that the Parliament's e-mail server for a couple of years was located in London. This shows a little bit of the problem in this context. As far as reporting obligations are concerned, the revelations that came through Snowden, which no Siun was able to find, should be thoroughly investigated, because it would be extremely serious if what is said to be true. So far, no one has been able to deny it in a credible way, so I still find it strange that we do not want to get to the bottom of it. Therefore, I think it is Annicka Engblom who owes the answer to the question: Why not? Then you can consider whether it is a good or bad sign that Siun's reports are getting thinner over the years.
i-4826adaf846a1061-767	Mr President, I would like to From my own experience, I can vouch for the functioning and functioning of the blockages between our various authorities in the field of internal and external affairs. The undersigned has worked both for Säpo and for FRA. There are firewalls when you hand over a case from one to the other. The limit for the transition of a foreign phenomenon to a domestic phenomenon is clear. It is in no way blurred or similar. I do not know how to further answer the question of international cooperation, so I will have to repeat what I said earlier, that is to say that they are subject to reporting obligations. There has been no reason to make any comment on our international cooperation. It is an ongoing process. Should something arise, we have a rigged system to look at this. The left still owes the answer to the question of what it intends to replace a possible signal reconnaissance team with and in what respects it does not work. I still see Stig Henriksson as a balanced and wise man. In what respect does the Left think this should be replaced, especially in these times? Finally, I would like to say that this is an irresponsible attitude.
i-4826adaf846a1061-771	Mr President, I would like to In a democratic rule of law, the proper functioning of privacy protection is important. In order for us to be able to have a signal search and monitoring, it is essential that there are legally secure processes and a popular confidence in the activities that are going on. Therefore, the defence intelligence activities are regulated by laws and regulations, including with a view to protecting individuals' personal integrity and legal certainty. In addition, there is the control authority, Siun, which is responsible for verifying that the defence intelligence authorities comply with the relevant regulations. In the control of the signal reconnaissance, the inspection shall pay particular attention to search concepts, destruction and reporting. Siun also has a mandate to suspend pick-up or order the destruction of the recording or record if it should be found that the collection has not been in accordance with the authorisation given by the Defence Intelligence Court. Mr President, I would like to We accept the government's letter, although we would have liked to see the annual report in future to be somewhat more detailed and detailed. In substance, it can also be added that the Swedish National Audit Office in its review of Siun and signal reconnaissance have had some questions regarding access to protocols and the performance of the same. There is still room for improvement here, and it is important that Siun has the best possible conditions to carry out its review. The Green Party would also like to see greater parliamentary transparency in the review carried out by Mr Siun. In this context, the Swedish Bar Association has also pointed out in a letter that there is still room to strengthen the independence of the Court of Justice as regards the appointment of its members and that it could appoint more privacy officers. This may be worth considering in the future. Against this background, it is to be welcomed that the Government's letter highlights the need for constructive dialogue between Siun and the relevant defence intelligence authorities on similar improvement measures. The Government is also open to in-depth follow-up of the consequences of the Signals Paging Act for personal privacy. In the letter, the Government also underlines the importance of strengthening efforts to safeguard legal certainty and personal integrity in signaling. The government also has this as its goal. I therefore accept the government's letter on the protection of privacy in the event of signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities and ask for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-4826adaf846a1061-779	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. This is an important debate on key areas of work to build security and also follow up on this work. In the latest issue of FOI's report Strategic outlook from November 2015, there is much to learn about the current situation. Among other things, it describes how the massive increase in wireless systems will increase vulnerability both to attacks with electromagnetic interference signals and to cyber attacks. The attacks can be made at a distance from wireless systems, and one conclusion is that important strategic choices must be made by both public authorities and business actors to address society's increased vulnerability and privacy issues for citizens. The development is progressing rapidly with further technological lift and higher ambition. There are forecasts showing that global data traffic in mobile systems will grow more than 200 times by 2020 and almost 20,000 times between 2010 and 2030. MSB's 2015 report on trends in information security highlights the growing security dimension of information security in recent years. The report mentions, among other things, that information operations combining internet-based propaganda with diplomacy, lies, media play and traditional military activities are very common in armed conflicts. Furthermore, cyber espionage and cyber sabotage have become part of the security policy toolbox in more and more countries. In addition, the Internet's increased opportunities for free and uncontrollable communication have led to counter-reactions in many states trying to isolate national networks from the global internet. The amount of electronic data is growing faster in modern society. This information explosion has put privacy on the agenda and led to discussions about who owns the right to data and how it can be used. Several parallel trends coexist. New digital arenas enable people to exchange information and expose abuses, but they also offer new opportunities for censorship and misinformation. It is clear that the use of information operations in conflicts is here to stay. We can read about several examples in the FOI report on Russia's annexation of Crimea. Information is spread for different purposes on social media and then picked up and used in traditional media. FOI notes that information operations complement traditional military activities and that they were an important factor in the Russian success of the Crimean operation. Modern wars take place both in the physical environment and in the information environment. The world's countries face common challenges such as cybercrime, cyber terrorism and cyberwars. Sweden's deteriorating security policy situation clearly demonstrates the need for a good ability to acquire, process, analyse and share defence intelligence services. The 2015 defence decision states that the impact operations against Sweden are ongoing. 中 Defence intelligence is crucial to the proper use and development of the combat forces and other capabilities. ..................................................... The relevant authorities and actors must be able to identify and respond to advocacy campaigns and neutralise propaganda campaigns, while respecting fundamental freedom of expression and pressure. A robust cyber defence capability must be able to protect socially important functions and systems that are vital to total defence against antagonistic cyber attacks. Sweden should be able to carry out active operations in the cyber environment. In the report we see that the Left Party wants to tear up and reform the FRA law. It raises some questions. In the past, more parties stood for the same view, but they now support the legislation. For the Center Party, it is important for society to be able to do two important things at the same time. We must act to combat this new type of attack, terror and warfare, but we must also ensure that in our eagerness to combat these groups and phenomena we do not restrict people's personal integrity and the right to privacy. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal.
i-4826adaf846a1061-798	Mr President, I would like to In December, an unexpected Christmas present came from Minister of Housing Mehmet Kaplan and the Government: a bill with the ambition to simplify the construction process. It was another investigation product of the Alliance government that had been spared from the government's processing cage. Unfortunately, however, as with the noise requirements, this too is an erosion of the bill compared to what could have been. The direction is right, but the creation of housing is missing. The Christian Democrats believe that politics has a very important role to play in the housing market. It's just a matter of finding the right role. A far-reaching interpretation of the precautionary principle has been given leeway in legislative work and in the application of legislation by authorities and local authorities. In various areas, the rule has been laid down. The proposals have been good, but the consequence has become increasingly complicated regulations and rising building costs. We can call it the tyranny of goodwill. With the bill A shorter chain of instances for detailed plans and district regulations, the county boards should be removed as an instance level for appeal of detailed plans. The reduced level of instance will hopefully help to shorten the time to start building projects. Appeals are an essential part of a legal society but must be proportionate to their extent. Sweden is a country in an ongoing housing crisis with a housing market that has long been in severe imbalance. The conditions for building a dwelling need to be improved. The long appeal proceedings are an extremely cost-driven process today, a process that both complicates construction and makes construction times unreasonably long. In some cases, it can take up to ten years from idea to the first spadet in Stockholm, and that is completely absurd. Previous investigation work has contained several parts that have now been abandoned. Some of these have been particularly highlighted and expressed in the accompanying motion presented jointly by the Alliance. The way forward is to improve the efficiency of the judicial system in the appeal of decisions under the Planning and Construction Act, while maintaining legal certainty, and to consider such things as reducing the number of bodies, limiting the body of property and introducing some form of administrative fee in appeal to a higher court. An urgent and effective measure to promote housing construction is to be able to limit the number of appeals made in a case. Today there is a tendency to repeat processes where the same person who loses a case raises the complaint in the next round. First the detailed plan is appealed, and then the appeal for building permits follows. Instead of the current trend of repeated stories to be examined several times, one should look again at the conditions for limiting the possibility to appeal building permits without any new circumstances having arisen in substance since the detailed plan was appealed. With an appeal fee, a restraining effect would also be given for reasonable proportions. International experience shows that this would significantly reduce the number of appeals and that construction benefits when appeals are made. Today, a party that appeals to any of the points in the construction process has no risk of incurring costs, regardless of whether the appeal was justified or not, and no matter how much damage it causes to the developer and society. There is nothing called societal benefit in Swedish legislation, as it does in several other countries. Among other things, I was in Italy last autumn. It is there that, although an appeal process is ongoing, it may continue to be built in the meantime if it is for reasons of public interest. It would be infrastructure, for example, and in some cases some construction projects could also be seen as such, depending on what is being built. Normally in a Swedish public court, an appeal is always accompanied by a risk of having to pay the costs of the other party's proceedings if the appeal does not lead to acquiescence. This cost liability does not apply to appeals against building permits. The investigation on which the proposal is based did not propose an appeal fee. On the other hand, the investigation, which has been in the process of being consulted, shows that the majority of referral bodies are in favour of this. The handling of appeals currently lacks a time limit. The lack of time limit for handling appeals makes it difficult for a developer to predict how long a process can take. A time limit should therefore be introduced for handling appeals, where a time limit should also be considered for appeal bodies if a case is not dealt with within a predetermined time limit. Similarly, one should look at a limitation of the subject-matter. Today, there is an unreasonable order in which, for example, a change of view is considered to be a basis for property ownership. Instead, the legal body should be limited to those directly concerned. A typical example of an oversized property owner's circle is the tours around Slussen in Stockholm. Sweden has an urgent need for housing. With today's conditions, we cannot meet the needs that exist. We can't afford thin propositions. The internal chain needs to be changed from scratch so that housing projects do not have to live as paper products for a decade before they are realized. The changes that we in the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Center are proposing today would make a big difference. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-4826adaf846a1061-814	Mr President, I would like to To shorten the time from idea to finished apartment is urgent and something the Alliance has been working on for several years. During the previous parliamentary term, we put forward over 100 proposals precisely to simplify and change the regulatory framework and speed up the process. It is said in the general debate that this is something on which we agree and that it is an issue on which the government is concerned. At the same time, I sometimes have doubts about the fact that the proposals are few and usually watered down once we get them. I find that unfortunate. Currently, urgent projects take somewhere between six and seven years on average. It took eight years ago. Perhaps some years have been shortened by the changes we have made. We need to continue working on this, because it is totally unreasonable. It boosts the process and shuts out new and small actors. We can't have that. Today, we are taking the decision to shorten the chain of bodies with regard to detailed plans and sectoral rules, that is to say, we are removing the county administrative board as an appeal body. We Moderates are entirely behind this, and I would like to pay tribute to the fact that at least this is coming. But we want to go further. We want the county administrative board to be removed at all when it comes to appeals. It's really for two reasons. One is saving time. We are sure that it will go much faster for decisions to gain legal force. The second is to streamline the County Administrative Board's mission. I have met with municipal politicians who think they have worked very hard with the county administrative board to produce good programs, and then there will be appeals. It becomes completely incomprehensible for municipalities that work things out together with the county administrative board when another department on the county administrative board appeals. I understand that. It is certainly not incomprehensible to municipal lawyers, because they know this, but for politicians it can be. This is unfortunate. I therefore believe that this part would be very important in order to streamline the County Administrative Board's mission. This is something that the government in a DN Debate article has said that it may be prepared to proceed with. I will listen with interest to the representatives of the government to hear what a possible timetable for this could be. They could even have approved the sentence. We also feel that we need to look at the subject matter. It has become unreasonable today through case law. We need to ensure that it is those closest to us who can appeal, not others. It cannot be that changing views from a distance is a reason for appeal, but it must be neighbours and very closely affected who have that right. It is very possible that the concept of property owner was not clear when we set up the new Planning and Construction Act, but now we have to take the step of clarifying the subject-owners' circle. In this context, it is important to look at the fact that detailed plans are often appealed when a project is planned and you are negative to it. We know that people sometimes appeal the building permits only to delay. There is already a limitation of this in the Planning and Construction Act, but it does not feel like it is used very often. It is rarely the case that the whole area of detailed planning is appealed. Often a detailed plan is larger, and so you take some and appeal building permits. We think that it really should be considered that those who have appealed against a detailed plan and have not been given the right should not be able to appeal against a building permit, unless other circumstances have arisen. I think that could be a reasonable aspect. In addition, we think it is urgent to look again at this with fees and appeals. It is, of course, a fee that you would get back if you got it right. We believe that such a fee would be suspended, and that is why this issue is urgent. Another proposal that we have is about deadlines. It is not so common for courts to have deadlines, but we do have them in certain contexts, for example in youth cases. We would like to have a serious look at the question of a deadline. We believe that it would put a little more pressure on the procedure and also make it clearer to those who build on how long you can calculate that it takes before you get a decision on a final decision. In these times, when we have an incredible need for more housing, it is extremely important to move forward with many of the proposals that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have previously opposed. A little has now been opened up, and I hope, as I said, that you will be able to present a clear timetable for when you feel ready to move forward on these issues. I can feel some doubt if there is a genuine will. But I thought I'd try to be positive, so I'll wait with excitement. Mr President, I would like to I support both of our reservations, but I only support reservation 1.
i-4826adaf846a1061-830	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, all of a sudden it's happening! At last – not a day too late – the government is putting forward proposals that simplify the Planning and Construction Act. These are sharp and concrete proposals, at least on paper, which can mean shorter planning processes and greater predictability for those who want, can and will build housing. But during the last term of office, the rousing tones of the red-greens were heard about all the investigations and missions – dutt, dutt. Friends! The result of this is still the only thing that comes to Parliament for a position, often too late and too little. This applies, for example, to a shorter chain of bodies for detailed and sectoral plans and regulations, and perhaps most of all to the noise regulation which, when it finally arrived, only marginally improved the possibilities of obtaining housing centrally next to traffic and activities that can make noise. Mr President, I would like to We note that regional planning reform is also delayed. The government wants to wait for the new regional classification which – if it does not fail completely, as it may – will not be implemented until 2023. With a clearer role for regions and counties in spatial planning, the requirements for municipalities to have housing plans are increasing, so that the development can be coordinated with infrastructure in labour market regions, small and large. All the parties that were part of the Housing Planning Committee were agreed, and Kaplan did not provide any opportunity to tell him how important he thought it was that it has now been worked together with housing policy. Now no such thing is heard, at least not about that proposal. Instead, it is invited to talk to the government. There is no harm in that, but much of what we are expected to talk about in those talks is something that would most certainly be received with open arms here in Parliament if it leads to increased housing construction, faster and more predictable planning processes, reduced demands for detailed plans, which Ewa Thalén Finné was concerned with, and increased self-determination for municipalities about the detailed plans and their assumptions and advance work. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government appointed and received the investigation that forms the basis for the decision we will take next week to abolish the County Administrative Board as an appeal body for detailed plans and instead transfer the cases to our five land and environmental courts. This concerns the adoption, amendment and repeal of municipal decisions. In our opinion, the government could have gone further and also moved the examination of building permits to a higher court. It is a step in the right direction when the County Administrative Board is given a more pure role in helping to develop a plan without being in conflict with laws and national interests and where different authorities are coordinated. Hopefully, municipalities are consulted in such a way that housing construction is not stopped. Now the County Administrative Board will no longer sit on two chairs and test the same plan that they have helped to develop during the consultation. On the other hand, the County Administrative Board – through the government parties with the support of the Left and the Swedish Democrats – will be able to continue to suspend the building permits granted as a result of the same plan. The report contains a reservation in which the Center Party, the Moderates, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats together want to see a transfer of building permits to the land and environmental courts. This is about 110 000 municipal decisions per year, but only 3 000 of the municipal decisions are appealed to the first instance, the County Administrative Board, so it is not an unreasonable task, because individual building permits are often considerably less complex than a detailed plan, which can cover hundreds of homes. It is estimated that 500 detailed plans in total will be appealed, and even today the Land and Environment Courts will be able to deal with half of them, after the County Administrative Board's decision has been appealed for the first time. It is a time gain to skip the county administrative board for detailed plans – we agree with that. But we would like to see building permits included on that trip. Is it something you encounter when you meet construction companies but also municipal politicians and officials it is a abandonment of the amount of appeals, the long delay it gives before you can put the spade in the ground and get the housing ready and the feeling that actors who are not involved appeal only to put a stop to a construction that you dislike and delay the implementation of a plan that provides housing. Sometimes they seem to want to wear out the applicant. Unless otherwise, they contribute to the fact that only the largest, most famous, durable and capital-strong construction companies are able to complete such a process. Small businesses prefer to abstain, thereby reducing competition and cost-effectiveness in the construction sector. Mr President, I would like to It is for this reason that we in the Center Party and the other alliance parties take the opportunity to reserve ourselves in favour of the government considering reducing the right to appeal against plans. It is a question of having to investigate what effect it would have on the desire to make a plea if it were to be dealt with with with some kind of fee. For the Center Party, which is a liberal party, the individual's right to oppose authorities is fundamental. It should not be reserved for the rich to say their opinion, but against this the ability of individuals to realize their own dreams of living should be weighed. The fee should not be high and may only apply to cases where the outcome is clear but where it is only a matter of delay. The same shall apply to appeals against building permits within a plan, unless new circumstances have arisen after the plan has become final. Finally, we can see that none of this might be necessary if the appeal process could be speeded up through more resources for the land and environment courts, a more sympathetic interpretation of the applicant and a precipice for long processing times. Today, we have a housing building that is far beyond what it has been in the past. This is not because of the current government, but because of the previous one, where the Center Party participated. The Red-Green Government's budget, with its investment aid and contribution to the municipalities to cope with their obvious task of planning to build, has been valid for only 65 days. There is also no ready-made regulatory framework for whom, how and for what to apply for these subsidies. So what is being accomplished now is not something you can beat your chest for. On the other hand, it is up to the evidence now! Do not hesitate to bring forward more regulatory simplifications and also take the opportunity to remove the regulations that hinder investment in rental rights! The challenge we have is huge. We in the Center Party want to take responsibility as long as it feels constructive and there is transparency in terms of seeing and solving the problems. We need to build twice as many homes in the next few years, because for decades there has been a regulatory constraint on construction companies. We need relief in beach protection and planning processes so that more can be activated and we get the construction started also outside the big cities. Mr President, I would like to A local housing policy starts with the fact that I am in favour of reservation 2 and otherwise I am in favour of the bill. But that will not be enough. In the very serious situation before us, people with an income from work, with waiting studies or needs arising as a result of changing family conditions, age or new arrivals cannot get access to housing that suits the needs. First of all, use the homes that already exist, both to speed up the construction!
i-4826adaf846a1061-851	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Liberals, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. For time winning, I do not propose any more. Now that the housing crisis has gone from being difficult to being super-acute, it is mainly the municipalities that have ended up in the bullet hole. A solution that is often proposed, especially from the left side, to boost construction is more government governance. For example, Minister of Housing Mehmet Kaplan has threatened with sanctions against those municipalities where the building act is too low. Overall, it gives the impression that it is the state that is pushing for housing construction here in Sweden, but in practice it is often the state that is the brake ball. Recently, the Stockholm County Administrative Board put an end to the plans for 800 central homes in Marievik. One of the County Administrative Board's objections was that the planned houses should be visible from the World Heritage Forest Cemetery, which is six kilometres away. Thus, in the midst of an acute housing crisis, the prospect of the dead is deemed to be more important than housing for living people. I can inform you that 350 000 young adults do not have their own home today. It is difficult to find a more illustrative example of why the state has to deal with all the difficult regulations that make people who need shelter always seem to be put in the last room. There are so many more examples in Stockholm alone with thousands of apartments that have not recently been built. I think it is paradoxical, because at the same time Stockholm Municipality is currently ordering in panic container housing for billions for refugees. This means that the County Administrative Board will put an end to real housing that needs to be built. They seem to think it's better for the refugees to live in containers. Temporary dwellings with temporary building permits are being built in the absence of other legislation. We in the Liberals have stated, among other things, that a humanitarian emergency in the PBL is needed in order for our refugees to actually have a roof over their heads. What is Mehmet Kaplan's answer to that? Nothing so far. What is the response of the Social Democrats to that? Nothing so far. You don't know what they think. The Social Democrats and the Green Party will have to put pressure on the municipalities to do their utmost to get the construction going. I think that is quite right. But the government must not forget to clean in front of its own door. The proposal that we are debating here today, that detailed plans and sectoral regulations should have a shorter chain of agencies by removing the county administrative board as an instance, is good but in practice means baby steps forward. This is far from enough given that we lack 700 000 homes in Sweden until 2025, that we have over 500 000 people in Stockholm's housing queue and that 250 of Sweden's 290 municipalities report housing shortages. It removes an instance of detailed plans and believes that it will be enough. We want to go further on behalf of the Liberals and the Alliance, and we want to remove the appeal chain for building permits and consider limiting the right to property rights, precisely because it is more important for people to have a roof over their heads than for everyone to have the right to appeal even when it is six kilometres away that it is to be built. We also want to see whether it is possible to investigate the pros and cons of introducing a sanction fee and whether it is possible to limit people's ability to appeal the same decision again on building permits after an appeal has already been made against the detailed plan. Many of these proposals are small, but overall they lead to, I think, more apartments faster. On the Liberal side, we believe that a humanitarian emergency is needed to cope with the refugee crisis that we are seeing in Sweden today. The Green Party does not say much, but at least this weekend they said that Sweden is capable of receiving 150 000 refugees this year. We received 160,000 refugees last year. So there are 310 000 people to Sweden during these two years.
i-4826adaf846a1061-863	A party that wants to take responsibility and believes in a generous refugee policy must have answers to these questions. I do not feel that the Green Party has any answer at all, but at least they say something. What the Social Democrats say and think on these issues is obscure. From the Liberals' point of view, we want to change housing policy in general. We want type-approved homes that are free to build throughout Sweden to obtain more and cheaper housing, such as Sabos's Kombohus. We want to investigate the competition and that the builders should have the right to develop their own detailed plans. We want the County Administrative Board to be forced to give planning decisions at an earlier stage so that you can't come at a much later stage and say: We think that Skogskyrkogården's view is more important than 800 homes in Marievik. We want fewer appeals, we want to soften the beach cover, we want owner apartments, we want to reduce the removal tax and we actually want to review the national interests, because it is not reasonable that half of Sweden should be unique. I don't think that's true. The question is really what the government parties want and intend to do. What has been presented here today is good, but that is far from enough. If you are serious about a generous refugee policy, you also have to deliver legislation so that you actually put a roof over these people's heads. Right now they put them in camping camps in Gothenburg, for example. Is that reasonable? Is that the start you're supposed to have in life? Do you succeed in your establishment if you live in a camping camp or a container? I don't think so. It is time for good legislation, and I expect the government to answer these questions and deliver legislation in parity with the needs that exist here in Sweden today with those who live here now and with those who come in the future.
i-4826adaf846a1061-867	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the civil committee's proposal to be approved in the CU16 report. The Government's proposal for a shorter chain of agencies for detailed and area plans is a good way to streamline the planning process while maintaining legal certainty. It will also clarify the role of county boards in the planning work of municipalities. I think we agree on it quite broadly in here. The fact that appeals are made directly to the Court of Justice and the Environment will at least initially increase the workload of the Court of Justice, I believe. The average number of cases appealed to the county administrative boards is 425 per year, and those subsequently appealed to the Land and Environment Court are on average 275 per year. This means that they get about 150 more cases per year to deal with. I think that's a good first step. The Moderates and the other bourgeois parties also propose that building permits and supervisory matters should go directly to that court, which on average would mean an increase of another 1,700 cases per year. Our assessment is that we should start by only allowing planning cases to go directly to the Land and Environment Court and evaluate the effects of that reform before we place another 1,700 building permits and supervision cases on the Court. Furthermore, the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties have also made proposals to limit the right to appeal against building permits and detailed planning decisions, introduce a fee for appeals against detailed plans, investigate the conditions for limiting appeals against building permits when no new circumstances have arisen since the detailed plan has been appealed and investigate the time limit for appeals. The PBL appeal investigation, set up by the Alliance Government, has looked at the proposals that the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties have now highlighted in their motion and made the assessment of not making any such proposals. The investigation concluded that the various proposals, without going into all the details, risk the legal certainty of the right of appeal and that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits of introducing a fee for appeals. There are several who say it should be a low fee. Then I ask myself: who is being prevented from making an appeal? Well, it's people with low incomes that you want to stop. Is it, then, low - income people who complain unwieldy? Surely none of us in this congregation will suffer such a fee if it is low, and so will others with higher income. Indeed, those who are affected are those who have low incomes and who today find it difficult to get the wages for the whole month. Furthermore, the Planning and Construction Act makes it clear that an issue already settled in the detailed plan, territorial rules and advance rulings cannot be re-examined. Investigating the issues again does not seem like the most successful path at the moment. We've investigated them. You pulled up a lot of investigations, and we got them on the table. Instead of investigating again, let us take a stand on them because you did not get the answer you wanted! If we get the same answer again, are we going to investigate a third time? The government has now begun talks with the opposition on the construction of the future. I think that's good. I've been talking about it since I entered the Riksdag a year and a half ago. I even received praise from Caroline Szyber in the last debate because I am right that it is a good thing that we are discussing and trying to put our ideological blindfolds a bit aside. But for eight years this never happened. Not an invitation came to the opposition to discuss the long-term conditions for construction. The possibility is that we talk to each other. I hope now that everyone involved, including us Social Democrats, dares to let go of the prestige and enter into the talks unconditionally, without already locked up positions. Announcements to the government during these talks risk locking up positions rather than creating the conditions for a fruitful conversation. Of course, the regulations can be simplified, but let us not have too high hopes that this in itself will lead to an increase in construction. Most things can be done quickly and smoothly even today, when the political will coincides with the will of pragmatic developers. Several municipalities have successfully engaged in construction together with the business community. Unfortunately, there are many opposing examples of municipalities that do not accept their responsibilities, but rather hold back in fear of growth and local opinion. Not infrequently they are right-wing municipalities. It is not acceptable that not all actors do what they can to solve our common problems. The municipalities must ensure that there is buildable land available and deliver plans within a reasonable time. That is my firm opinion. We must stop blaming the low level of housing construction on the Planning and Construction Act. It is time we highlighted the good examples of municipalities that manage to deliver efficiently, such as Örebro and Järfälla. As far as the City of Stockholm is concerned, I have been informed that construction has increased. B yggstarts increased sharply in 2015, as did the number of detailed plans developed. Today's PBL offers opportunities to succeed in this. However, in order for municipalities to deliver fast plans and building permits and get building started in real time, we need to have training in place quickly to deal with all bottlenecks, lack of experience and skills shortages. Planners, construction engineers, carpenters, mountain workers and crane drivers – all professions are equally important. All parties must be involved here: academia, universities of applied sciences, municipalities, private trainers, study associations and SFI providers. This also applies to the industries. Traineeships and apprenticeships must be a matter of course on every construction site. More resources must also be devoted to productivity development and R & D in the construction sector. With the volumes we now face, there are enormous opportunities for innovation and industrial development. We already have world-leading companies in all social construction sectors, lots of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and proud professional workers. In addition, we now have many people looking for work and a secure future in Sweden. I hope that the government's housing talks now have this as a starting point and that we can turn a situation of housing shortage and neglected infrastructure into not only building our own country, but also building our next major export industry: sustainable social construction.
i-4826adaf846a1061-883	Mr President, I would like to It was a bit of a pity that Leif Nysmed in his speech, rather than presenting a timetable and being in favour of the proposal to remove the County Administrative Board as an appeal authority also during demolition leave and building permits, gave the feeling that he thinks this is probably more problematic than good. I find that somewhat surprising, given that the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Housing have stated in an article that the role of the County Administrative Board in these parts should be removed. I would like to hear what the Social Democrats actually think. Do the Social Democrats in the Civil Committee and the Riksdag think anything other than what the Prime Minister thinks?
i-4826adaf846a1061-884	Mr President, I would like to Ewa Thalén Finné! What I did was problematize. I said that maybe we should look at what effect it will be if we start by bringing the planned cases directly to the land and environment courts and evaluating that reform before we add 1,700 cases to their table. That does not mean that I am saying that it is not possible to do so, but if we put 150 plus 1 700 – that is, almost 2 000 – cases directly on their table now, I think it can be quite extensive for them. I think we should step by step on this issue and look at the effects. There are some concerns about removing the county administrative board. The County Governor of Stockholm County, Chris Heister, who I think is moderate, is very critical of this proposal and has been out in the press criticizing that we should remove the county boards as the first instance of the detailed plans. There are some criticisms of this proposal, and I think we should listen to the criticism before we completely change it. But in the first step, I think this is good. I am not against evaluating it and looking at whether it is possible to take another step forward. Let's take one step at a time and evaluate!
i-4826adaf846a1061-886	Mr President, I would like to It seems to me that the government parties do not take the housing crisis seriously that I believe the issue deserves. It is extremely slow with all the simplification proposals it could put forward, and the proposals it makes are always minimalist. Problematizing can always be done. You can always see the obstacles instead of the opportunities. We're trying to see the possibilities. During the last parliamentary term, you yelled at us almost every time we had debates because we made so many changes. I hear such tendencies even now. Maybe we shouldn't do that much – now all regulations must be allowed to sit down, you say. I'm worried about that. We must continue to clean up the regulations. It goes without saying that the Planning and Construction Act itself is not an obstacle. It is a package of measures that needs to be taken. We have agreed to participate in the talks. But what I also think is worrying is that there are zero signals, more than the article in DN Debate, about what the government parties actually want. It is difficult to relate to proposals that are not presented. It's a shame you're afraid and you don't dare take the steps. It is clear that the County Administrative Board thinks that the County Administrative Board should remain. But talk to our local politicians, and you'll hear what they have to say!
i-4826adaf846a1061-892	Madam President, I would like Housing policy is long-term and not only extends over one term of office. I would have thought it was a good attitude from the previous alliance government if one had also seen it that way and not locked up with their four and produced investigations from their perspective but invited to talk. A long-term housing policy is something that the industry has been asking for for for a long time. I don't think we should stand here and lock ourselves in different positions for the talks that I think will take place next week. I have said it before and say it again today: there is much to discuss, and we shall do so from openings and not from locks. There have been some proposals, and you know that we also have other proposals. We have many things that we agree on. But, of course, there are things that we will hit on each other's heads. This may be about investment aid, market rents and so on. But I think we can lay a good foundation for a common long-term housing policy in the future. That is my firm opinion.
i-4826adaf846a1061-894	Madam President, I would like This proposal includes, among other things, the fact that we, the Liberals and the Alliance, want to investigate the interests of the parties, the charges and ensure that the same appeal cannot be brought back. Leif Nysmed then goes to attack and says that people on low incomes will not be able to appeal. My greatest concern is not there, Leif Nysmed. My main concern is that people with low incomes need a place to live and a roof over their heads. Let me take two very simple examples. I have lived in Gårdsten, a suburb of Gothenburg. It has since 15 years received 200 fewer apartments but a 33% population increase. Where do these people live? They live crowded, and they need housing. That's where we need to build. Bishopsgården is another part of Gothenburg that is also incredibly exposed with many who have financial problems. There has been a 20% population increase and eight new apartments in 15 years. These low-income people need a roof over their heads. That is what we politicians need to give them. So to the question. You are not in favour of any changes at all that will have an effect. However, I would like to ask you: do the Social Democrats believe that Sweden has the capacity to receive 150 000 refugees this year with the housing policy we have? That is what the Green Party has said. Do you believe in the Social Democrats that, with the housing policy we have today, we can receive 150 000 asylum seekers in a sensible way?
i-4826adaf846a1061-897	Madam President, I would like I can't answer that question today, Robert Hannah. We don't even know if there'll be as many as 150,000. There were problems with the large amounts that came last year and especially during the autumn. Then we also took steps to cope with the large number that came. I can't answer that today. Today we have a great need for housing, whether we have many migrants coming to us or not. Let's say we're in a hurry with apartments and getting housing. To investigate further again because you did not get the answer you wanted the first time does not solve that problem in any way. Then I think it's better that we take those questions in the talks and look at whether we can move forward. I suspect that you representatives who will be involved in talks with government representatives will lift them up, will they not? It'd be weird if I didn't. It's better than making an announcement that we're going to investigate it. Then we've locked our position. I think that's stupid. I was born in Flemingsberg myself and have lived all my life in the Flemingsberg area. I know what it looks like among the people who live in those areas. It's a tight house. I have neighbors who have lived two or three families in one apartment. That is a serious problem. During the time that the bourgeoisie has ruled in the city of Stockholm, for example, many of the rental apartments that can be demanded of people who have lower incomes and are not able to take out loans have been sold out. Until now, there are 60 000 fewer rental apartments in Stockholm City than in 1990. This is not because the Social Democrats have started building rental apartments, but because of the ideological sales that the Alliance has been engaged in over the years. It has certainly not helped those who need a cheaper dwelling.
i-4826adaf846a1061-903	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that his a in this House and his answer is not aware of whether Sweden is capable of receiving 150 000 refugees this year. Because that's what your government partner wants. They want 150 000 refugees this year. If this is to become a reality, the government cannot come to Parliament with legislation that is so substandard and involves such small baby steps that we can guarantee that we cannot accept them. For several months now, the Liberals have been asking the government to come back with a humanitarian emergency in the PBL so that we can put a roof over our asylum seekers' heads. If a party is really in favour of generous reception of refugees, it must also back it up with labour and housing legislation that makes us able to accept these people. It is unserious to have two government parties where one says it wants 150 000 asylum seekers this year and the other party says that it does not. At the same time, we do not want to change housing legislation, which is an obstacle to us being able to receive people in a sensible way. What will happen to a strong asylum reception that we already have is that these people will end up in Gårdsten and Bishopsgården. But we will not be able to build housing for them. They will also end up in your town of Flemingsberg. But there will be no housing for them. Regardless of whether you are converting rental apartments into residential apartments, 700,000 homes were missing in Sweden before the refugee crisis came. If a government is to be serious and serious in its housing policy, it must also see the reality of what it is. The conditions that existed when the investigations said no were in a completely different Sweden. It was not a Sweden that received 160 000 refugees last year, but a completely different Sweden. These are new conditions, and new conditions require parties that are serious to consider their previous positions in order to meet the needs that exist here today. Unfortunately, the Green Party and the Social Democrats do not.
i-4826adaf846a1061-909	Madam President, I would like Are you serious, Robert Hannah, when you say that the changes contained in your proposals to investigate the subject matter, the fee for appeal of detailed plans and to limit the possibility of appeal to building permits would create 150 000 new homes? I don't think that's serious. At the same time, the Liberals are proposing a reduction in the wages of those entering the labour market. These are the people we are talking about. At the same time, it proposes market rents. In Vårby Gård there are 200 applicants for each rental apartment today. Do you seriously think that these apartments would be cheaper with market rent? I don't think so. Your proposals are nonsense. People with even lower wages than the lowest wages today would not solve housing policy. It would not create a demand for any housing, possibly tents, but nothing more. Then we'd have to make it free to camp a little everywhere. More seriously than that, I cannot take your housing policy proposal.
i-4826adaf846a1061-912	Madam President, I would like The fact that there is a housing shortage in Sweden has surely not passed anyone by. We see the housing shortage spreading in all municipalities in Sweden. This causes huge problems in the labour market with regard to the possibility of housing and has other consequences. The housing units are full of people seeking asylum in Sweden. As a result of the Ebo legislation, many apartments in Sweden today are creaked. It won't hold. We want to get a refugee break in order to get some order in housing policy. What kind of measures does the government propose? They are very few, I have to say, because the crisis situation that we have been facing has been behind the failed migration policy for a very long time. However, we are pleased with the proposal that is on the table for decisions today. Of course we're behind it. It is a little thin, but it does contain very important questions. Already when the report of the PBL appeal investigation came in 2014, the Swedish Democrats supported the proposal to remove the county boards as an appeal body and go directly with appeals to the Land and Environment Court for detailed plans and area regulations. We believe that, as you can read in the documents, this will strengthen the role of county boards as a consultation party. It is also estimated that processing times will be reduced by 41⁄2 months. It is very important that we in Sweden today have an average of six years to get a home up, and in the big cities it is eight years and perhaps longer. This also means, of course, that more construction companies will have the opportunity to participate and that it will be cheaper housing with the shorter processing time. It may also be interesting to look at the extent to which building permits can be included in removing county boards from the appeal chain. However, we agree with the proposal put forward by the government in the bill, which means that this step should be taken primarily to evaluate the consequences of this. As far as housing policy is concerned, it is important that we take steps that do not make hasty proposals that we do not know exactly what they lead to. However, this is something that we see many times when it comes to proposals from parties here in Parliament: we want to move very quickly. I and the Swedish Democrats think it is more important to have a housing policy and a building that harmonises with population growth. This would mean not having to make hasty decisions without knowing the consequences. The maintenance of county boards as an appeal body for building permits also means, as we read, that costs do not need to increase as much. We believe, as has been said, that the county administrative boards may be needed on the ground and that it will thus also be easier for them to participate in the treatments. Several issues have been discussed in housing policy on the areas of appeal. But there are also other issues that are important to add to the debate. We see that the government announces to review the issues that have been discussed, including those raised by the Alliance. It is therefore simply a matter of opening doors to endorse the proposals put forward by the Alliance in its accompanying motions. We Swedish democrats therefore support the proposal put forward by the government and hope for further investigations in such important areas in order to come up with new proposals to simplify the possibility of building.
i-4826adaf846a1061-923	Madam President, I would like It was nice that we changed the President in the course of the debate, so that the President too will be well acquainted with what the order of the courts is and how we now want to change it on the part of the government. The time from idea to finished building and moving in needs to be shorter – we all agree on that. But there are several steps in the process that need to go faster – but not too fast. Building a house is one thing, but what we are building today will also work in 50 years and preferably 100 years. That's why we can not only build houses but also have to build a society. In order to build a society, those who are part of society also need to be part of the process. Therefore, there is a requirement for early consultation in the process and the possibility of appeal later in the process. Today we are debating the latter part: the appeal process. Some of us want to tighten it more, while the government chooses to put forward a proposal that will speed up the process but that does not reduce people's ability to influence the society we are going to build. The changes we are now proposing will mean that the County Administrative Board will no longer sit on double chairs. It also means greater legal certainty. Madam President, I would like The County Administrative Board currently has several different roles during the planning process. They shall, inter alia, represent the State during the consultation and safeguard certain general interests. This part of the County Administrative Board's task is not affected by the proposal we are making today. Once the municipality has adopted a detailed plan, the County Administrative Board has two tasks. Firstly, the County Administrative Board will assess whether the plan can be assumed to be inappropriate in relation to specifically identified criteria. For example, it can be national interest, beach protection and health and safety. This is the so-called appeal. If the plan is inappropriate in relation to any of these criteria, the County Administrative Board may choose to cancel the plan. This part of the County Administrative Board's task is not affected by the proposal we are making today. Secondly, the County Administrative Board today has the role of examining appeals from another party. The indication of probation is nothing that is affected if the county administrative board itself chooses to review the plan. What we are doing now is to remove the county administrative board as an authority for the review of another party. The difference, then, is that the cases will now be dealt with by the Land and Environment Court, for which the government has allocated additional resources. Formally, the County Administrative Board does not need to appeal the decision they want to change, but they can only do just as they have done before. The County Administrative Board will therefore continue to represent the interests of the State. In addition to the government's proposal, on which we and the opposition agree, M, C, L and KD are also exercising further changes to the provisions of the appeal process. Their proposal is something we do not choose to support today. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report. Although we are proposing changes in the appeal process, I hope that we all agree that what we really have to do is reduce the actual number of appeals. We will do that best by getting a better process in the development of detailed plans and sectoral rules where citizens' involvement is clear and gets into the process at an early stage. It is hoped that good consultation processes will also lead to fewer appeals.
i-4826adaf846a1061-934	Madam President, I would like I decided to request a short line on Emma Hult. Let's see how short it gets. The discussion has a little bit of the character that the best becomes the enemy of the good. I agree with Emma Hult that it is important that we plan for the long term and that the homes will last for perhaps 50 to 100 years. I don't know what you were thinking when you built the million-dollar program. Those prisons will last forever, I suppose. But there are major renovation needs. There is a great need to make changes that involve building on one floor, changing the facade, energy-efficientising and taking various measures aimed at lifting an area like this and at the same time creating more housing. It is precisely this type of procedure that can be appealed. A building permit is required, and sometimes a detailed plan change is needed to do such a small thing as renovating, densifying and improving a housing stock. This is where the best becomes the enemy of the good. They will end up in a situation in which not only the detailed plan but also the building permit will be appealed. One end up in the Land and Environment Court, according to the Government's thoughts, and the building permit ends up with the County Administrative Board. We know the county boards' way of working. I find it hard to see that it is being simplified especially much. When a county administrative board that is defoliated on the detailed plan is forced to handle the building permit, it is clear that it will be a changed way of working at the county administrative board. Already at this stage, skills will be lost in the review process, while we need to invest in upgrading skills and improving consultation and dialogue with the municipality when the plans are to be developed. We see how the County Administrative Board acts when it comes to beach protection, for example. It is not very proactive and supportive when it comes to the opportunities to lift the countryside. I'm a little interested in this, because I still notice a curiosity about Emma Hult: What is it in our proposals that she likes and supports and wants to come back to?
i-4826adaf846a1061-940	Madam President, I would like It was good that you got to the question, Ola Johansson, because I was thinking about what it was you were wondering about. I would like to start by saying that I have full confidence in the county boards and the work they do. There is no doubt about the skills that are there. On the other hand, I am a bit perplexed when Ola Johansson points out that the county administrative board is delöved when it comes to the possibility of influencing detailed plans and that they will therefore cause problems in the building permits phase. I would rather argue that the County Administrative Board is now given the role they should have: to develop a detailed plan during the processes and also to be able to influence it. At the next stage, the county administrative board will now not be those who take care of the appeals. For me it will be a clear role for the county administrative board to be involved early in the process. Then you also know, when you get to the building permit, that it was the process you had to develop the detailed plan. I do not see the problem that Ola Johansson sees.
i-4826adaf846a1061-944	Madam President, I would like The character of the speeches we have heard, not just from Emma Hult, is a little bit that we have to wait, wait and see if this is good. None of the representatives of the government parties have yet actually rejected the proposals put forward by the Alliance in its accompanying motions. It may well be that the government's business is being run; we also have a certain habit of doing so. But what still makes me rather curious is this view of the role of the County Administrative Board in the future. Is it as we in the alliance parties point out that it is perhaps more important to be able to find a place to live? You can't live in an appeal. It is perhaps more important, at the stage we are now in, that we ensure that we simplify, improve and speed up the possibilities for a plan that gains legal force and that we simplify the way in which municipalities manage the detailed planning process. Emma Hult is aware that we have put forward proposals to exclude a number of cases where municipalities can decide for themselves whether to develop a detailed plan or whether it is enough to proceed with a building permit. It shall also be possible to delegate the decision-making process. I think it is a little strange, on the basis of the discussion that we are having, that the government parties are still hugging the policies for which the alliance parties have been criticised in the past, given the situation that we are facing with a huge need to build far more housing. I am a little curious to find out Emma Hult's attitude to the proposals we put forward. Is it important for us to be able to shorten the processing times for appeals? Is it important for us to be able to limit the amount of unwieldy appeal? And is it a good idea in the long term to also lift building permits from the county administrative boards over to the land and environmental courts?
i-4826adaf846a1061-950	Madam President, I would like I'm sure we'll agree that we should shorten the processing times for appeals. That is why the government chooses to present this proposal. An investigation was set up, and the investigation shows – if you think it is good or bad, it is up to everyone to decide – that the other measures you propose would not shorten the length of proceedings or reduce the proportion of appeals. That's the problem. You set up an investigation, but you don't get the results you're hoping for. I choose to leave it as openly as the government has called for cross-block talks, and there is a reason for that. This is not something that one side or the other will be able to solve on its own. This is something for which we should have long-term rules of play, and Ola Johansson is at least as involved as I am in the talks that will be held in the future. We were told earlier that the next meeting is next week. I hope that we will arrive at a good joint solution. The most important thing is that we do not constantly change the conditions for those operating in this sector. Changing for municipal administrators or companies in the industry creates uncertainty. No, of course you can't stay in an appeal. It's not a place to live. The proposals you put forward will of course be part of the talks, but I will not anticipate them. We'll have to wait and see.
i-4826adaf846a1061-955	Madam President, I would like It seems to be the government's new way of having a little negotiation and procrastination technology and, in principle, not saying anything at all. Everything you say can be perceived as a position, according to Leif Nysmed. And according to Emma Hult, you don't want to anticipate these conversations. If you invite a call, you still have to know what you want. The only thing we hear is that it is going too fast, that you can't really say anything and that you can't change the conditions. As my alliance colleague Robert Hannah said, conditions have changed. Then you also have to relate to them. We have a housing shortage that has passed into a housing crisis. The municipalities are screaming for action, where, according to them, legislation is currently inhibiting. The municipalities need help. If you are also to demand a lot of municipalities, you have to start cleaning at your own door. Then I would like to know what, according to Emma Hult, was highlighted in the debate article on DN Debate. To be honest, I think we can read it with seven different pairs of eyes and sit there in one room, and everyone can hum and think a little bit and have their different positions. But if something is to come out of this, one must also be clear about what one's positions are. There is much talk of the fact that things are going too fast and that you cannot say what you think. Obviously, we are not allowed to make announcements because it is a way of locking positions. What do you think? What do you want? It is about everything from what was expressed in this debate article at DN Debate. What is it that you to some extent think is good? We have not received any more answers. I always feel that I have more questions than answers after listening to the government representatives.
i-4826adaf846a1061-961	Madam President, I would like I am here today to debate a shorter chain of review of detailed plans and sectoral rules. I am not here to explain the government's positions on housing policy talks.
i-4826adaf846a1061-962	Madam President, I would like This is Emma Hult's usual way. She makes very brief speeches and does not say much. And now the procrastination technique is not to say anything because negotiations are under way. So we haven't seen each other in six weeks. But the only thing the government's waiting for is for us to send in some suggestions. You must also develop politics. You must also see the seriousness. I can tell you honestly that I'm pretty worried. Yes, we are debating today the shorter chain of instances. However, in the debate on the DN Debate, you touched on one. Your housing minister and government finance and state ministers still wrote an article. It still has to be a will, and it still has to say something. To be perfectly honest, I am absolutely convinced that the Green Party would never have voted in favour of this proposal if you had not been in the government. So I'm giving Emma another chance. On the basis of the report we are discussing today, what possible changes are there to be made? Or was it to remove the county council, which was what you could imagine?
i-4826adaf846a1061-967	Madam President, I would like To say that we would not be in favour of this if we had been in opposition is interesting. I do not see that this is contrary to any of the previous decisions that we have taken that the County Administrative Board should not play a role in the review of these matters. The County Administrative Board has a role in the process of developing a detailed plan. It is important because the County Administrative Board represents the interests of the state in this development. They say it's been six weeks since you met. But I wasn't there, so I don't know when you last met. Nor am I able to declare where the government stands in these talks. But I think I know that you have been asked to submit your comments, and I think I know that you were then also told that you will find out what the government thinks. But it is not my role here today to tell you what the government has to enter into the talks to be held, especially before the talks have taken place. The tone and attitude of Caroline make me a little concerned, and I wonder what happens when you sit down and talk at the same table.
i-4826adaf846a1061-971	Madam President, I would like I am the last speaker in the debate, and I am very pleased that everyone has waited. Today we are discussing the report by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs on a shorter chain of agencies for detailed plans and sectoral regulations. It is a legislative amendment that hopefully will streamline appeal proceedings while maintaining legal certainty. It is now urgent that we manage to build a great many more homes than we have done in recent years. For the Left Party, it is extremely important that we ensure that young people, older people and everyone in between have a safe home to live in that does not cost too much money. You should have the freedom to move where you want, where you may have a new job or where you may live near your grandchildren. And it shouldn't take millions at the bank to do this. It is important that we build and plan cities that stick together and that we can all enjoy. It is therefore particularly important that the consultation processes in construction projects work well. They're important. Better and smarter ideas can be picked up. Maybe we can build multi-family houses instead of giant villas in some places. We can have a better infrastructure with school and preschool around our residential areas or make sure to plan for other community services in a better way. Many interests need to be weighed together in order for us to have good homes and pleasant residential areas. At the same time, it is precisely our common existence that needs to be planned and controlled. This also means that specific self-interest cannot and should not outweigh the general interest to build many homes, for example. For example, it will be a problem if our municipal politicians feel that they cannot build multi-family buildings and rental apartments in the residential areas of large cities because they will then have a lot of lengthy appeal proceedings. Making appeal processes more effective is also a way of giving more powerful tools to municipal politicians who need to build away segregation in our cities. We know that in the future it will be important and necessary to mix the villa carpets with student housing, old-age housing and multi-family houses. The appeal tool was never intended as a tool for well-off residents who want to prevent or hinder important work against segregation and for increased association. We need to be clear about that. At the same time, perhaps we should not overestimate the impact of changes in the appeal structure. After all, we know that more than 80 per cent of the detailed plans are never appealed and that the appeals to the county administrative boards have in fact been completed quite quickly. The county administrative boards have done a solid job of reducing processing times. Many more things need to be done to seriously rebuild the housing shortage. We need to build rental apartments that people can afford to live in, and that requires targeted state aid. There the government and the Left Party agree on a large housing package, but we now need to move forward. More housing policy support needs to go to new production. Unnecessaryly much of the housing policy support we jointly provide to the housing sector – that is 30 – 40 billion per year – today leads to the prices of existing housing being raised. For example, the interest deduction is money that is currently at risk of disappearing into the banks' mortgage gains and the profit margins of the large construction companies. That's where we need to reconsider. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs visited the Riksbank this week, which testifies to the fact that the price increases on dwellings in recent years have skyrocketed, and wages do not come close to keeping up. An apartment that just a few years ago cost maybe 11⁄2 million can today cost 4 or 5 million. Today you need to put aside a thousand a month for nearly 30 years in order to get anywhere near a right-of-occupancy apartment in Stockholm. Who really benefits from such a development? Yes, it is perhaps the big banks and the big construction companies. However, for everyone else who actually needs a place to live, the housing market makes it absolutely impossible today to make free and secure choices. Instead, wardrobes and third-hand contracts are the alternative. We also know what the right-of-occupancy market looks like – there we have a so-called free market. There, prices are not negotiated between two major parties, and there is still far too little construction. It may be a freedom for construction companies and banks, but it is no freedom for anyone who wants a place to live and who does not happen to be millionaires. So should those who are calling for increased rents today. The higher the prices, the smaller the land becomes marketable. The same goes for the reverse: If we succeed in pushing construction prices and the large profit margins become more land-building from a market perspective. Let us not force customers, whether they want to rent or buy, to pay prices that are completely irrationally high! No one benefits from it, neither everyone who is without a home today nor the companies and the business community that want people to continue to have money in their wallets to consume other things than housing and food. Sweden currently has Europe's highest building prices. It's nothing to be proud of. It is above all rental properties we need to build in the future. Most people agree on that. The conversions from rentals to tenant-owners we have seen have greatly reduced the possibility for ordinary people to get a tenancy. We want to see the state use its ability to borrow at record low interest rates and then go in with targeted efforts – preferential loans – to those who build rental apartments. The issue of capital, that is, how we finance construction, is the most important thing in order to bring about construction, and targeted efforts are what have an effect. If we are to get 70 000 – 80 000 homes per year, this is absolutely necessary. The Left Party proposal would provide 50 000 rents per year. Madam President, I would like Sometimes it is highlighted in the debate that some – and this means almost always low-income people – should live with a little worse standard than everyone else. Maybe they should share a bathroom or a kitchen, or maybe they should live in worse environments. The Left Party does not believe that at all. The houses we are building today will last for perhaps a hundred years, and to refrain from building in the best possible way is, in fact, only stupid. Then you exchange short-term small profits for long-term problems. We certainly cannot afford that. We will have good housing for everyone who lives in Sweden. Accessing housing segregation is one of our most important issues in the future. There we know that the common good plays a major role. With it we can make sure to build more mixed, build rentals where they are far too few, build together the city and the suburbs and ensure that public services are available in all parts of our cities and residential areas. This week SVT was able to show that many people use the money in the municipal company to pay for other municipal activities. Of course, it is quite the wrong timing to do so now that the housing shortage is so large and the overcrowding is increasing. The worst was the Stockholm Moderates from the last term of office, who took billions out of the housing company to finance tax cuts for wealthy Stockholmers. The money could have gone to new rentals instead. It is therefore important to tighten the restrictions on removals from municipal housing companies. Greater momentum is now required to build away the housing shortage. We have done that in the past in Sweden, and we will be able to do that now. It is a question of political will. With the kind contributions to the government, I support the proposal of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in its report CU16.
i-4826adaf846a1061-988	Madam President, I would like It is tempting to respond to Nooshi Dadgostar's speech, but since I think we should stick to the PBL issues, I choose not to do so. That is quite interesting, because a question put to another Member was: if you had not been a support party, would you have put forward a government proposal which means that appeals against detailed plans should not remain on the county boards but be moved to the land and environment courts? That is, of course, a hypothetical question, but perhaps one could find the answer in what I heard Nooshi say – that the public interest should be above self-interest. That sounds great, because the general interest we have is to build more homes. A self-interest one may have is to appeal a building permit, and Nooshi Dadgostar does not think that anyone other than the county administrative board should handle that. According to the history of the Left Party over the past four years, and even today to some extent, it is not the public interest that should take precedence over self-interest. They are opposed to changes in the noise guidelines, and they are opposed to changes that mean that the municipalities themselves are allowed to decide about plan decisions – who should make the decisions and in which cases a detailed plan needs to be developed. We are opposed to what we are discussing here today, namely that it should not be allowed to make cross-appeals and that we should further simplify and shorten the appeal process. Regional planning is a proposal we have not yet come up with on the table, but I wonder what the Left Party's attitude to it is. With regard to the granted building permits, such as Attefallshus, takcupor and other, the Left Party was against, and as regards the possibility of building near the shore, the Left Party is also opposed. The curious question I have – we will also meet in the housing negotiations – is therefore: what are the regulatory simplifications advocated by the Left Party?
i-4826adaf846a1061-992	Madam President, I would like I am very happy that Ola Johansson feels so tempted by my speech. I hope that this will last all spring and during the discussions on housing policy. Ola Johansson has misunderstood the role of the Left Party in Swedish politics. So we are not in the government, but we are the most creative and driving opposition party. For we are involved in pushing through our proposals without, for that reason, being in a government. We are an opposition party that wants to talk, which does so and which comes to concrete decisions. Ola Johansson's party is not such an opposition party, but he has closed the door to talks. I don't know exactly what Ola Johansson is asking for. We are in favour of this report, and, as I said, if we are to be completely honest, it is not the Left Party voters who appeal the housing projects. If you go out and talk to the municipal politicians, you can see that there is unfortunately a fear of building multi-family houses and rental apartments in areas where there are large villa carpets, because the municipalities are worried that there will be many people and appeal. We now see, for example, in Gothenburg, where you want to place housing for newly arrived Swedes in residential areas, that there will be a very hallaballo around it. I find that rather unpleasant. That's what's under there. I still think that the general interest is to build many more homes, good housing. This requires a good consultation process in which we can take into account all the different interests. For that, it requires a regulatory framework. That's just the way it is. We need to check ground conditions. We have to make sure there are preschools. We need to take all these interests into account. We can't just ignore the whole thing.
i-4826adaf846a1061-997	Madam President, I would like I believe that the role of the Left Party in Swedish politics is to be against what can lead the way in housing policy. What are you for, apart from what I would not debate with you on, tax issues or issues relating to subsidies and matters relating to renting? What I'm curious to know here now is what kind of regulatory simplifications Nooshi Dadgostar could consider agreeing to in the upcoming housing talks. The only thing we have heard from Nooshi Dadgostar here now is that we should all live in the same housing at the same cost. However, I am sorry, Madam President, that is not a way forward in politics. This will not happen, even if it is the Left Party's dream. If this is the hopes of the Left Party for the housing talks, I am sorry that I will have to say thank you and good-bye to Nooshi Dadgostar after one or two meetings. But it would be a shame to come to a discussion about housing without proposals of our own and with a history of saying no to everything that improves and simplifies, while at the same time arguing in the debate that the public interest should take precedence over self-interest. I am also a little curious as to which empirical Nooshi Dadgostar is based on the claim that it is not the Left Party voters who appeal housing plans.
i-Jxr2ZbozTorL9m53e9fYv3	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Johansson! The Left Party is the party throughout the House that delivers the proposals that would provide the most housing. 50 000 rents would be included in the proposal for preferential government loans delivered by the Left Party a few weeks ago. Ola Johansson's proposal does not even come close to this. Making the changes proposed by Ola Johansson would perhaps provide two more three homes. Isn't that right, Ola Johansson? That is the difference between us: Three homes with Ola Johansson's politics and 50 000 with Left Party politics. I'm happy to deliver further suggestions. I think we should have regional planning, because it is a problem that Danderyd municipality has today sold out all its commons. They are ten minutes from Stockholm University but deliver 60 homes in one year. That's a problem. It is a problem that Ekerö does not build. It's a problem that Salem doesn't build. It is a problem that in a huge region that needs so many homes, several bourgeois municipalities have sold out all their commons and say stop to the construction projects. We can't have that! All municipalities must contribute housing in order for us to get to the housing shortage. We think we should change the rules in the common good. Today we have business principles in the legislation of public housing companies. The local politicians have today made an interpretation that the Left Party and Sabo do not agree with. You have more room for manoeuvre than you think. However, if we interpret this legislation differently, we think that the government must go in and change the regulatory framework that exists in the public good today that means that it does not believe that it can build more housing than those that are currently being built. If the commons start to build out in our municipalities, the private companies will follow suit, and that would be very good for Sweden.
i-4826adaf846a1061-1007	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by pointing out that the grand effort that the lizard-green parties are talking about here on subsidies and the like costs about 5 billion. This is about as much as Magdalena Andersson took out from Akademiska Hus's profits instead of letting them build homes as well. One can say that this government acts in the same way as the Alliance did when they ruled in Stockholm City. It is easy to point fingers at others but perhaps less easy to do it for themselves. But that's not really what I wanted to talk about. I would like to talk a little to the Member of Parliament, Mr Nooshi Dadgostar, about the reception of refugees. All parties that stand for a generous refugee policy must also be able to back it up with a housing policy that makes it possible to give people who have fled to Sweden a reasonable roof over their heads. Right now, we are building temporary dwellings, containers, with temporary building permits that are uncertain whether we will achieve them. For several months now, the Liberals have asked the government to introduce a humanitarian emergency permit in PBL, so that, for example, premises can be converted into housing as quickly as possible and people do not have to sleep in beds in Malmömässan, for example. We have said that we want to ensure that asylum accommodation for people can be built faster. We have said that we do not want to see a situation where you have to take out municipal housing and give it to asylum seekers, because there are so many people in the housing queue – 500 000 in Stockholm, for example. Does Nooshi Dadgostar think that we in Sweden have the capacity to cover all these people with the housing policy that we have now without making any regulatory simplifications? Is there anything that the Left Party thinks you can do, regulatory simplifications or other things, to get apartments very quickly here and now?
i-4826adaf846a1061-1012	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Hannah, for the very urgent question! If I remember correctly, you and I were both at Boverket a few months ago. There we saw the development of the population in relation to how many homes we build. The graph that showed that we are becoming many more increased very strongly in 2006, when the alliance government came to power, while at the same time it was built very little during that period. And the investment aid was removed, which led to a steep drop in construction. From 2006 onwards, when we became very many more in Sweden, it was built less and less. The bourgeois parties managed to build up a huge deficit during their period of power. When you listen to this debate, you should know that this lack of housing did not come with a refugee reception, but it is an underlying policy over two terms of office that has meant that we have far too few housing in relation to the population we have today. I agree with Robert Hannah that Akademiska Hus should take a much greater responsibility for housing construction. We think that the regulation that came in a few months ago on housing was quite reasonable. We can certainly look at how we make changes so that we can use the enormous capacity that still exists in the municipalities. There are quite a few empty premises and facilities in the municipalities. We need to be able to use them. I'm definitely in on it. I think we need to look at how we can also give people the privilege of renting out, for example, a room or a holiday home. Can we look at those regulations so that people can feel involved and participate in this?
i-4826adaf846a1061-1017	Madam President, I would like There are differences of opinion as to who did what or what was not done. But I can sum up that in the years when the municipality of Gothenburg has been governed by the red-green ones, since 1994, it has never ever been able to meet the goals. It is clearly behind and is Sweden's most segregated city due to the lack of housing construction. Who's in charge, we can talk about a lot of times. But the question here is: do we now have the capacity to give a roof over the heads of the asylum seekers who are here? I'm having a hard time seeing it. What this will lead to is that areas like you and I care very much about, areas in the suburbs of Gothenburg, Stockholm and Malmö, will be forced to take the big responsibility because we do not have a roof over our heads for the asylum seekers. I'm afraid Gårdsten will have even more inhabitants. I'm afraid the Bishop's farm will have even more inhabitants. I am afraid that Gothenburg suburbs will be even more segregated. I agree with Mrs Nooshi on what she said in her speech, that the general interest must take precedence and that we must streamline the appeal proceedings. For me it is simply about that I do not want to see more segregation in Sweden. I want to see all kinds of living environments – rental apartments, flats and detached homes – in all parts of the city. But then you have to back it up with a substantial policy. It is not only possible to say that we should use premises without saying that we need legislation that allows us to use premises for housing. My questions remain: does the Left Party believe that we need a humanitarian exception in the PBL so that we can put a roof over the heads of refugees and get housing quickly? What does the Left Party think can be done more than to think something is good? Everyone in here can agree that we should put a roof over the heads of asylum seekers, but the question is how and with what legislation the Left Party intends to contribute to this.
i-4826adaf846a1061-1022	Madam President, I would like I thank Robert Hannah for an important question. It is not just asylum seekers who are homeless today. They are students, and it is older people who can't live in their three-storey villa anymore but don't have any old people's homes to move to. The problem is bigger than that. It'll be a little small if we just point out the people who came here last week. The lack of housing concerns all of us. That's why it's a social problem. We've got regulatory simplifications for construction housing. We haven't said anything about that. If there are still problems there, I am anxious that we sit down and look at it, because I know that there are many premises and facilities. I get calls from People's House saying they can't rent out their premises because there are rules that prevent it. It's bad. We're definitely going to look at this. It is not wrong to have an industrial construction, that is to say that we assemble houses in a factory, lift them out and put them on the ground. If that's what Robert Hannah means by containers, we have different opinions. I believe that it does not have to mean a reduction in quality just because you build the wall in a factory instead of on site. I don't have a problem with that. I hope that Robert Hannah, who is from Gothenburg, thinks it is good and works to place, for example, housing for new arrivals in areas such as Billdal and Askim to break the segregation. It's a good thing if we make sure that people meet in everyday life. Something that would be extremely negative and increase segregation is market rents, Robert Hannah.
