i-669ef95baabface2-2	Mr President, I would like to The fact that I wanted to use the wrong speaker's chair is, of course, due to my intense interpelling to the government in order to demand responsibility and answers around an unclear policy in many areas. However, this is a speech. One might think that this is a small matter, Mr President: a report evaluating the effectiveness of certain types of labour market measures and the wording of the government in this regard. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that this type of measure in labour market policy is not very effective. The impact on employment of this type of measure may even be negative overall. However, as the government is now most pleased, Mr President, with the state of affairs. If things go well or bad, it seems to be less important. You are generally satisfied and want to communicate a positive picture of Sweden, whether it is true and based on facts or not. It is a kind of party strategy more than an economic labour market analysis. On the part of the Moderates and the Alliance, we believe that active labour market policies are important. It may not be what primarily governs how much employment and how high the participation rate is in society, but it is the other factors that do: how much it pays to work, what rules exist in social security and benefit systems, how much pay you get, how competitive Sweden is and how much companies can grow and employ. But, Mr President, for large groups in the labour market, active labour market policies play an essential role. These are people who have had problems during schooling and who have not been able to equip themselves to meet the high demands of employability on the labour market. Here policy becomes all the more important – to find and design the right kind of tools, which really give these people the opportunity to enter the labour market and eventually achieve their own livelihood without different types of subsidies. There, the wording comes in as an important component, namely that large resources are spent on ineffective measures. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we think that this criticism should be taken more seriously, reconsidered and spent on the most effective measures. New start job is one of those things. We have also proposed a wide range of measures that could be taken. We come back in our budget proposal with more proposals of different types that can be used and increase opportunities. Somewhere, Mr President, one should ask why the government is satisfied. Why do they want to maintain this type of policy, and why do they not want to increase flexibility and the possibility of local adaptation when requested? It is an open question why the government is so satisfied with a system that does not work and which is now also receiving clear criticism. With this, Mr President, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 by Elisabeth Svantesson and others.
i-669ef95baabface2-9	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to ask for approval, but for the Christian Democratic reservation in the report. Today, we are debating a letter from the Government based on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Arbetsförmedlingen's procurements and instructions for labour market training. The review that has been carried out shows that the Government does not specify how the procurement of labour market training should be conducted or how the activities should be organised in order to meet the objectives that the Public Employment Service has to relate to. The job services' own analyses also show that labour market training is organised that does not always correspond to a shortage of the labour market. It is a little remarkable that they do such an own analysis. In some cases, places are assigned to people who are not in a position to benefit from the training. When it comes to adapting education to regional and local demand, the report from the Swedish National Audit Office shows that the analysis is carried out at the Swedish Public Employment Service's head office. This means that the recruitment needs of local employers are not fully taken into account. It's something I often hear when I'm travelling in the country – the courses are not adapted. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that less extensive, regionally initiated procurements of labour market training should be carried out. In the early 2000s, labour market training was able to show relatively good results; approximately 70 per cent got a job after education. Today, the Swedish Public Employment Service notes that the impact of the programmes is small. In recent years they have sometimes been non-existent or even negative. It has thus turned out that a person could have obtained a job earlier if he had not received labour market training. The Government does not specify any specific measures against the poor needs analysis but refers to the 2015 regulatory letter which, according to the Government, gives the Authority more opportunity to adapt the procurements and instructions to labour market training to the needs of employers. The 2016 regulatory letter states that improved matching is to be achieved by countering recruitment problems in the labour market. Under the current circumstances, the government would have had to adopt more clearly the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations in order to ensure that less extensive and regionally initiated procurements are made. In my opinion, in the light of the worsening performance, general objectives in regulatory letters are not enough to reverse developments. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's review further shows that in some counties there are training courses that do not necessarily intend to remedy a shortage of the labour market and where it can be assumed that the participants will not even be able to benefit from the training. The question then is what effect many of these training courses have. The Employment Service must ensure that first and foremost work is done to provide jobs and ensure that people receive their unemployment benefit according to the regulations. Other actors than the Employment Service are probably better placed to train the unemployed to become more mobile in the labour market. Only 15.9 per cent of the participants in Employment Service labour market training had a job 90 days after the training. Of course, for a cost of SEK 1.3 billion, this is completely inadequate. The Christian Democrats consider that people who attend vocational education and training have far more opportunity to get a job after education than after a labour market training provided by the Employment Service. Having said that, Mr President, I believe that the government should take steps to phase out labour market training in favour of more places in vocational adult education.
i-669ef95baabface2-19	Mr President, I would like to I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal. The Swedish National Audit Office has during its review identified problems and, based on this, made recommendations and proposals to the Government and the Swedish Public Employment Service. In the Government's letter, we can read that the Government agrees with many of the comments made by the Swedish National Audit Office. Active labour market policies, which include labour market training as an important element, are a prerequisite for achieving the government's objective of reducing unemployment and increasing employment. Like the government, we in the majority of committees believe that it is important that the efforts made are both accurate and cost-effective. It is therefore important that labour market training is targeted at those who are deemed to benefit most from the action. Let me remind you, before we move on, what it looked like when we gave up government power in 2006. At that time they had a result of 70 per cent that went to work after labour market training. That was a good result. Then the dreary bourgeois, moderate-led government cut down heavily on the educations. The result fell drastically, even down to 30 percent. This, unfortunately, was done because the then Minister for Labour Sven-Sven-Otto Littorin said that it was the market that would manage this. It was a deterioration of the regulatory framework, a deterioration of resources and a cool interest in the labour market. Now our government, the Social Democratic-led government, has begun a reform work that gives the Public Employment Service more opportunities to fulfil its mission. Now the trend has actually reversed. The latest figure is now at 45% and rising. During the time of the Alliance in government – under the criticism and pressure against the Employment Service, which led to the resignation of the Director General and the Minister for Labour – people began to be pushed into labour market training, although they knew that they were not in a position to cope with them. They started counting sticks, like they said. This led to even worse results. What do you do now? Now our government has implemented a number of measures to change the governance of Arbetsförmedlingen, via the regulatory letters for the financial years 2015 – 2016, which means less detailed governance and clearer focus on results. Statskontoret also notes in its report that the reduced control of detail and increased devolution mean that it is moving in the right direction. In order to contribute to a more effective labour market policy, the government has simplified and clarified the regulatory framework, improved conditions for local cooperation and introduced increased opportunities for unemployed people to combine work with education. All this rescheduling is aimed at improving matching. There is also a great deal of work going on within Arbetsförmedlingen to meet employers' needs. As you have wished, the Government has decided on 22 June this year to set up an investigation for a broad review of the state commitment and the Employment Service's mandate. Mr President, I would like to Current and future labour market training are important components for a good matching of job vacancies. Employment services' cooperation with employers should be strengthened in order to be able to meet the matching successfully. This work is closely followed by the government. It's great, and it's great that there's also a lot of interest on our part in this. We believe in active labour market policies. Unfortunately, the former government's lack of interest and inaction lowered the trust and results of the Employment Service. This is now turning our government around with relevant policies. Within Arbetsförmedlingen there is also great internal work that is called the Renewal Trip. It bodes well. The direction is moving forward for the better.
i-669ef95baabface2-29	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by commending the government for keeping the most important labour market measure implemented by the Alliance: not only the first job tax credit but all five job tax deductions retain the government in its policy. The budget proposal also gives them approximately the employment effect that the Alliance Government estimated them to be, 130 000 jobs. So I would like to commend Raimo Pärssinen and his fellow party members for swallowing pride and keeping in their budget the most effective measure of our time to get people to work. Raimo Pärssinen, however, is guilty of the answer when it comes to the results of the labour market policy measures which he otherwise defends. Raimo Pärssinen boasts of good results in various types of measures under the Social Democratic Government. According to the evaluations that have been carried out, this is largely due to the fact that they were filled with human beings who themselves did not need them. To trix a with the statistics, hide, judge and forget were well established concepts, not only in the political debate but also far beyond, when Ylva Johansson last time had the task of pushing down the unemployment figures without a single more job being created in the economy. Then it wanted to inflate the volumes of action. If you have a lot of people with a high working capacity in action, to hide the underlying problem that you cannot manage the jobs, it is clear that you can also get much higher results in the evaluations. When the Swedish National Audit Office was visiting the committee, it confirmed that the Alliance's actions were more effective because they turned to the groups that needed them, not to groups that would only be hidden in the statistics.
i-669ef95baabface2-33	Mr President, I would like to We hear that Niklas Wykman comes from the Tax Committee, and he loves all the tax cuts. Then there should reasonably be major tax cuts in the Moderate Budget Movement – a sixth job tax deduction to fix this with unemployment. But can Mr Wykman present to us in this House that unemployment went well during the time when you ruled and did all these tax cuts? No. Can Wykman lead in evidence that it was your government and your actions that made labour market training more effective? No. They sank like a rock because of your politics. Those are facts. Then you can try to blow it up or trix a with the statistics. This is how it was, and it comes from very credible sources. Since there was such a big crisis in Arbetsförmedlingen due to the government's lack of interest – it also led to major changes in the crews – they lost confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen. That's what happened. Now it's a horse job to turn the ship around, but it's about to happen now. Instead of surrounding intermediaries with detailed regulatory systems, we are now opening up to be professional at their position as intermediaries. That's the difference. You had the policy of addressing only those furthest from the labour market. This meant that it was often the wrong people who were recruited for the training courses, which gave a bad result. That is what is now being changed. Niklas Wykman may think you can fix this with a sixth job tax deduction. We Social Democrats do not believe that. We're convinced it won't help. Go to Arbetsförmedlingen instead!
i-669ef95baabface2-39	Mr President, I would like to I share roughly the assessment made by Raimo Pärssinen's own government regarding the effects of the job tax credit. That is also why Raimo Pärssinen is now a supporter of the job tax deduction, because his own party in its budget is behind each of them, of course for good reason, even if he wants to make himself more of a political agitator than someone who actually sees the effects of politics. Sources and evaluations are being requested. The active labour market policy consists of several measures: new start-up jobs, matching positions, professional skills and so on. The combination of this is what is to be evaluated and what measures are to be adopted. The fact is, for example, that only in their first year had about three times as many participants as all the different new forms that the government has set up and talked a lot about, which do not work and which are very inefficient. It is therefore clear that the measures taken by the Alliance Government were effective, as the Minister for Labour, for example, said when she was in committee the other day. New start jobs were effective. Raimo Pärssinen, on the other hand, wants to invest in measures that can hide, judge and forget people. This is how the Employment Service itself writes about them: Those who have attended the work placement and labour market training programmes received unsubsidised work to a somewhat lower extent than those who have not joined the programmes. In 2014, this negative effect has been reinforced. Some 5 percentage points of job seekers who started work placements or labour market training during the year had received unsubsidised work compared to those who did not participate in the programmes, one year after the start of the programme. So this is what Raimo Pärssinen thinks it is worth investing in in labour market policies, measures that reduce the chances of jobs, when there are effective measures that increase the chances of jobs. But it's clear that in the meantime you might be visible in the statistics.
i-669ef95baabface2-45	Mr President, I would like to On the contrary, I would like to say that Niklas Wykman has just described the trend that was in 2014 and so on. It was the result of the moderate-led government's labour market policy. The measurement is within that time span. You're the one who made this worse. To come and say that it was we who did it is almost too much, I was about to say. Job tax deductions have proved to be effective. Yeah, but there's a deadweight in the whole thing. About 60% had got a job anyway. But I hope that Niklas Wykman now agrees that it is great that we do these limitations when it comes to new start jobs. We saw elements on TV that the taxi industry is broken because this has been abused. Now we are making changes to make new start jobs even more effective. I really hope Niklas Wykman will do that. Then there is the issue of taxes. Of course we're changing taxes. We are. We heard yesterday that you in the Moderates themselves say you have to raise some taxes. We want to do the same. And what we've done is we've started to scale down the job tax deduction. We will continue to do so. But we do so at a pace so that we can make ends meet so that we can strengthen resources for prosperity. We will now invest 10 billion in the welfare of the municipalities. Niklas Wykman dreams of a sixth job tax deduction. That's how he thinks there'll be more jobs. We do not believe that, and I believe that the majority of the Swedish people will understand this after they have seen the results of your moderate-led government.
i-669ef95baabface2-49	Mr President, I would like to I think we need a little more debate on this issue. The report deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of the regional adjustment of labour market training. I think it is very unclear what the government intends to do about this. First of all, I would like an answer from Raimo Pärssinen. What do the Social Democrats think should be done specifically to make things better during the time we have labour market training in this way? Then I would like to comment on the efforts of the Alliance in relation to labour market measures. We got into a boom. I do not know whether Raimo Pärssinen agrees with me that the number of labour market training courses should be adapted. If there is a boom and there is a great demand, you cannot have as many as when there is a recession. One must somehow ensure that the workforce is available – right? It can't be that a lot of labour market education is always great and fewer are always bad. It is just like high taxes are always good and low taxes are always bad. Sometimes when you hear the rhetoric of the Social Democrats, you think: Do they have any kind of competence in this area to speak? I would like to have a small comment on the issue of labour market training and how many you should have. We believe that we must now ensure that there is a driving force for going to work. According to the Financial Policy Council, the job tax deduction has proven to have an effect on incentives to go to work. But my question in the first turn is: what do you intend to do in concrete terms to improve local labour market training and to meet employers' wishes?
i-669ef95baabface2-53	Mr President, I would like to It's just like Désirée Pethrus says. As far as labour market training is concerned, the most important thing must be that it corresponds to a match. When there is a boom, there is a shortage in certain areas. Then one must somehow try to face that flaw. Then, when there is a recession, something is also required. So it's the same thing. It is necessary to equip people so that they can go in and take the jobs that are available. But what I meant was: When Sven Otto Littorin cut down sharply the matching problem increased. That's not good. It was a big craving for labor. Of course it took some time before this increased, but it increased. So it was a wrong grip, I think. Then I would like to commend Mrs Pethrus. If I am not mistaken, she had a debate, either during Question Time or during an interpellation debate, with the Minister for Labour on these particular training courses. The Minister for Labour was quite sharp in tone. She follows this very closely and requires results from the agency. The result is still far too low – we know that. If it's 45 percent, it's at least risen from 30. The mediation is tasked with working systematically to improve the results. Then you should go through the whole chain, i.e. the needs, and you should look over your market areas. But above all, it is about being able to get more direct contact with employers, both locally and regionally. Since the agency has been strongly criticised for this – sometimes it is quite right that it has been criticised – it says that there are much more opportunities and flexibility today in organising it both regionally and locally. This is an issue that we must follow very closely on the part of the committee. But now there is a better systematic work on it. It is promised that there will be better results. I'm looking forward to that.
i-669ef95baabface2-57	Mr President, I would like to We will also acknowledge that the Arbetsförmedlingen received a huge new assignment in 2009 with the start-up assignment. Of course, the big change may have affected their effectiveness. In the end, however, we still have to question the effectiveness of labour market training. It cannot be the case that the Social Democrats are hugging labour market education for their own sake or that they want to hide unemployment statistics. Hopefully that's not the case. Then I think like this: Whether it's a boom or a recession, Raimo Pärssinen thinks that you should use labour market training. It is adapted to what employers need. However, the supply of labour needs to be made available quickly. Then I think the report from the Swedish National Audit Office on Volvo Cars, which we had in the committee, was very telling. It said that labour market training sometimes delayed entry into the labour market. It is not always best to have labour market training. I believe that the Social Democrats must dare to challenge their own image: that labour market training is the good thing at all times. We must dare to question that. I think education is great. And we'll see to the match. That's what was the Alliance's, and also the Christian Democrats', thing during the alliance period. Matching in the labour market needs to be improved. Now we have a very large group that is far from the labour market. They are the most difficult in the labour market. Then my question is: what do the Social Democrats intend to do to improve matching? We have seen several different initiatives from the Minister for Labour, but a great deal has been lost. Nothing concrete has happened. What does Raimo Pärssinen say? What are you going to do for all those who are far from the labour market and who may find it difficult to assimilate labour market training? What do you want? The Social Democrats do for that group?
i-669ef95baabface2-62	Mr President, I would like to The evaluation of Volvo Cars gave a good lesson. It was also money that came from European funds and so on. As Désirée Pethrus says, it was a bad result, but you should have learned that from now – I really hope so. We don't hug all the labour market training – we don't. We have had periods with a lot of different experiments in worse economics and so on. We should not have it, but it should be directed towards the need that exists. Then you must not do as you unfortunately did when you locked into the system of rules and only looked at those who were far away. Then we got examples like this workshop guy Magnus. He said, "It's weird. I met a guy whose parents I know. He's taken a workshop training course and he's unemployed. I've called the Arbetsförmedlingen and said I want to hire this guy, but no, he won't come first, because he's been out of work for a short time. It's the other way around. Now, however, another instruction has been given so that you really start taking them right from day one, and that will of course help and replenish. Then there is the difficult problem that Mrs Pethrus points out, that is, those who have a low level of education, do not know the language and so on. It's a challenge, but this morning, before I got here, we had a seminar with Almega that also pointed to a lot of good examples of what's happening out there. I don't have time to answer all the questions now, but Désirée Pethrus knows what the government is doing and has done. It is about previous language learning, better mapping, fast track and opening up start-up support for those with low education, more opportunities to access extra services and so on. So there are a lot of things happening, and I think Mr Pethrus can admit that too.
i-Kr4kbcvoDZ6YUZHktFdqkh	Mr President, I would like to The Government's letter concerning the National Audit Office's report on regional adjustment of labour market training is being discussed. In its report, the Swedish National Audit Office points to a number of shortcomings and improvement potentials in the Swedish Public Employment Service's working methods with regard to labour market training. For example, the Swedish National Audit Office believes that the Swedish Public Employment Service's regulation letter for 2015 clearly states that the activities should be better adapted to the needs of both job seekers and employers. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that Arbetsförmedlingen's task of prioritising jobseekers who are far from the labour market may conflict with the labour market needs. The Employment Service itself also points out that this creates incentives to organise training courses that do not necessarily intend to meet a shortage of the labour market. The fact that job seekers have been assigned a place in training courses that one might assume they will not be able to cope with is also in direct conflict with the regulatory letter. The Swedish National Audit Office makes a number of recommendations to the Swedish Public Employment Service, which I do not intend to list here, but they are set out in the R.I.C.'s report, in the Government's letter and in the report. Mr President, I would like to From the Government's letter, we note that the Government mainly shares the Swedish National Audit Office's assessments. That's a good thing. The government also writes that in order to achieve the goal of reducing unemployment and increasing employment, it is important to invest in education and training that leads to work. Of course, it is a matter of course – good there! Mr President, I would like to The Government also writes about the importance of the efforts made within the framework of labour market policy being accurate and cost-effective. That should also be self-evident. Thus, according to the Government, it is important that labour market training is directed to those who are deemed to benefit most from the effort – again of course. I note that the Government has taken on board the Swedish National Audit Office's assessments and that the Government broadly agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. In my view, the Government's letter is therefore relatively balanced on the basis of the National Audit Office's report, which is why, later today, we will also vote in favour of the committee's proposal in the report. On the other hand, Mr President, we Swedish democrats largely do not share the government's views on how the Swedish Public Employment Service should be organised and working. The Public Employment Service today has too broad a mission with, according to them, too many and difficult to understand tools in the toolbox. The mandate of the Employment Service must be simplified, refined and clarified. After this report was revised in committee, a group that has worked with the Swedish Democrats' labour market policy has received our proposals for a renewed and modern employment service in our budget motion, which will be presented next week. I'm very happy about that. This also means that perhaps at this point we would have had a specific opinion, which we do not now have because it was not clear at that time. Our renewed policy for an improved and modern employment service for modern conditions will therefore be presented next week.
i-669ef95baabface2-78	Mr President, I would like to Labour market training is a good labour market policy programme for getting job seekers into the labour market. It is therefore important that training is adapted primarily to regional needs. An important reason for regionally adapted work is that the regions have better transparency and knowledge of education and jobs within their own region. It is important that Arbetsförmedlingen can find a good balance in the balance between national, regional and local procurement. Mr President, I would like to Adapting labour market training to the region can also be a way of harnessing the skills and competences of individuals. Taking advantage of individuals' knowledge and skills is of great importance, not least because it becomes a social investment. It promotes local business, the labour market and integration. It also promotes individuals with foreign background who can get closer to a job in Sweden that corresponds to their professional skills. Mr President, I would like to Priority should also be given to training in shortage professions in their own region. The idea of targeted support for employment in advance is good, and the Public Employment Service has worked in this way in some projects, in order to be able to easily cover the labour shortage in the region, especially in smaller municipalities, and because it is a good way for young people and newcomers to get a permanent start on the labour market. Municipalities that are particularly affected by population decline would see this as a good opportunity to rebuild their municipality. Mr President, I would like to Another important player in the labour market is employers. Adaptation to the needs of the employer should continue to be sought. After all, it is the employers who will employ the jobseeker after completing labour market training. Mr President, I would like to The Green Party calls for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion to be rejected.
i-669ef95baabface2-83	Mr President, I would like to The Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of how the Swedish Public Employment Service has adapted its labour market training to regional and local demand for labour. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the current way of working involves a risk that employers' recruitment needs do not meet satisfactorily. This is a review of several that form the basis for new positions for the Center Party. The impact of labour market training has varied over time. From having had measurable positive effects in the 80's, efficiency declined during the 90's. At the beginning of the 21st century, positive effects were again measured, in particular for certain vocational training programmes, programmes aimed at slightly older people and those with lower levels of education. In recent years efficiency has fallen again and is now generally low. Potential explanations include an increase in volumes, a deterioration in the labour market situation and a change in the composition of participants. The groups most likely to benefit from the programme are the elderly, those with a shorter educational background and those born out-of-the-north. People with disabilities have also proved to benefit more from labour market training in periods than others. The Center Party wants to reduce the scope of the two major labour market policy programmes that give entitlement to activity support in two ways. Firstly, the possibility for job seekers to learn at work needs to be improved. This is done, among other things, by extending apprenticeships to more people and more types of companies. Secondly, training places within the regular education system should be increased. In particular, university of applied sciences and vocational adult education programmes are programmes which should partially replace labour market training. The value of being able to change and retrain quickly, compared to going through longer and more extensive training measures, can be assumed to be greater for older people. This applies because training leads to lock-in and loss of production in the short term but increases productivity and income in the longer term. Younger people should therefore be given greater opportunities for training activities within the regular education system. People close to the labour market are also often in less need of training measures. For these people, an active job search is generally more prioritised. For older people who are deemed to be further away from the labour market, where there are demonstrably positive effects, labour market training should be used. A well-functioning labour market policy helps to make it easier for job seekers to get to work and to reduce possible bottlenecks in the labour market. This can be done in a number of ways, including by helping the unemployed to find a job, increasing the employability of job seekers through training and supporting companies that employ people who are far from the labour market. In addition to this change in labour market training, the Center Party also wants to change the structure and functioning of the Employment Service, like many other countries. The most famous example is Australia. It places jobseekers in different categories, depending on how far away they are deemed to be from the labour market. Independent intermediaries are then compensated, based on this categorisation, which is largely performance-based. Job seekers can choose between different regional intermediaries. Mediation actors are continuously evaluated and awarded grades that facilitate future procurements and contribute to increased information about the efficiency of different actors. Australia's system has been an important contributor to more than halving unemployment and reducing the cost of employment services. Similar opportunities to choose employment services have been introduced in Nacka municipality and in the framework of the TSL and TRR security organisations. The Center Party, inspired by Australia among others, wants to introduce a job fixarpeng. It is a money which follows the job seeker to the agency he/she finds best suited to help the job seeker to find lasting employment. The operator can be non-profit-making, private or municipal. Swedish labour market policy makes great use of resources. However, efficiency is rarely satisfactory. The Center Party wants to see fewer, simpler and more effective labour market policy measures. The resources saved by such reforms should instead be used to finance job-creating reforms. Mr President, I would like to We do not have a motion in this report, but we will come back in our budget motion next week with proposals in accordance with my speech.
i-669ef95baabface2-97	Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations. This is really an uncontroversial report – or at least it should be. From one aspect of many possible labour market trainings, the Swedish National Audit Office has examined them. The Swedish National Audit Office has made observations that have mainly been taken into account by the Government, and a change work has already been carried out in this area. What is important is that there is a continuous follow-up of such comprehensive measures so that labour market policies can be more effective and contribute positively to equipping more unemployed people for a changing labour market. It is nevertheless generous of the right-wing parties, especially the Moderates, to take the opportunity to raise some things to debate in the way they do today. It offers another opportunity to highlight the flagrant failure over eight long years that, with the ideological one-eyedness of the right and irresponsible experiment, affected labour market policies and the Public Employment Service. Mr President, I would like to It was with great enthusiasm that after the election victory in 2006, the government of Reinfeldt set out hard to make Arbetsförmedlingen an agency for procurement, control and punishment, rather than an authority focused on interaction with the local labour market and animated by helping the unemployed to get on their feet. That's what sets its mark. As you know, the current government set out the direction of labour market policy immediately after the elections. Despite the chaos created by the Swedish Democrats and the previous government parties together in connection with the first budget decision, politics has been able to operate in many respects. Of course, such things take time to change. In the present case, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that steps were taken in a different direction, i.e. towards greater scope to take account of actual needs in the labour market, already in the regulation letter for 2015, i.e. the first that the current government has put together. A large part of the problem of general education that has produced poor results is that the Public Employment Service would previously work so unilaterally with people who are very far from the labour market. This led to, which also Raimo Pärssinen was into, the count-stick thinking. There, too, a certain adjustment has been made, but it is not an area where you can imagine a quick fix. The desperate moves of our liberal comrades in the days to close the Employment Service altogether and to start a new authority that will do the same, although without overall responsibility can serve as a good illustration of how not to relate to labour market policy. None of what I am saying now means that labour market policy is flawless – far from it. My assessment is that it is possible to do much more when it comes to procurement and training, especially if one takes more steps away from the compulsion to post things to external and private actors – which was the previous government's standing order to the agency. It will simply be easier to carry out good procurements if you can concentrate more on what really needs to be procured, thus doing some more on your own. But it's probably the subject of a discussion on another occasion. I also believe that it is possible to improve the follow-up to what has been procured. As far as I can understand, that work is already under way at Arbetsförmedlingen. Mr President, I would like to There is a situation today where unemployment has fallen substantially in virtually all sub-groups of the labour market. Unemployment is still too high, and the challenges are great. But there has been a clear and encouraging tendency. The employment rate has increased. These are the highest in the EU. The overall development calls the Moderates in their motion that, Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. It's good to know. It surely puts the sweeping proposals from the Moderates to remove resources from labour market training in a perspective. I also note that it is being brought to the fore from the bourgeois side that it should be invested in the regular education system. That's interesting. The current draft budget makes extensive efforts on the very regular education system, while, for example, the guarantees are being changed financially in order to further identify education as a path for people who are outside the labour market. Yes, there are major challenges for the Swedish labour market now and in time. We need faster ways to get the right job for many new arrivals. There is a need for training and measures that strengthen rather than push down those people who have long been outside the labour market. Proper efforts are needed to ensure that more young people complete their upper secondary education, not to mention the long-term need for a modern industrial policy and to organise a segregated and fragmented school system. What has perhaps emerged from this discussion is that, unfortunately, the right-wing opposition is not well suited to participate seriously in a debate on these challenges. At least that's what I'm bringing after today's exercises.
i-669ef95baabface2-109	Mr President, I would like to We, the Liberals, have not made follow-up motions on this matter. We have been involved in our own process of renewal on labour market policy issues. However, we have a special opinion with the Center Party, on p. 14 of the report. I have listened to the debate, Mr President. I find it boring when there are so many people in Sweden who are far away from the labour market, so many people in Sweden who are unemployed, who have it bumped financially, who feel that it would be good if politics was a little involved in setting out a direction. Such debates end in a completely destructive and boring trench war. When I listen to our committee chairman here, I think that even the moon landing would be a consequence of a decision at the S-Congress. It is an incredibly blunt approach to these issues. We must understand that what is crucial in this is not just a focus on internal government structures and other things. What is important is that people in Sweden get jobs. It is clear that if you then focus on the people who have the easiest to get a job, you can then refer to the statistics being very good. If you invest and clearly focus on those who are furthest from the labour market, you will not be able to show that as many people get jobs right away, as these are far more complex situations. It's about people standing further away. It is about much greater efforts for each individual. You have to be able to admit that even without standing here beating your chest and saying that we are much better than you are. Yes, but if you have completely different focus in your efforts, it is clear that the results will also be different. We in the Liberals have now clearly stated that we believe that confidence in the employment services of employers, job seekers and the general public is so low that a much larger reform agenda is required than we now see from the current government. We therefore believe that the Public Employment Service should be closed down in its current form. We should create a new authority that focuses mainly on those who are furthest away from the labour market. The people who are away for a few months – engineers, nurses or others – today manage to get a job without the Employment Service. The vast majority of companies that need new employees, new staff, do not go to Arbetsförmedlingen. Our labour market today does not look like it did 30 years ago, no matter how much the Social Democrats hope for, believe and want this. Our labour market today looks different. There are recruitment agencies, private agency agencies and many others that are far more effective than the Public Employment Service in matching jobs for those who are closer to the labour market. This is a brief explanation for that. Then it is also the case that Sweden today is the country in the European Union that has the least proportion of so-called simple jobs. We are also the country in the European Union that has the highest entry-level salaries. At the same time, we have had a very large immigration to Sweden. We must understand that if we want to give a future to all the people who have fled from war Syria, from the dictatorship in Eritrea, from the collapse in Afghanistan and so on and come to our country, if we want to give them fair chance in our labour market, then we must also lower the thresholds into the labour market. This means that we need to be able to formulate a policy of lower entry wages and more jobs with lower qualification requirements in order for people to be able to enter quickly. On the Liberal side, we also have a series of proposals relating to this but in a broader discussion on labour market policy.
i-669ef95baabface2-115	Mr President, I would like to Well, we'll have to wish the Liberals good luck on their renewal journey. The proposals that are coming now seem to be very new, but they point in a certain direction. I note two things in Fredrik Malm's speech. One is rhetoric. He's accusing me of having some rhetoric. Of course, he has his own. The second is that he wants to shut down Arbetsförmedlingen. Here we have a review of how labour market training works. Now he has come to the answer: He wants to close the Employment Service, and then he wants lower entry wages. At the same time, you have pressed from the bourgeois edge for us to have a great review of the Employment Service. It's covered. Now that investigation is under way. But then the Liberals won't be able to wait. Maybe you're done with your renewal journey already. You say, "No, we're not waiting for an investigation, we're shutting down the Arbetsförmedlingen and starting a new agency." I don't really understand the logic of that, Fredrik Malm. Why not be involved in the best way in the review of the Employment Service that the government has appointed? You should review the mission that the authority has and so on. It's wide. Why just go on fast? Ali Esbati said something about it being a desperate act, and it seems to be a bit of a desperate act. Just because Arbetsförmedlingen has ended up in this situation cannot be said to be the fault of Arbetsförmedlingen. It has, of course, been governed politically, and you did so for eight years, Fredrik Malm. But now you have found a new solution: Let's shut it down. Then we will make a solution. Then we'll lower entry wages. Then it will be a job in Sweden. ..................................................... Fredrik Malm has previously said that unless the social partners assume their responsibilities, we will lower salaries here in Parliament. I'd like to ask, when haven't they?
i-669ef95baabface2-122	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have an increasingly two-tier labour market and an increasingly clear division of the group that does not have jobs. We have a large group of people who quickly get a new job, which may be gone a few months. It is young people with education who become unemployed and then quite quickly get back into the labour market. That has always been the case, and it will probably always be the case. It is important that there are people that companies can employ quickly. Then there is a larger group of people who are further away from the labour market, who have been away for a long time. Many of them are also new arrivals; it is young people without educational qualifications or without a degree who may never enter the labour market. This means that the longer this division continues and the longer the time goes without proper integration in Sweden, the larger the group of people who are increasingly away from the labour market. What we in the Liberals think is that one must focus particularly on this group. You have to do it more. We believe that the Arbetsförmedlingen or the authority that comes in its place must have a mission that corresponds to the labour market and the situation of the unemployed in Sweden. We're saying it doesn't have it today. Furthermore, we cannot ignore the problem of trust. If very many employers in Sweden, up to 90 per cent – or 70 or 80, somewhere there – feel that they do not want to go to Arbetsförmedlingen when they need to announce services because they do not get the skills that their companies need, if very many jobseekers feel that they do not get a job through Arbetsförmedlingen and wonder why they should participate in its programme and if the public feels that this authority does not deliver, then we mean that you have to do something from a political point of view.
i-669ef95baabface2-128	Mr President, I would like to Then you have to do something yourself, and then, of course, you have to be sharper at the match so that you can meet the employers. In deep discussion, you should agree on what the needs are and how you can meet them. You have to work on the question, Fredrik Malm! You can't just go outside and say, "Let's shut down, and we'll start something new." Oh, my God! It's not working. Where do the Liberals want to go when it comes to building society? You say that we have to change our labour market, and then we will go back to an old labour market where low productivity was matched by low wages. There's more people getting jobs then. That's the old truth. But Sweden has not v u x in t and gained its prosperity by having low-skilled jobs in numbers. On the contrary, we have built up that we have more qualified jobs, higher technology, higher knowledge, higher added value and higher export value so that we can raise money and build society. That's where we're going. We're not going to go for shoe polishers and other things. And what does Fredrik Malm mean by simple jobs? What is it? Where does that definition come from? And how do you build it? That's walking backwards. We are going to be competitive in this country, and for that we need a boost in knowledge. Of course, the important thing for reducing the division is to ensure that all people get better opportunities and better knowledge. It will require considerable resources that in turn require more people to participate and contribute in different ways – not tax cuts or wage cuts and not to close the Employment Service!
i-669ef95baabface2-132	Mr President, I would like to I have about the same definition of simple jobs as the Prime Minister had in his speech last summer, and he also belongs to Raimo Pärssinen's party. He then commissioned Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg to bring together trade unions and employers to find a solution for more simple jobs. I would have thought it would have been good if it worked – then we would not have had to bring it up in Parliament's pulpit. But it was just that the union said no. LO refused. What social responsibility is that? What is said to those people who are currently in the employment service's establishment but who have a low level of education and who want to enter the labour market quickly? What is said to the large group of unemployed, many of the newly arrived and long-term unemployed? Among those who are currently enrolled in the Employment Service, 40% are born outside Europe. What is said to the 150 000 people who are currently in the reception system of the Migration Agency? Many of them will then be granted a residence permit. Many of them come from war zones – from Syria, Afghanistan, Eritrea. These are people who are unlikely to have been able to obtain an engineering degree, a nursing degree or a legal degree as a result of dictatorship, war and disintegration, as a result of institutions that do not deliver. What do the Social Democrats say to them? Well, they say, "We're not going to change anything." Mr President, I would like to To be honest, I do not think that we will be able to do this in Sweden if we are not able to lower the thresholds into the labour market. We will be permanent alienation. We will push new generations of newcomers and young people without upper secondary education out into the periphery, further and further away, into a larger and larger new poverty. And then we will have this debate, and the figures and curves will continue to point only downwards. Then Raimo Pärssinen will continue to stand here and say: We shall do nothing. But I do not think that is the solution for Sweden. We are faced with significant problems that we must be able to deal with.
i-669ef95baabface2-138	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation on the matter to be approved. As you ask, you usually get answers. This question came up in the middle of the hottest moment of the refugee stream that was last autumn. Then the free schools were asked if they would accept 5 percent of the unaccompanied ones and allow them to take the lead in the queue. At the same time, the racist stamp was in the highest order, in the expectation that they would say no – then you would clap with it. But the free schools got the safety valve. They could agree to this voluntarily. In a free school with a long queue and a good reputation, which they have probably worked up for many years, I think most principals realize that it is committing suicide. Letting someone else take the lead in the queue in Sweden is not something that is Swedish. If it is something that we are good at in Sweden it is to stand and queue. The free schools usually live on having a good reputation. Aftsailing people who have been in line for a long time will not be well received by parents and students. If there is one thing that Mr Svensson still has, it is a good legal patho, Mr President. The fact that the government is pushing this issue is not surprising, given that they actually want the free schools out, even if they do not say so openly. But the Alliance's support for this surprises me greatly. I'm not really getting politics together. When the Moderates were in favour of this, they had not yet put their foot down on this issue. Now they have changed their feet and turned their coats after the wind, Mr President, and what the Swedish Democrats stood here saying a few months or years ago is suddenly moderate politics. Mr President, I would like to Eighty percent of the unaccompanied people who came to Norway lied about their age. After a determination of age here in Sweden, there may be no need to fell something that the free schools have struggled to build up for decades. For example, if we, like the Swedish Tax Agency, make a fictional assessment of those who have come over the last five years and really age-set them, I am sure, Mr President, that the problem would be much smaller than today. Then there's the yummy little thing that the free schools would do this voluntarily. But when you talk to the free schools, the trend does not seem to be so strong that they jump on that train, especially the serious free schools, which are established and have queues for many years. However, Mr President, a report on this in the run-up to the 2018 elections might be nice to see. Perhaps it turns out that the Swedish Democrats were again right on this issue. I suspect that there are not many free schools that will jump on this train, especially the serious ones. The free schools, on the other hand, which have empty seats today, may see their chance of increasing the number of pupils. But it's free schools with no queue. Free schools with queues, on the other hand, are usually well established, and many times, Mr President, they have been hit hard, especially in red municipalities, where they have tried to penetrate more or less. They are now all of a sudden going to point out who is going to stand aside. This is not a good thing. But, Mr President, I shall not be worried, because Gustav Fridolin has said here in the speaker's chair and on television that there is no danger and that absolutely no students should have to stand back. Then it's a little weird. If there is 5% overcapacity in the free schools today, why have the free schools with queues of up to 100,000 pupils not obsessed with those places? Another interesting fact – I hope most parties take this on board today – is that many free schools are established in the so-called alienation areas. This means that the second generation of immigrants, who have been in line for a long time, Mr President, are now being squeezed out by new arrivals of unaccompanied minors. Talk about putting people against people! I see this clearly, for example, in queues in Skärholmen, Flemingsberg and Kista. It is precisely the unaccompanied minors who push out the other children, and those children do not have Swedish background, as they say, but it is often second generation immigrants. I don't think that's the common image of free schools, but that's what the free school world looks like today. Unfortunately, Mr President, these are unaccompanied minors whom we do not even know how old they are. I get a little too close to my forehead sometimes and hope that this reign will pass as soon as possible so that we can once again get control of Mother Svea. Then I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to thank everyone who has congratulated me on my birthday today.
i-669ef95baabface2-153	Mr President, I would like to The committee had expected Håkan Bergman to be here. But unfortunately, he's stomach sick and can't participate, so now I'm gonna have to try to shoulder his cape. This is an important proposal. We need good schools for all our newly arrived students. This is a prerequisite for better integration in Sweden. It is not good when all newcomers end up in the same school, but we need a diversity, and it is necessary that all schools help and take care of and provide education to newcomers. The background to the proposal is familiar to us in the committee. We had a lot of pressure on Sweden last autumn, when so many people fled for their lives, from wars and disasters, to seek another country and a better life. We want to be a humane country. We want to be a country of solidarity that stands up for our fellow human beings in need. But it puts a pressure on Swedish school to take care of so many newly arrived children, who need education. The National Associations of Free Schools themselves came up with a statement that they wanted to help. They wanted to be part of the integration work. We also know that SKL submitted a letter stating that measures were needed to ensure that we take good care of all newly arrived children. That is the background to the fact that we had an agreement between the government and the four alliance parties on how we could make the situation better for all children and young people who came to Sweden. I am pleased that we have such a great political consensus in our committee. All parties except one, namely the Swedish Democrats, are behind this bill. I am not really surprised, because the question of the parade that you Swedish democrats are pushing and souling is to reduce and stop immigration. Now you also want to make it difficult for newly arrived children to go to school. You want to make integration more difficult. Then the National Association of Free Schools wants to help in this matter, and all schools in Sweden want to help. But the actions of the Swedish democrats are only concrete proof of the policy that drives SD. It is an important principle that we have an open school for everyone, regardless of the school form and regardless of the principal, everyone should have the opportunity to go to a school that is open to everyone. Nor should we violate the legislation on discrimination. It is important that Sweden is a humane country, a country that jointly and severally takes care of and meets the needs of all people. We need to help all newly arrived children to get a good school education. This is one way of strengthening integration. We all know that it is not good if similar children, students, end up in the same school. We need diversity. Therefore, it is important that schools have student groups that involve different children meeting. We have had a problem when it comes to independent principals. It is about preschool class, primary school and primary school in this bill. Some independent schools have queue systems, and we know that in some schools you need to put the children in line very early to be able to get in there. But now independent schools also want to help. Then we must make sure that there is a change in the school law to enable everyone to help. The proposal we are discussing today is about being able to make changes in the school law, so that it is also possible for independent schools to help in the integration work. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats would have liked us to have gone a little further. We are now discussing a proposal aimed, above all, at independent schools. But we also have municipal schools that want to help, and we have the same problem there. We know from the media that newly arrived students can end up in a single school. There will then be a lot of new arrivals in a school. Even in research it is said that it is not good if we do not get a mixture and a diversity. It should therefore also be possible for municipal authorities to accept new arrivals and distribute them to the municipality. We have an important principle that we should be careful about, and that is the principle of proximity. But it is clear that this is not an easy issue to solve. I think we need to move on with this discussion. We have not yet got there in our deliberations. But I think it's important that we get the principle that municipalities should also be able to receive newly arrived students and distribute them among the municipality's schools. I hope that we will have a continued dialogue on this and that we will find a solution. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-669ef95baabface2-168	Mr President, I would like to The basis for a good start in life is a good education. Perhaps the single most important prerequisite in life is what parents you have. But we have a very small opportunity to influence this, both from a political perspective and from a personal perspective. It is with education that we can actually make sure that we lay the foundations for everyone, no matter where you come from and no matter what parents you have, to be able to stand on their own feet and shape their own lives. This, Mr President, is equally true whether you come from Sweden, Switzerland or Syria. Mr President, I would like to Recently, for various reasons, an enormous number of people have been forced to seek refuge in Sweden, fleeing persecution, war and destruction. That Sweden is a country that people choose to flee to and not from, that this is where people see that they can have the opportunity to realize their dreams and build a safe life, is something that we should basically be proud of. As a result of the fact that so many people have recently been forced to come to Sweden for various reasons, the pressure on the public has also increased, when we want to give all these people, with a life of concern, a chance to quickly get into a reasonably normal everyday environment. In this context, school is no exception. Recently, many municipalities have had to be extremely creative and make a great effort to deliver as good a schooling as possible as soon as possible to as many people as possible. Let us also note in this House, because we often debate and criticise the number of municipalities attending school, that many municipalities have managed incredibly well to do this rather burdensome work over time. However, the report we are debating in this House today is about enabling more schools to contribute to the work of receiving newly arrived students. For a long time, Sweden's free schools have been severely limited in their opportunities to participate and contribute to receiving new arrivals and offering them schooling. At the same time, Sweden's free schools have received an enormous amount of criticism for this very thing, although in reality they have had no opportunity to influence themselves. Mr President, I would like to Today's proposal makes it possible for free schools to participate more in this work. Today's proposal dictates no conditions and makes no demands on free schools. It does not guide them in how they must act but, in accordance with their own wishes, creates an opportunity for them to receive students when they find it appropriate, when they find that they have the opportunity to do so and when they find that they have the capacity to contribute. It is the free schools themselves who are allowed to make this assessment. I believe, unlike some others who have been up in this pulpit, that they are also perfectly capable of making these decisions on their own. I certainly understand those who express concern and who feel stressed over their queue. But I do not think that in reality that will be a major problem. We are talking about a very small quota, and we are talking about a fictitious restriction whereby the school, based on its maximum number of pupils, is given the opportunity to receive students during the year in accordance with its own assessment. As I said, this enables free schools to participate in this work. What is perhaps even more important, however, is that it makes it much more possible for municipalities to actually plan how to better manage the reception of newly arrived pupils, as they are no longer limited to cooperating within the framework of the municipal school, but can actually cooperate with the free schools locally as well. In this way, there need be no conflict between them. Mr President, I would like to However, the challenges of solving the schooling of the many newcomers are much greater than is apparent from this report. Significantly more needs to be done to meet the many challenges that we are facing in order to ensure that everyone gets a good education and to ensure that the gaps that we actually see emerge in terms of learning outcomes and school outcomes are overcome. Giving more students the opportunity to go to different schools is good. However, we know today that a considerably greater limitation is in reality that, for example, school choices are not used in certain areas and among some parents. In retrospect, it is perceived as falling behind. Active school elections could be a way for municipalities to work better to break segregation and ensure that all pupils have a chance to choose a school. However, whether you get to choose a school or not, more schools need to be better schools. Today, the resources of the Swedish school system are poorly allocated. We do not have the best teachers in schools where the challenges are greatest. Therefore, we would have to direct the first teacher reform considerably more towards those areas where the challenges are greatest. The most important thing of all, Mr President, and what would make the most difference in order to strengthen the focus of knowledge in school and to ensure that everyone – newly arrived or not – gets the chance to go to a good school, is to introduce a real zero tolerance to bad schools. It is not reasonable for us to have schools which, year after year, perform poorly and fail their mission to deliver an education to the student and yet continue to run their school. Schools that fail should primarily receive support and help to deliver better, but schools that are still unable to reverse development should not actually be allowed to remain. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion: I am in favour of the committee's proposal in the report, but, in accordance with Thomas Strand's comments earlier, I am making a strong contribution to the government that much more needs to be done.
i-669ef95baabface2-182	Mr President, I would like to To give all students a good start in life is to offer them a good and well-functioning school. Without it, the chances of success are quite small. The government has therefore invested heavily in the school for increased quality, including through more educators in the classes. The government is also investing in making the teaching profession more attractive for more people to choose to become teachers and not least to try to get back those who have left the teaching profession and who are so much needed in our schools. The proposal which forms the basis of this report aims to give free schools more opportunity to receive pupils who have lived in Sweden for less than two years, that is to say, so little time that they have not had the opportunity to line up. The proposal is welcomed by the National Association of Free Schools, the National Association of Idea-borne Schools and the School of Knowledge. The National Associations of Free Schools have long asked for a change of legislation in order for more schools to be able to participate and take part in the responsibility. Mr President, I would like to With the legislation in place today, it is very difficult for free schools with queue and registration time as a selection basis to receive students who have recently arrived in Sweden. This law will give free schools the opportunity to do so. Free schools that do not have a queue can already make room for the students who have come here today, and they do so to a large extent. But we know that many independent schools with queues want to share responsibility and give more students who have come to Sweden the opportunity to go to these schools. It is an important step forward that more schools receive more students. It increases the possibility of equal access to education for these pupils as well. In the worst refugee disaster since the Second World War, we must ensure that all schools that want are also able to help. The proposal suggests that a head of an independent preschool, primary school or primary school that uses the application period as a selection basis should be able to receive a special quota of pupils given priority over the other applicants. It is about making the best use of all the resources of the school system. This quota should relate to pupils who have lived in Sweden less than two years before the start of the relevant academic year and who have therefore not had the opportunity to get in line. The study on education for newcomers proposed a quota which should be 5% of the total number of pupils, which is also the intention of the report. Municipal schools already have the responsibility to accept new arrivals, and it is amazing that so many independent schools now want – and have the opportunity to – to share that responsibility. However, more may need to be done in more schools. Many municipalities are already working to ensure that more schools can participate and share responsibility. The municipalities are obliged to receive new arrivals for residence, as directed, and this is one way of improving the establishment of new arrivals in the labour market and in society. There is reason for municipalities to learn from each other and take advantage of the good examples that exist around the country. In order to facilitate this, the government is continuing to comply with the remaining parts of the Migration Agreement, for example in terms of municipalities being able to place pupils in schools other than the neighbouring ones. The aim is to make better use of the overall resources of the school system and thereby ultimately promote the ability of the principals to achieve the goals set by the school law. With this, I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-669ef95baabface2-189	Mr President, I would like to The decision we are about to make today is an important decision, and that is the right decision. The unity of most parties on this issue shows well that it is good that we now have another tool in the work for good integration. We had a visit from investigator Ebba Östlin on the committee. Elisabet Knutsson gave a good overview of the matter itself, so I will skip that part of my speech. You had a short time, and it is incredibly important to follow up with further suggestions and make sure to really get as fast-footed as you need to be to meet all the different challenges in this. It is a bit of a pity that this decision could not be made by the beginning of the autumn term, but it will now come into force on 1 November. I must say that it has been extremely exciting to see the great commitment shown by Sweden's municipalities and county councils, the National Association of Free Schools and many other actors in the school field. They have said: This is a challenge we want to take on. We want to take part in this challenge. We want to solve this and create a good school for all children – even those who have been in our country for a very short time. It is relatively rare that we need to discuss age determination of children in comprehensive school, Stefan Jakobsson. It should be said that this applies to children who come and are eight, nine or ten years old. The opportunity for them to receive quickly in different schools is a very important part of solving integration in a good way. I think there are many of us who have been out meeting principals, teachers and students – both those who have lived in Sweden for a long time and those who are newly arrived – and seen the challenges that exist. It's not easy to do this now, but it's right. It is about giving the opportunity to so many more people to achieve the goals we know they need to achieve in order to succeed in many different ways. Therefore, it is important that they quickly get into the Swedish school and quickly get the opportunity to develop the language and all the other parts that are important. I myself have some personal experience linked to a family who came here from Syria a year ago. It is clear that schooling was extremely important, and it has been solved in a fantastically good way. They've come in fast. But then it's also about how you get into the different parts of society. Speaking of that we are so good at standing in line, it is not so fun for those who are new arrivals to stand in line for the handball team either. In many different ways the association life in Sweden really struggles to be part of the integration. Nevertheless, I would like to dwell on what Stefan Jakobsson started the debate with. He said that you would have stood with some racist stamp in the highest order if the free schools did not want to accept new arrivals. I have a completely different picture of reality. It was because a lot of free schools said: We see that diversity is a sign that we can improve quality. We want in. We can see that we are helping integration, but we also see it as part of the professional development at our school that we are able to handle these challenges well. It will be so flat in the debate if it is just a matter of making room. We also need to see the challenge that schools have, linked to their developing ways of working – that they become good at working with language development. It benefits all children that schools take on this challenge in different ways and thus get better. There are many municipalities that have worked with this for a long time. This is not because of the situation in autumn 2015, but because it has had a large reception for many years. I would like to mention Falköping as a municipality where many schools take on the challenge. This applies not least to rural schools, which may have places over and which also see it as both an opportunity to make room and an opportunity to work well with integration. Erik Bengtzboe spoke earlier in the debate about active school elections and freedom of choice as important parts. Of course, much more is needed than this if we are to take more steps in the right direction. When you – as the Swedish Democrats – basically call schools that receive new arrivals rogue, it actually hurts me very much. I have seen the great commitment that exists from the free schools in this work, and I think that should be lifted up, affirmed and provide good conditions. So, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal. I look forward to the changes bringing together the common resources even better for all children's schooling.
i-669ef95baabface2-202	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin my speech by commenting on the knowledgeless statement by Stefan Jakobsson, who does not even know who this concerns. It would also be good if Stefan could supplement his statement with a source. However, I have found this source myself after Googled in the last few minutes. It is the far right newspaper Fria Tider who has decided that 80 percent of the newly arrived young people in Norway have lied about their age. Free Times is considered by the National Media Council to be a radical right-wing populist newspaper with racist and Islamophobic content. If that is what a Member of Parliament should use as a source, it is probably best to resign. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has for a long time criticised the imbalance in the independent schools. Time and again, figures have been presented that clearly show that the municipal schools have taken greater responsibility and that the independent schools have taken very little responsibility for the new arrivals. At the same time, we are pleased that more and more independent schools have been in favour of changing legislation in order to allow for a better distribution of newly arrived pupils. Although we are positive, however, I would like to criticise the free schools a little. It is not only the queue rules that have been the reason why you have not received new arrivals. For me as a left-wing party, it is also connected with the fact that you have not been able to make huge profits on the newly arrived students. With this, I would also like to say that this criticism concerns only the profit-making free schools, not the free schools run as foundations, cooperatives or in other non-profit-making forms. We do not believe that this will solve all the problems – unfortunately it will be voluntary – but it is a step in the right direction. The refugees haven't stopped running. The fact that Sweden and the EU have signed a disgusting agreement with the State of Turkey does not mean that we will not face any more challenges. More people will go to Sweden to get a sanctuary. Thomas Strand said it very well: It is not good that all newly arrived students end up in the same schools. I agree with that, but you could turn it around – as an add-on – and say that it is also not good that all blonde children from a particular social class go to the same schools. Mr President, I would like to In the committee's considerations and in the provisions contained in the document it is stated that the selection criteria that have existed for schools with queues are the date of registration, sibling priority, geographical proximity, priority for pupils in pre-school classes belonging to the school unit and a couple of other organisational selection criteria. This means that there has been an opportunity for some schools to receive pupils, for example in terms of geographical proximity. The Left Party is looking forward to seeing how this report falls into practice. We would also like to take this opportunity to say that it is interesting to see a large majority of parliamentary parties questioning the free choice of schools, which means this. Perhaps that means that the free choice of school has not worked fully, because we have had such a disparate distribution. This may mean that the queue system that exists for free schools or queuing systems at all, as they look, divides pupils in the wrong way. It may also mean that profits are not the best incentive to conduct school activities. Having said that, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-669ef95baabface2-212	Mr President, I would like to Much has already been said and meritoriously said from many quarters. The vast majority of us are, as I said, touchingly agreed. Many here refer to autumn and that so many people went to Sweden to get a sanctuary and a future. For a while the word system collapse was on virtually everyone's lips. We would see welfare broken; the safety nets and systems that we had so carefully built up for decades would all be destroyed. I think that we can see here today a shining example of how to do it when a system is faced with a test and when the limits are tested: you simply protect the individual before the system and find a solution. The fact that newly arrived students could not take place in the queue is not something that happened in autumn 2015 – it is important to remember – but it happened before. But it was only when we saw a system where the boundaries were tested that we noticed that it was a problem and did something about it. For us liberals, it is almost a spinal reflex to protect the individual's freedom of choice. Such a proposal can be seen from two perspectives. One is that the right is restricted for those students who have been in line for a long time but are now at risk of sliding backwards into the queue. The second perspective is that those who have not had the opportunity to get in line and choose now have the opportunity to do so. When it is the queue time that determines, it knocks out those who have not had the opportunity to line up at all. The proposal with a quota system now on the table is something we support. With a queue system based only on how long you have been in line, it is virtually impossible for the new arrivals to compete for a place. We think, as the report says, that more schools should be given the chance to receive more students. That is why we are pleased with this proposal. Why is this right? Because the free schools have actually been in touch and want to receive new arrivals, but they cannot because of the regulations. We know that school is the single most important protection factor – if you pass school, you also do much better in life. It is therefore also important that this is not an obligation for schools, but that the free schools themselves can piece together, reset and prepare. Many have already done so – many schools are in the starting pits and just want to start receiving students. In view of this, I would like to respond – as in the past – to the lie that was uttered here in the speaker's chair about the lonecomers in Norway who lie about their age. That it would be 80 percent who lie about their age is a tough myth that comes from 2008. It was then about cases where one suspected that the person was not as old as it said, but where one needed to test this. Of these, it was not 80 per cent but 38 per cent that the age was then recorded. For some reason, however, this myth continues to spread, and the fact that it is also happening here in Parliament makes me worried. To return to today's debate: The next step is to look at how we do in municipal schools. We look forward to the discussions. Several challenges lie ahead. How do we deal with the problems of small schools? How do we now ensure that those who come to Sweden get the opportunity to get information so that they can actually choose? There is a great deal of responsibility here for the municipalities, because if you have not received information you still cannot choose. It is always possible to find ways forward, it is always possible to try new ones and it is always possible to reconsider when we see that something is not working as intended. I am pleased that this is what we have done and that it is this decision that will be taken today. That is why, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal and reject the motion.
i-669ef95baabface2-223	Mr President, I would like to Last year, 163 000 people came to Sweden, people who fled from war, conflict, terror and oppression. 70 000 of these were children, a situation which in many ways is an asset to our country but which presents us with major challenges. A major challenge is that children should have access to schooling within a maximum of three months, and it is of great importance that children can quickly go to school together with Swedish comrades. This means that integration is speeded up and that you can conquer the Swedish language. When I'm out visiting schools, I'm impressed to see how quickly children of the younger ages just insulate a new language and context if they come to a school with a good reception, where they learn the language, socialize with children of their age who speak Swedish and where there is good native language support. The only problem is that the distribution of newly arrived students has not happened, or is happening, in a good way. Audits show that 4 percent of schools receive one third of pupils. At the same time, there are schools that do not have a single newly immigrated student. This is primarily related to housing segregation and where municipalities can assign housing to the newly arrived students, which reinforces an already problematic situation. A few of the 200 schools that receive many newly immigrated pupils are schools with an international profile or special municipal reception schools. But the vast majority are ordinary schools that lack a focus that could explain the great reception. Mr President, I would like to Several municipalities have started extensive work to increase the distribution between schools. In Örebro, for example, where the Christian Democrats are in charge, you have a model called Perrongen, which is described on SKL's website and which you would like to spread further. The Education Committee went all the way to Canada to look at the reception for new arrivals there, but the corresponding system I had to study in Helsingborg a few weeks ago. There they have set up a reception centre where they map knowledge, inform about the free choice of school, including the free schools available. All children get free school rides, and they are bused around to try out various leisure activities – all to increase integration. It makes you happy when you see such good examples, municipalities that have decided to find models for a good reception and to distribute new arrivals in more schools. These are the initiatives to be supported, disseminated and encouraged. I think controlling the distribution too much from the state is the wrong way to go. The initiatives are out there. Good examples shall be disseminated. Mr President, I would like to An active school choice is a way to go, i.e. that all students are faced with choosing a school after receiving good information in their own native language. Many times, however, they may need to be directed towards a school where there is special readiness to receive the children but with a good distribution for the eyes. Mr President, I would like to With this as a background, it is very good that free schools can now more easily receive newly arrived students. This is something that the free schools themselves have asked for but have not been able to do because it has been contrary to the legislation in force. It is a good step in the right direction, to get newly arrived schooling catered for in more schools. Setting up a quota in free schools for newcomers will be voluntary. It is only to be hoped that the municipalities that receive many new arrivals have a good reception system with active school elections where also the free schools are included. In doing so, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-BjLnjUA7ghRffzSCTALJdU	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal in paragraph 1 and for the Swedish Democrats' reservation in paragraph 2 of the report by the Committee on Taxation on the introduction of a Swedish tonnage tax system for shipping. Tonnage tax is a method of taxing shipping on the basis of the freight capacity of one's vessels rather than taxing profits generated in the business. Tonnage tax is used in many countries and is usually designed to mean lower taxation than in other cases. This means that shipping companies that have their ships flagged in countries that have not introduced tonnage tax usually lose competitiveness. There has therefore been great pressure from Swedish shipping to introduce a tonnage tax in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a long and traditional era as a maritime nation. The shipping industry today spans from small archipelago shipping companies with a few smaller passenger ships and small cargoes to international major shipping companies specialising in long-distance container traffic. However, a large part of the Swedish shipping industry's ships are not registered and thus taxable in Sweden. The so-called 'flagging-out', which involves registering a ship in a ship register in a country with low taxation of shipping, has been going on for a long time. The Swedish merchant fleet currently consists of 465 vessels with a gross tonnage of 300 or more, of which 190 are flagged in Sweden. So 275 such large ships, i.e. 60%, are outflanked to other countries. In addition, there are a large number of smaller ships. Common countries to flag ships to are, for example, our neighbours Denmark, Norway and Finland and also to the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the Faroe Islands and Bermuda. The effect of this is that Sweden loses tax revenue, jobs and important maritime knowledge. Mr President, I would like to Flagging is a worrying development that has been going on for a long time without political responsibility. The shipping industry has for a long time pointed out the importance of Sweden – this also applies to other EU countries with a significant shipping industry – introducing a tonnage tax system for Swedish shipping companies to operate under the Swedish flag. The Swedish Democrats have long pushed the issue of introducing a tonnage tax system in Sweden. It is therefore with great pleasure that I can now contribute to the Parliament's decision to introduce such a system. Together with the shipping industry's stakeholders, i.e. both the shipping companies and the Sjöfolksförbundet, we look forward to an increasing proportion of Swedish flagged ships in the Swedish merchant fleet. This will contribute to improved profitability for our shipping companies, increased employment in Sweden and better conditions for Swedish international shipping. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, the proposal for tonnage taxation contains components which unnecessarily exempt certain types of shipping from the new possibilities. It's not just important to get a team in place. It is at least as important that the laws we make are logical, relevant and proportionate in relation to the reality to be regulated. There are two issues that are particularly important to develop rapidly in order to broaden the possibilities of the Swedish tonnage tax system. We therefore propose that the Riksdag announce to the Government that it is necessary to come back with additional proposals in two areas as soon as practicable. Firstly, we believe that the delimitation whereby Swedish shipping in national traffic must not use tonnage taxation is a bad basis for favouring shipping, as several shipping companies carry out such activities in a sufficient proportion to not be able to take advantage of the advantages. Swedish shipping companies may therefore continue to be disadvantaged in the future. This has been highlighted by a number of heavy consultation bodies, such as maritime organisations and the Swedish Maritime Administration. It is, again, important that the legislation is in line with the reality to be regulated. It is surprising that the Green Party does not support this development in practice, but only in its rhetoric. Secondly, we believe that the shipping companies operating with relatively small ships, for example in the Swedish archipelago areas, should also be able to benefit from the advantages of tonnage taxation. This would benefit the development of our archipelagos by developing a more efficient and denser transport system. Several consultation bodies have therefore argued that the lower limit on gross tonnage of 100 to introduce tonnage taxation is too high. Most of the consultative bodies who point out this point are of the opinion that the limit should instead be a gross tonnage of 20. We believe that this is a reasonable assessment. Finally, Mr President, we look forward to a Swedish tonnage taxation system and a much more viable shipping industry in Sweden. We are also looking forward to the government and the other opposition assuming their responsibility for those shipping companies that will not be able to use the new system by agreeing to our proposal for a rapid completion of the new law on the two points I have explained. Everyone would benefit from that. It would also contribute to a more environmentally friendly transport sector by increasing coastal shipping.
i-669ef95baabface2-249	Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport is a highly international industry, and the opportunities for Swedish shipping companies to compete on the maritime market are essentially based on the equal conditions of competition for Swedish shipping companies. Sweden is the only country in the EU that has not introduced tonnage tax. The process of the tonnage tax has been long. For more than a decade the issue has been investigated and prepared, but now we are here. It is important that we can make a decision on a Swedish tonnage tax system with broad support in the Riksdag. In May, the government presented a bill. This was done despite the fact that negotiations with the European Commission were not quite completed. The need to move forward quickly on this issue was signalled, which I think was right. The Tax Committee started the proceedings. Unfortunately, the negotiations were delayed but completed during the summer, and immediately after the opening of the Riksdag two weeks ago, the Tax Committee continued with the preparation. We have forced the handling, but we have prepared the issue on the basis of the parliamentary order's demands for openness and transparency in the preparation. The new regulatory framework can enter into force at the turn of the year due to the forced management. The committee has done this because we think it is important that changes in the tax area are made quickly. Swedish shipping companies have not been able to compete on the same terms as foreign companies. The introduction of a tonnage tax corrects this. The Swedish shipping companies have flagged out for many years. This has not just meant the loss of jobs. We have also lost opportunities to drive international shipping. This applies not least to the environment. The tonnage tax reform now creates fairer opportunities for Sweden to compete in an international market. The growth of the shipping industry in the countries that introduced tonnage tax has been in the order of 50 to 70 percent. It must be regarded as a very good growth. Today there are about 350 Swedish-controlled vessels, of which the hundreds have a Swedish flag. It is not reasonable to believe that all Swedish-owned vessels will have a Swedish flag following the introduction of tonnage tax but considerably more than today. It should also be noted that there are currently about 60 ships on the yard's order lists. This is the highest level since the financial crisis and the recession of 2008-09. It is very pleasing, and we can hope that a large part of these newly built ships will be under the Swedish flag. Mr President, I would like to A major challenge is to get back the ships that have already left Sweden but were established under Swedish control. They are basically Swedish ships but currently have because of the tax regulations foreign flag. Several of the owners have expressly stated that they are happy to return home. This could be about 200 vessels and a few thousand jobs. Let me say that with the introduction of the tonnage tax, Swedish-controlled and Swedish-flagged tonnage will have good growth opportunities. The conditions will be considerably improved because the Swedish registers will in future contain considerably more ships than at present. Shipping is important, especially for an export-dependent country like Sweden. Swedish exports represent 54 per cent of gross domestic product. With approximately 90 per cent of Swedish foreign trade being transported by sea at some point in the transport chain, well-functioning shipping to and from Swedish ports is a crucial prerequisite for Swedish industry with production in Sweden and its ability to compete on the world market. The importance of maritime transport for Sweden's economic growth is also highlighted in the EU's Baltic Sea Strategy. Mr President, I would like to Land, sea and air transport are a prerequisite for the modern welfare society. Shipping goods by sea is both efficient and better for the environment than many other means of transport. Sweden, with its long coastline with large port capacity through more than 52 ports and with its excellent inland waterways, has great capacity to take additional freight volumes by ship. Mr President, I would like to The importance of a maritime and shipping industry is multifaceted. It provides export income. It gives influence over transport both within and from and to Sweden. It contributes to international shipbuilding development towards more environmentally friendly ships and transport systems. It can both relieve and provide alternatives to the hard-pressed roads and railways. It also meets the need arising from the mere fact that a large part of Swedish foreign trade is transported on the keel for geographical reasons. With Europe's longest coastline and good port depths, shipping is responsible for a large part of the flows in Swedish foreign trade. I support the proposal of the Committee on Taxation.
i-669ef95baabface2-263	Mr President, I would like to It is a long-awaited day for many in this House, but above all for those employees and employers in the maritime industry who have worked for a long time to bring about the change that we are now debating and are about to decide today, that is to say the introduction of tonnage taxation on ships. The tonnage tax system means that ships are taxed on a flat-rate basis based on cargo capacity, which is a much simpler system than conventional taxation. This, of course, affects the investment decisions of shipping companies and the flag of the ships. The fact that we have not had tonnage taxation has been bad for Swedish competitiveness. We have been aware of this for a long time. In 2004, the then Social Democratic government appointed the first study on tonnage taxation. By then, several EU countries had already had such a system for a number of years. The investigation was completed in 2006. Then followed eight years of bourgeois government ownership. It was governments that can hardly be accused of being uninterested in various tax changes, but unfortunately the interest in this particular one was cool. It is possible to compare the bourgeois government's attitude to maritime jobs with the attitude towards the whole of Swedish industry – that it was jobs that were basically Gone or old jobs that were not worth investing in. Instead, enterprise policy, and tax policy in particular, focused on subsidizing jobs in the service sector. It is not wrong in itself to focus on the services sector, except that it was relatively ineffective tools, but the basic industries in Sweden got far too little focus. In the meantime, more and more ships were being flagged out, with the negative consequences for employment and the economy. If this continues, we risk completely losing important maritime competence in Sweden. As early as 2007, an announcement was issued by the Riksdag on the initiative of a tonnage tax. But it was not until 2013 that Anders Borg felt obliged to set up a new investigation. Now we can finally make decisions. How this will affect the proportion of Swedish flagged ships in the fleet is of course difficult to make an exact forecast for. We are late on many other countries in introducing tonnage taxation, but we know that it affects competitiveness in a very positive direction. We also know that there is a great will among Swedish shipping companies to flag their ships. There is good cooperation between the social partners, as this whole process has shown. This emerged not least during the hearing held last week by the Committee on Taxation on the basis of the decision we are about to take today. That is why, Madam President, there is every reason to feel confident about the future of Swedish shipping. This will affect Swedish industry and business in general in a positive direction. Madam President, I therefore support the proposal contained in the report.
i-669ef95baabface2-273	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report and reject the motion. Sweden, as previous speakers have mentioned, has been a proud maritime nation for generations. The Swedish merchant fleet has been an asset for our other industries, which need to get their goods on the international market. A Swedish flag has been a symbol of important jobs, tax revenue, environment and development in the industry. Unfortunately, over the last two decades we have seen a constant reduction in the number of Swedish flagged ships on the world's seas. There are, of course, several reasons for this, but one of the arguments raised by industry itself is that under the flag of other countries they can have a more favourable taxation. This has impoverished the Swedish merchant fleet, job losses and the skills of shipping are under threat. In order to overcome the distortion of competition, a new tax is now proposed for the Swedish international merchant fleet – a tonnage tax. It is a proposal that we Moderates welcome and support. It is important for Sweden and to take advantage of the expertise of Swedish shipping that we maintain and increase the number of ships flying the Swedish flag. Madam President, I would like As previous speakers have pointed out, it has been a lengthy process. It started in 2004, and we've had several investigations. The fact that this is a complex issue appeared before the summer, when we thought we were in the case, but when the European Commission objected to certain details of the bill that they felt were contrary to the EU State aid rules. Once again, with some minor adjustments, we can finally debate today the proposal for a Swedish tonnage tax system. All taxes should have a clear purpose, and for this amendment of the law, the goal is for us to see, through increased competitiveness, once again the growth of the number of Swedish-flagged ships in our merchant fleet. A growing shipping industry has positive effects on all Swedish industries. It is now up to our shipping companies to show that tonnage taxation is actually moving towards this objective. All the signals we have received from the Swedish shipping industry are heading in that direction. Not often can we see a more visible and concrete result than if we manage to achieve the goals through this tax change – an increased number of Swedish flags on the world's seas.
i-669ef95baabface2-280	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to make a very good decision, which we are debating now. We will finally give the Swedish shipping industry better conditions to operate in Sweden. There are several reasons why it is good to do so. It is good for Swedish jobs, business and competitiveness. It is important in order to make transport more efficient, and therefore it is also an important environmental issue. A major advantage of transporting goods on water is that the infrastructure is fixed. We don't work on the ocean, I promise you, no matter how much we use it. It is also energy efficient to transport on water, and large volumes can be transported on the same cargo ship. This is good for Swedish jobs. When the matter was prepared in committee, it emerged that this creates good conditions for once again getting a large fleet under the Swedish flag. The parties have indicated that it is important to get the system in place as soon as possible and to avoid further delays. It is therefore a good thing that we have been able to deal with this issue quickly since we received the green light from the European Commission. The legislation will allow companies to choose between conventional taxation and new tonnage taxation. This flexibility is good. Anyone who has entered the system may remain in it for ten years, but it is voluntary to enter. The issue has been investigated for a long time. Already in Göran Persson's time, an investigation was set up, the Tonnage Tax Investigation, which was completed just before the 2006 elections. But then nothing happened in all the years that the Alliance Government ruled, despite the fact that in 2007 there was already an announcement from the Riksdag that legislation would come into place. It is nine and a half years since the investigation was completed; it has simply been a very long time. This was delayed and did not proceed with the proposals. However, it is gratifying that today we have a consensus that we should stick through and get the system in place. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats had comments in their speech and said that the Green Party talks and does not deliver. Let's get the system in place. I have read the opinion of the Swedish Democrats from last year, when we dealt with tax issues in the budget, and I can see that there was no mention of tonnage tax. There were a lot of other proposals to raise restaurant VAT and make it even more advantageous for car travel and thus put public transport passengers even more at a disadvantage than today. There were also proposals to remove the tax reduction for micro-generation of electricity and a lot of other things, but nothing about the tonnage tax, which we are deciding today. Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report.
i-669ef95baabface2-289	Madam President, I would like In our reservation, as I said earlier, we have pointed out the lack of the proposal in favour of Swedish national shipping – coastal shipping and archipelago traffic. In the vast majority of cases, it is completely excluded from the tonnage tax system. This applies, for example, to Gotland traffic. In addition to the really large shipping companies in Sweden, we in Sweden today have about 117 shipping companies operating in the archipelago environments, on the canals and in the large lakes. It could be Motala Canaltrafik AB, which with two passenger ships operates on Vättern and Göta Canal with cruise traffic and other things. It may be Blidösundsbolaget, which performs a great cultural act by maintaining passenger traffic with the old coal-fired steamboat s/ s Blidösund and four other ships. They also run a hostel in the archipelago environment. It can be Seacab AB at Möja, which with four ordinary ships and a hovercraft carries out boat taxi operations and regular services and with this contributes to a living archipelago. These and all the other shipping companies carry out a very important activity, which there is every reason to facilitate with good legislation. For many of these shipping companies, a tonnage tax system would allow them to expand and secure their activities. It would benefit the entire archipelago development and open up opportunities to live in the archipelago all year round, which in turn would contribute to a positive development for Sweden. Why are you in MP so averse to facilitating this type of business? Don't you want all of Sweden to live? That is what we want from Swedish democrats.
i-669ef95baabface2-293	Madam President, I would like The Green Party and the Government have put forward a number of proposals which have made it easier not least for the activities of ships on water when we have reduced fuel taxes for this particular purpose in the budget we have put forward. I think that the criticisms that come from the Swedish Democrats are fundamental. As I said in my speech, none of the proposals that Olle Felten from the Swedish Democrats spoke about were in the budget motion that they put forward. The newly awakened interest in the question is, of course, good. I would have liked it to have also been about other forms of sustainable transport, and I hope that the budget that the Swedish Democrats will present contains something like that. So far, however, there has been no such thing until we finally deal with the matter in this House.
i-669ef95baabface2-295	Madam President, I would like Rasmus Ling starts talking about a lot of other things than tonnage taxation and Swedish coastal shipping. But that is what we are discussing now and not a lot of other strange proposals that have nothing to do with this. My question to Rasmus Ling and the Green Party is again: why do you not want to support a Swedish tonnage taxation system that also includes national coastal shipping and archipelago traffic with the limitations that exist in many referrals and that we have also mentioned in our reservation? Why do you not want to benefit Swedish coastal shipping in this way?
i-669ef95baabface2-297	Madam President, I would like When we present the proposal, we make it easier for Swedish shipping that is internationally competitive. We will have the same conditions as in the other countries of Europe. I think that's good. When it comes to supporting rural areas and shipping, there are several ways to do this. In the budget that we are presenting to Parliament, there will be other ways in which we do so. This is an ambition that we have to pursue for the rest of our term of office. We will now see whether the Swedish Democrats will put forward any such proposals, but they have not done so in their previous budgets.
i-669ef95baabface2-299	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. When I went to Parliament today, it was just like everyone else: It was raining out. I get very annoyed when it rains. I think I'm in the wrong place, and I think everything around me is very wrong. I don't know if you're the same. But when it comes to tonnage tax, it feels like a sunny autumn day. It's so sweet in the sun you don't want to complain. You are just content and hope that no one destroys the image that you have inside. So it feels a little bit when it comes to tonnage tax; you just want it to come in place, and then we have to deal with the situation one after that. The shipping industry is capital intensive. For this reason, tax regulations and tax policies have a major impact on the competitiveness of the industry. It is a major impact that we cannot turn a blind eye to. That is something we must do something about because the Swedish merchant fleet is at a disadvantage to others in Europe at present. We, as Christian Democrats, see an advantage in the fact that the nation of Sweden has strong shipping, and we believe that there is a great potential for growth if a tonnage tax is introduced. As a nation in Europe, Sweden wants to emphasise that we are at the forefront of many different things. We will be there and push the other countries to new opportunities and new goals. But when it comes to competitiveness towards other European countries for companies, we are usually European champions in finding rules and taxes that disadvantage our Swedish companies. Sweden is the only maritime country in the EU that has no tonnage tax. With this has followed an increasingly smaller merchant fleet. We believe that the decision before us will enable us to reverse this trend. The Swedish shipping industry must have the same rules as others in the EU. We believe that it will at last be at least more similar and that we have a greater opportunity. A tonnage tax means that the income of shipping companies is fixed on a flat-rate basis according to the tonnage volume of the vessels and not the actual income. Tonnage is deemed to be a measure of the cargo capacity of the vessels and thus their earning capacity. The main rule is that the company does not have to make sales and investments in ships on the basis of fiscal considerations. With a tonnage tax system, the tax is independent of the company's performance for a given year. We as a party may of course consider the financing of the tonnage tax itself to be unfortunate, but at present the most important and predominantly objective is to get this in place and to work on the basis of it – that is, a sunny autumn day. We believe that not introducing a tonnage tax would have a major negative impact on the number of merchant ships flying the Swedish flag. Thus, Sweden would lose even more power and knowledge towards other countries. It has taken too long; we all think so. However, we are pleased that the proposal is here, and we are happy to take this decision.
i-669ef95baabface2-308	Madam President, I would like Finally, Madam President and Swedish shipping, we are now a few hours away from pressing the button to ensure that the long-awaited tonnage tax will be introduced in Sweden! It is not quite common for us Moderates to stand here and rejoice in the introduction of new taxes. Take the time to enjoy it, you on the left! It may never happen again. This is a treasure that the industry has longed for. It's a treasure that the industry needs. It is a tax that, instead of creating differences, now creates equivalences. It creates a level playing field for an important industry. It has been a long process of dealing with the issue. We have heard some of my representatives in the speaker's chair give some different descriptions of reality. Some are true, some are excessive and some are a bit corroded. I'm glad to have been working on this issue for many years. It could have gone faster; we can agree on that. But now it's gone right and right. I am pleased that during the period of the alliance we took the initiative to conduct a new investigation into tonnage tax. The investigation carried out in the early 2000s met with criticism from many quarters. It wasn't to fill. Then it could have been faster to make a new one. However, the directives that provided the conditions for this investigation were not about introducing a tonnage tax, but about what it would look like so that Swedish shipping could be promoted. Shipping is a classic industry that belongs to a trading nation. Shipping is a lot of history but also a lot of future. When road and rail freight traffic will soon have reached its full capacity, what remains? Yes, the waterway. Water is the way. That is why we must see shipping as a strategically important industry. We know that about three and a half jobs ashore are created by a job at sea. It is important to have a shipping and a living shipping industry in Sweden, and there are many reasons for that. Madam President, I would like Now the tonnage tax allows the shipping industry to have conditions equivalent to those of its competitors in other countries. There are spots in this proposal-- it's clear that there are spots-- which are quite small. But the most important thing right now, when we stand here on 28 September, is that the tonnage tax really comes into being. There will be an evaluation. There will be a trial in a while, and then it may well be time to see if this system could perhaps be developed. Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about why Swedish flagged shipping is so important. This means, of course, that the jobs are still in Sweden. I think we all think that is a good thing here. This also means that there will be more tax revenue to Sweden. This also means that Swedish conditions on the labour market for those working in this industry may apply. I think we think that's a good thing. This also means that Sweden's influence in the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) is increased, because that influence is based on the existence of its own flag fleet, and it is based on the size of it that the influence in the IMO plays a role. There are relatively small costs per year. We are talking about SEK 45 million. There are concerns that these costs will exceed revenues. I dare to wager at least a 20-krona note that this will certainly not be to the detriment of Swedish shipping. In the long term, we will provide the conditions that will enable us to also create confidence in the future for Swedish shipping. But tonnage tax is not enough. We must also have an idea of how Swedish shipping can develop, and it is an idea of how Swedish industry can function. The Alliance initiated the latest tonnage tax investigation. I am grateful that the government has used the investigation and made a good proposal of this. The Alliance government also initiated a maritime action plan, which was followed up by the maritime strategy. I am grateful that the current government has carried out the Alliance's initiatives in this area. It also thanks the Swedish shipping industry for this, because these were good initiatives. It is not possible to break out tonnage tax as the only issue for Swedish shipping. There are many other issues that matter. It is good that the government has brought this issue to fruition. When it comes to reconsidering this, there is a reason why you have a little softer wording than was intended from the beginning, namely the basis of why you should reconsider it. It is said that if it turns out that the Swedish fleet has not increased, this tonnage tax system can disappear. But there are other reasons why it can be reduced. It can be poor profitability. You may also have to dismantle ships for other reasons, and that must be legitimate, because it is still not prohibited to do bad business. It can be economic reasons and external factors. It may also have shifted operations and moved from shipping to clean management. These are things that we have to consider in the evaluation, and there is no reason to paint anything on the wall that is not relevant today. Madam President, I would like The Tonnage Tax plays a role, but it also plays a role in a good nutritional climate and good skills provision. There are other things that this committee will have to deal with in the future: options and tax conditions. I would like to thank the initiators of Blue Growth. It is the Maritime Committee, Seko Seafarers and Svensk S jöfart. It started on the bistro on a train a few years ago and ended in Blue Growth. Thank you for contributing constructively to this! More jobs at sea provide more jobs on land, and more trade is needed when protectionist winds blow the world over.
i-669ef95baabface2-322	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that of course I support all the Left Party reservations, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 3. We are discussing here the matter of the Swedish National Audit Office's report on financial risks for the state in respect of mining waste. It was a very solid report that the Swedish National Audit Office did last year and is just dealing with the issue of the large amounts of waste arising from the mining industry. We should know that the mining industry alone is the sector that produces by far the most waste in Sweden. It accounts for 80 per cent of the total Swedish waste production. Therefore, I think this review from the Swedish National Audit Office is very important. We from the Left Party have taken note of some of the important and urgent proposals of the Swedish National Audit Office. I'll get back to them. This discussion is taking place in a context where the mining industry and ore production are breaking new records in Sweden. New mines are being opened – although some others are being closed down – and concessions for exploration for new deposits are being given on a continuous basis by our authority Bergsstatet. We in Sweden have the lowest fees and taxes for the mining industry in the developed world. Our mineral fee is only 2 per mil of the landed value. For example, this has been noted in a comparison made by the World Bank a while ago. We from the Left Party think it is clear that the mining industry in Sweden must take a much greater responsibility. We think so for a number of reasons. We think so for social and labour market reasons. We do not want an industry that is fly-in/ fly-out, which is here for quick profits and then leaves – an industry that does not invest in the local community but is just looking for short-term profits. We want long-term and sustainable investment, and we also believe that by making the right forms of economic and environmental demands on this industry we can have greater responsibility. We do not think that the so-called mineral strategist gin presented by the former bourgeois government is far enough. The Swedish National Audit Office focuses on some important things, and it concerns who should take the financial responsibility for the major environmental interventions that mining involves. As I said earlier, mining accounts for by far the largest amounts of waste produced in Sweden. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that over the past 40 years the waste from the mining industry has increased avalanche. Although it is said that the industry should take the financial responsibility for restoring and cleaning up a mining operation, it is not entirely self-evident that it does so, quite the contrary. Often the invoice is sent to the state and to us taxpayers. For example, the Blaiken Day Crime in Västerbotten. That mine was opened about ten years ago to break, among other things, zinc, gold and lead. The mine was opened by a company called Scanmining. Soon thereafter, that company went bankrupt and was acquired by another company, which in turn went bankrupt about five years ago. Now it can be noted that there is no money left to restore after the major interventions that have taken place in the environment and a nearby lake. Advokat Jan Lindahl stated in the media a few months ago: When it comes to the final post-treatment, it is the state and taxpayers' money that will be used. Unfortunately, this is the case in several cases in Sweden. We in the Left Party believe that this is because the legislation is far too tame. We in the Left Party have a number of proposals that are based on what the National Audit Office addresses. Firstly, we want to see a long-term sector-funded fund for precisely after-treatment and clean-up. The Fund shall also be used to control the waste produced by the mining industry. We will then comply with what is said in our environmental legislation, namely that it is the polluter who should pay. If the industry joins forces and invests money in a fund, there is security in cases where it is unclear who should pay. Secondly, we believe that the environmental code needs to be strengthened. We in the Left would like to see that it is the environmental code that should govern the state and the demands made on the mining industry. The mineral law should therefore be included in the environmental code. If the environmental code can be adjusted to require financial security for the companies and their possible subsidiaries when they open a mine, we also get an extra guarantee that these are serious actors and not short-term fortune seekers. Another of our proposals, then, is that the environmental code should be adjusted so that financial security is required. Thirdly, we want more requirements to be imposed on permit holders in the case of so-called processing concessions, i.e. when a company is allowed to drill for ore deposits. Today it is given the permit on fairly loose boliners and on assembly lines by the Bergsstatet. The mountain state should be able to go in and demand budgeting for waste management and after-treatment costs. We understand that it is not easy to specify an exact amount that the companies are going to fund, but you have to take the height in order for there to be financial security at the test drilling stage. I believe that all serious actors would understand this if these demands were made. This would also be a way of sifting away the short-term, rogue fortune seekers so that those who are looking for long-term and sustainable investment remain. This is clear from our reservation 3 which I support. Finally, I would like to emphasise the demand that we from the Left Party have made on several occasions, namely that we want the mineral levy to be increased from the present 2 per cent to 10 per cent. This money will go back to the region, to the state and also to others affected by mining. Of course, the money will also go to the landowners. By increasing the mineral fee, we in Sweden get out of the bottom swamp in which we now find ourselves. We have the lowest fees and taxes in the entire developed world for mining and mining. This would bring in more money that could be invested in a variety of important activities.
i-669ef95baabface2-343	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats are a party that builds its policy on some important pillars, including the principle of human dignity of the equal and unique value of all people, the principle of subsidiarity, which is about decisions at the right level, and our responsibility for the future through the so-called principle of stewardship. We have a responsibility to manage, use and preserve, rather than to toil, throw away and consume. Everything we do affects both the time and the offspring. This applies to all areas of society, but perhaps above all to views of the national economy and the environment. The Christian Democrats are opposed to the drawbacks of the consumer society which have led to a materialistically inspired slit-and-slipping philosophy, which has led to an irresponsible management with poisoning of air, water and soil as a result. In our country, we have four important basic industries in which mining is included together with agriculture, fisheries and forestry. These four basic industries have been crucial to our country's material prosperity and growth. Madam President, I would like The report that Parliament is about to decide is about financial risks for the state in connection with mining waste. The mining industry is important for Sweden – I want to make that clear – but it inevitably leads to different forms of negative environmental impact. The Swedish National Audit Office has concluded in an audit that the system of financial guarantees for mining activities does not sufficiently minimise the risk that the state and thus taxpayers will have to pay for the necessary after-treatment of closed mines. The Swedish National Audit Office recommends the Government to investigate, among other things, long-term sector financing of after-treatment, control and supervision of closed mines when financial guarantees are insufficient. The review of the financial guarantees for mining operations carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office shows that the amount of the security issued amounts to approximately SEK 2.7 billion. The Swedish National Audit Office's starting point is that a profitable mining operation requires that the deposit can also bear the costs of waste management and after-treatment of the area, which should really be self-evident. This is not currently being examined in connection with the Berg State's examination of the application for a processing concession. In order to reduce the risk that the state and thus taxpayers will have to pay for after-treatment costs, we believe that the government should consider constitutional changes to clarify that the Berg State's review of processing concessions should also include waste management and post-treatment costs. In its reply to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, the Government states that it does not make the assessment that a previous review of these costs would be more appropriate than today's review. On the contrary, we Christian Democrats see the possibility that early demands for financial collateral can contribute to the screening of operators who want to operate in the mining industry. The fact that it is clear from the outset when applying for a processing concession that the company can pay for waste management and after-treatment, and not as at present in connection with the assessment of environmental permits under the Environmental Code, could minimise the State's own costs. Even when only exploration has been carried out, there is a need for restoration. Among other things, it is important not to leave the holes left behind leaking out toxins or – as has happened – forgotten pipes sticking out of the ground, as it can harm humans and animals. This is a shortcoming at the moment. The requirement and follow-up of post-exploration recovery should therefore be tightened. We have two reservations. I am, of course, in favour of both of these, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 4 on the trial of the Mountain State.
i-669ef95baabface2-356	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report as a whole to be approved. We are now discussing the mining industry. The conditions of the mining industry are an issue in which three important policy areas are met, namely rural life policy, economic policy and environmental policy. Sweden is a fantastic country with a magnificent nature and enormous contrasts. Today, just over one in three people lives in rural areas. A growing rural area with good job and well-being opportunities is a prerequisite for growth throughout the country. And there is a will and potential in the Swedish countryside. There are strong positive forces here that we must take advantage of. This was the focus of the Social Democrats before the 2014 elections, and that is the government's direction after the elections. Unemployment in rural areas is higher than in urban areas. People are forced to go away from the smaller towns to find a job. We all know this, but we also know that politics can make a difference. The government is now making efforts to develop a comprehensive rural policy, broadly and politically based. We Social Democrats want to see a Sweden where we gather to build society and develop the Swedish model. In it we make demands on each other and help each other across the country. There competitiveness and decency go hand in hand. The Government's goal is that Sweden will have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. Then the countryside is needed. The government is working on a strategy for a new industrialization of Sweden. We invest in roads, railways and broadband. We want to secure the supply of knowledge to rural businesses through more places in adult education and universities throughout the country. We Social Democrats have a policy of making the whole country better to live in. Our focus is on more cooperation and investment for the future so that Swedish companies can grow and employ. With more jobs, we can also afford a welfare to be proud of. Mining is a strategically important future industry with great development potential. Mineral extraction is a large part of Sweden's export value and is mainly found in rural areas. Sweden is a leading mining nation in Europe. In addition, a large part of the advanced technology used by the industry is developed by Swedish companies and researchers. To enable continued expansion and more jobs, a number of measures are needed. The Government's ambition is that Sweden will continue to be strong as a mining nation and a pioneer country for an environmentally sustainable mining industry and waste management. We need to expand the infrastructure, provide more training and improve research resources. These are some areas where efforts are needed, and where the government has started to deliver. We Social Democrats believe that if Sweden is to be able to take advantage of the development of the mining industry, a holistic approach is required, which also includes the conditions for the municipalities concerned to deal with the huge opportunities but also the tough challenges that this entails. So what we are discussing here today is the answer given by the government to the Swedish National Audit Office's review of whether the current system of financial guarantees for mining operations minimises the risk that the state will have to pay for the subsequent treatment of discontinued mining operations. It is about the basic principle that the polluter should pay and, in this case, not the taxpayer. Basically, it is also a question of free enterprise and free competition. The state and taxpayers should not subsidise business activities because the free market will be disturbed. But, as I said, it is also a question of the survival of the countryside and of industrial policy. We have to have a system that helps, not spoils. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office has made some criticisms, and the government is in fact in agreement on the whole. The Swedish National Audit Office says that there are problems when determining the size of the financial guarantees, the security coverage and environmental inspections of mining operations. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, these problems together have the effect that the current system of financial guarantees for mining activities does not minimize the risks sufficiently. The risk is that the state, and therefore the taxpayer, will have to pay for the post-treatment of closed mines. We note that the mines account for a very large part of the waste in Sweden and that the amount of mining waste has increased significantly in Sweden in recent years. This is due to both increased mining and decreased metal concentrations in the ores that are mined. Despite large amounts of waste and significant environmental impacts, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, there is no long-term strategy for the management of mining waste and assessment of post-treatment measures. Madam President, I would like I will not use my speaking time to review the technical details of the Swedish National Audit Office's review. However, I can see that the motions that have come in for this review are quite flat when you read the government's response. The government has said that in the large parts it will do exactly what the Swedish National Audit Office has demanded. In some parts, the Government believes that the Swedish National Audit Office's analysis is not fully updated. As far as the Christian Democrats' motion requests were concerned, the former bourgeois government carried out a major change to the mineral law, which entered into force as late as 1 August 2014. I have no greater transparency – in fact no one at all – in the way in which the process between the bourgeois parties took place, but it feels a little strange that the Christian Democrats are now putting forward claims that should have been taken care of in the process between the four parties Madam President, I would like We have to take a position on a response from the Government to the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of the proceedings. The government agrees in large parts with the Swedish National Audit Office. The Government has stated in the budget bill, among other things, that it intends to review the financing of the management of mining waste and after-treatment in closed mines. That's how it should work when it works at its best. The auditors will find a problem. The government agrees and does something about it.
i-669ef95baabface2-374	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Maria Strömkvist. You said, Maria, that our moves on this matter are quite flat. Unfortunately, I think that the majority of the committee's answers are rather flat, or at least they fall short, on certain important issues. The first concerns the state of Bergsstaten for test drilling. I think it is clear in this case that the Mountain State gives many such permissions, and it is very fast when you give them. However, no economic demands are placed on those who are allowed to drill in the ground and then perhaps open a mine in terms of restoring the environment. When I read your answer, I honestly think it feels rather tense. What you are saying is that it is difficult to assess the size of a financial guarantee, i.e. how much money these companies should fund. I agree: it is difficult to say an exact sum. But can we not agree, Maria, that it would be good to make economic demands on those who test drill in our Swedish bedrock? In this way, could we not sift out those companies that are looking for quick money and short-term profits but do not take any environmental or social responsibility at all? We know that there are such players in this sector. That was my first question. My second question concerns the fact that we in Sweden have the world's lowest mineral fee. It is ridiculously low: 2 per mil of the value of what you pick up from the bedrock. We in the Left Party want to raise it. We think it is time for this industry to pay for what is being picked up. You simply reply that you do not want to anticipate the preparation of the government. But what exactly is the government's preparation? I'd like to know.
i-669ef95baabface2-381	Madam President, I would like As stated in the Government's letter, the Government has started work to investigate and analyse the conditions for new cost recovery models. The government also makes the assessment that a deeper analysis is required. There you probably do not really agree with the Swedish National Audit Office, which should have updated its analysis based on the different conditions and what happened over time. The government is working on this. The starting point of the analysis is today's legislation, which means that the polluter pays. That's what's at the bottom of it. But it is not as simple as that the Mountain State can only add to this. That is the problem. In that case, perhaps the Mountain State would have a simple model for it. What is the big difference between oss is that it is about 10 percent instead of 2 percent. You will not be able to have any mining activities in the country with the Left Party's proposals. We Social Democrats and the government believe that mining operations are incredibly important for the country.
i-669ef95baabface2-385	Madam President, I would like I don't really think I got answers to my questions. The first thing I want to say is that we want mining in Sweden. But we want serious actors. I thought it would also be in the interest of the Social Democrats that we get actors who are looking for long-term, sustainable investments that are important for creating good jobs where the mines are located, not fly-in/ fly-out, and who also take responsibility for the environment. We see that there is an extremely great potential for improvement in this regard. I don't think Maria Strömkvist answers my question. When the Bergsstatet authorises a test drilling operation, operators who enter shall be able to demonstrate that they have financial cost recovery in order to assume environmental responsibility for the waste and processing after the action they have taken in the environment. What is really the problem with us legislating on it, Maria Strömkvist? My second question concerns the increase in the mineral levy. I don't think all the mining industry would close down in Sweden just because we get a mineral fee that would still be well below the fee in a lot of other comparable countries. Hardly! I rather believe that it is the case that we keep the serious players who want to pay a fee and do the right thing. I asked you a specific question. You say in your reply that you do not want to anticipate the preparation of the government. But then I want to know: What is the government preparing? Does the government intend to come back with a proposal for an increased mineral fee in Sweden? That is what we are proposing in our reservation, and that is what you are responding to.
i-669ef95baabface2-389	Madam President, I would like Again, Sweden should be a pioneer for sustainable development in the mining industry, and we must then also give the mining industry the opportunity. With a mineral levy as high as 10%, we do not think it would be possible for the new companies to come. As far as the trials from the Bergsstatet are concerned, I know from my municipality that the trials that are being carried out before you even get permission to drill are much more serious today. These are tougher demands. But to say that you should have a plan for how to pay when you don't even know if you will pick up any ore is troubling. That is also what the government is now preparing: how to synchronise these two processes.
i-669ef95baabface2-391	Madam President, I would like We in the Swedish Democrats support the environment – and the Committee on Agriculture's position regarding the Swedish National Audit Office's report on financial risks for the state in relation to mining waste. However, we would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the need for review of so-called mineralisation. Sweden has, as everyone knows, abundant presences of minerals, and the mining industry is very important for some regions and for Sweden as a whole and as a nation. We in Sweden Democrats see the country's mineral resources as the assets of the Swedish people and therefore believe that it is reasonable that the value generated by these assets should benefit Swedish citizens. We would like to recall here the fundamental view that we have already expressed on the review of mineralisation. In a reservation in the Committee on Economic Affairs' mineral policy report 2015/ 16:NU14, the Swedish Democrats have earlier this year stated that mineralisation should be reformed. The current construction gives the state a far too small share of the value generated by the mining industry, while at the same time the state has to pay for the heavy investments in infrastructure, among other things, but also take responsibility for the afterwork and various environmental damage that may occur. In our specific opinion, we state that the state and the mining industry have a common interest in these matters. A reformed mineral substitute could be part of helping the state to pursue a much more active mining and mineral policy. Madam President, I would like In our opinion, mineralisation should be increased from the current 2 per mil to 5 per cent. The landowner's share should remain at the current level, while the remaining part should be allocated to the State. Furthermore, we believe that the state's share of mineralisation should be placed in a fund and earmarked for efforts mainly to stimulate development and employment in rural areas for those directly or indirectly affected by the mining industry. A viable mining and mineral industry is an important cornerstone for a living countryside and forms the basis for a Sweden-friendly policy for the whole country.
i-669ef95baabface2-396	Madam President, I would like I have two questions concerning Anders Forsberg's speech. Anders! You probably heard me tell you about the Blaiken mine in Västerbotten, which went bankrupt only about five years after it started. Now the bill is sent to the state and to us taxpayers. The decontamination is likely to be twice as expensive as previously thought, about SEK 300 million. Do not, Madam President, the Swedish Democrats think it would be a good idea to require these companies to have long-term sector funding, so that they have money to take environmental responsibility when it is unclear who should pay for the clean-up? We have proposed this in this report, but the Swedish Democrats oppose it. This seems to me to be a false rhyme with what Anders Forsberg has just said from the pulpit that the mining industry must take responsibility. Linked to this, I would also like to ask whether the Swedish Democrats do not think it is reasonable that the Bergsstatet, the authority that grants permission for test drilling, should be able to impose financial guarantees on the companies that enter, so that we know that there is money to clean up and restore after the interventions that have been made in the environment. I asked about this earlier too. In this way, I believe that we could sift out rogue actors and retain the serious players. Don't the Swedish Democrats think so? Why are you going to vote against these proposals this afternoon?
i-669ef95baabface2-399	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the questions. As far as the specific mine is concerned, it was a real soup that just got worse. If you mix in even more bad ingredients in the soup it gets even worse. But it is obvious that this mine was heavily influenced, above all, by mineral prices and perhaps overbelief in the success of investments. As I mentioned in my main speech, we support the Swedish National Audit Office's report. We support those proposals and also the responses that have been received. Above all, I think it should be highlighted that some of this policy is already being implemented in many parts today. Then it is also the case that we have to wait for the proposals that are coming. At this point, we found no reason to go in and object to those parts. Then I think that the Left Party highlights some interesting aspects – precisely that of securing the environment and sufficient financial resources to cover environmental losses and so on. In principle, we therefore agree, but at this point we did not think it was enough to depart from the committee proposal that was on the table.
i-669ef95baabface2-403	Madam President, I would like I think that Anders Forsberg's answer rather well illustrates how the Swedish Democrats conduct politics in today's Sweden. They say all the time, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the one hand, and on the other, but what is the concrete thing you want to do? Here there are a number of sharp proposals to impose environmental and social requirements with financial guarantees on these companies that establish themselves in Sweden. Unfortunately, many of them are looking for quick profits and do not want to take social responsibility. Then Anders Forsberg says yes, these are legitimate proposals, these are good things that we really agree with, but you are not going to vote for them now in a few hours. I find that odd. I think it is a good thing that the Swedish Democrats are pushing for an increased mineral levy, but it is a special opinion in the report. No motion has been brought to your attention with a strong demand for it now that you have the chance, because this is where we have the report open. I would therefore like to ask Anders Forsberg once again: Do you really not think that this is a good enough proposal to make demands on those actors who want to establish themselves in Sweden by demanding financial guarantees so that the environment, lakes, soil and forest are not destroyed for tens or perhaps hundreds of years to come, as we have unfortunately seen examples of? If you think so, you should vote in favour of these proposals.
i-669ef95baabface2-406	Madam President, I would like Thank you for Jens Holm's illustral imitation of me. As far as mineral compensation is concerned, it is primarily to be dealt with in the mineral policy report; I believe that Jens Holm also knows that. This is not, of course, dealt with primarily in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, but above all in the Committee on Economic Affairs. However, with regard to what is on the table and which we have dealt with today and which we are going to discuss, we still have to start from what we are debating, namely the economic risks to the state. We choose to give a special opinion on the other parts because we find it interesting to highlight them, but it is mainly those issues that should be dealt with. When it comes to whether we are pursuing an entrepreneurial or industrial policy, I am convinced that the Swedish Democrats are pursuing a much better entrepreneurial or industrial policy than the Left Party. I think that is quite obvious to most of Sweden's citizens.
i-669ef95baabface2-410	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the state's economic risks in relation to mining waste. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Two speed cameras and a tax increase. That's what the mine gave us. We were probably many who benched in front of the TV yesterday to see the start of Po Tidholm's series The rest of Sweden. Especially interesting for today's debate was the feature about the Tapuli mine outside Pajala. Local government politicians, civil servants and other residents were interviewed there. The quote about the speed cameras and the tax increase came from the author and Pajalabon Mikael Niemi. In January 2013, I visited Pajala. The mining of iron ore, which had been going on for a few months, had given confidence in the future in the area. The moving currents had turned. The municipality invested 60 million in new housing, and the government allocated extra money to strengthen the road from Svappavaara for the heavy trucks. In Parliament we debated whether the road should be electrified or whether a railway should be built to Pajala. In December 2014, the mine went bankrupt. The houses are now empty, and the slag heaps are abandoned. And who gets to pay for the dream of the mine? Yes, it gets the taxpayers in Pajala and the rest of the country. We also have to pay for the management of the mining waste, despite the financial security requirements imposed on the company Northland Resources when they were granted permission to start breaking. Madam President, I would like Mining and other mining activities have been and are of great importance to Sweden. Our economic development has largely been based on the exploitation and processing of domestic raw materials such as ore, forest and hydropower. But extraction has also caused, and is causing, major interference and damage to nature and health risks to humans. A future-oriented and sustainable mineral policy must be based on a holistic approach that embraces not only the dream of money and jobs, but also the impact on nature, society and the relationship society – nature, in Sweden and in the rest of the world. Therefore, the Environmental Party welcomes the Swedish National Audit Office's review. It highlights several problems with the mining industry in Sweden and proposes a number of important changes. These are better and safer financing solutions, modern waste management methods and increased classification of mining waste with dangerous properties. Madam President, I would like The Government's ambition is that Sweden should be a pioneer country for an environmentally sustainable mining industry and waste management. In its letter, the Government is clear that the costs of post-treatment and management of waste from mining activities should not be borne by the State and taxpayers. The government has also already taken a number of measures in response to the letter. Among other things, work has begun on the actions or measures needed to ensure that there is sufficient financial security. An industry or insurance solution is something that the Green Party has previously proposed to be investigated. But there can certainly also be other ways of ensuring that the costs end up where they should, according to the polluter pays principle, that is to say, with the mining companies and not with the taxpayers. How the companies deal with mining waste is a major and important issue, Madam President. Eighty-three per cent of Sweden's resulting waste amounts consist of extractive waste from the mining industry. Alternative uses for mining waste need to be found. For example, it can be reriched or used as ballast material in infrastructure and community planning. The Government therefore instructed the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and Sweden's geological study, SGU, in April of this year to jointly develop a long-term strategy for the management of extractive waste and make an assessment of post-treatment measures taking into account alternative use of extractive waste. This is a step towards a more circular economy. Another important step for the Green Party towards a circular economy is that we recycle minerals and other natural resources, including from our built-up environments. There are large amounts of metals to reuse here – substances in products and plants that are no longer used, but that only remain. One example is all buried end-of-life cables containing lead and copper from former Banverket and Telia. Our legislation does not include any requirement to pick up these deposits for reuse. There is also uncertainty as to who has the right to do so and to break these mineral resources and how the value should be distributed. The Green Party believes that the government should take measures to facilitate this so-called urban mining and other ways to reuse metals and other natural resources in our country. I say this as a diversion, Madam President, because today's debate is about mining waste. However, I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise that the Green Party is pursuing several proposals for a sustainable mineral policy. For those interested, they are summarized in a parliamentary motion entitled A sustainable mineral policy, which we submitted during the last parliamentary term. But, Madam President, let me go back to the report and the letter. The Government states in its letter, like the Swedish National Audit Office, that priority should be given to the work of classifying certain extractive waste as hazardous waste. Some types of sulphide-containing grey rock waste can, for example, generate toxic, carcinogenic and ecotoxic leachate, which can also be toxic to humans at direct exposure. Sometimes radioactive substances and heavy metals are also present in the waste. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in its report that a large part of the mining waste has dangerous properties but that only a small part of the waste is actually classified as hazardous. The Government has now commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to remedy this. The Government's actions in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report are a few steps in the direction of environmentally sustainable mining and waste management. It is also gratifying that we are now seeing steps in the right direction elsewhere too. One example is the Supreme Administrative Court's decision regarding the mining of rare earth metals in Northern marshes, north of Gränna. It strengthens the protection of Natura 2000 sites in Sweden and is an important precedent that I hope will guide in the future. Another example is that the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management decides to identify 28 facilities as a national interest in water supply. These are areas with facilities from north to south in Sweden that together supply over 6.1 million people with drinking water. The Authority's decision gives drinking water supply the same status as other important social functions. A third example, and something that the Green Party has been fighting for for many years, is the government's decision to protect the areas around Bästeträsk and Ojnare on Gotland. It is a step towards a better balance between environmental and production interests and a sign of political recognition of the importance of protecting our drinking water. I hope that this insight will also exist when the question of the defense shooting drills over Lake Vättern reaches the government table. Already today, more than a quarter of a million people receive drinking water from Lake Vättern, the country's largest drinking water supply. Madam President, I would like As an environmental party, I am proud that the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government agrees that Sweden's mining industry should be environmentally sustainable, that the environmental requirements for exploration and test drilling will now gradually be improved and that consideration should also be given to local industries, as well as that we do not open up for uranium, oil or gas extraction. A modern, sustainable society does not overexploit earth's resources. We have no right to hand over a worse world to the next generation. There are no infinite resources of metals. We must, first and foremost, reuse those we have already broken, and when we break new ones, we will do so with regard both to nature and to future generations. And we will ensure that anyone who breaks will also pay to take care of the waste properly.
i-669ef95baabface2-430	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of what Mrs Bergström said. I was talking about the Blaiken mine in Västerbotten. Stina Bergström talks about Northland Resources' closure of its mine in Pajala. These are two examples of the same problems: companies that have short-term interests and do not take responsibility for the local community or the environment. The Swedish National Audit Office has carried out an audit in which many suggestions are made as to how we can get more robust legislation. Stina Bergström says that we are taking steps in the right direction, but I think it is ant steps. Most of it's about the government still investigating a lot of things. This applies, for example, to our concrete proposal for an industry funding, which is based on what the Swedish National Audit Office says, so that the industry will take joint financial responsibility. Then we will not get more cases like those with Blaiken or Northland Resources, but there will be a fund that ultimately goes in when it is unclear who should take responsibility. You are simply saying that there is a need for in-depth analysis. This also applies to the requirement for financial guarantees in the case of drilling. There is your answer that it is difficult to determine the sum. Yes, it is difficult, but can we not agree on the principle anyway? We want financial guarantees to restore the environment to the environmental code, but you think that the current legislation is sufficient. Stina Bergström, I do not think that is enough. In fact, I have to ask, why don't you do more? Why do you keep referring to a lot of investigations?
i-669ef95baabface2-435	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm, for the questions! Yeah, why doesn't the government do more? Nevertheless, I think that this is a step in the right direction. It is clear that if the Green Party were to take part in deciding, we would take further and greater steps faster. For example, we also have proposals for sector funding. The Swedish National Audit Office proposed sector funding, but the Swedish National Audit Office has not investigated this, so for me it is self-evident that it needs to be investigated and analysed. That's exactly what the government is doing now. You also look at other solutions. In that part, I feel safe. Revision of the environmental code and the mineral law – I think we need to synchronise those legislations – is also something that we have proposed. Parts of it may come into the review that is now being carried out. But I also know that in one government, two parties agree on what to do, and in these cases it is not the case that the Green Party gets through all its proposals. When it comes to test drilling, I can see that it is problematic to determine how much it should cost. But this too, I believe, is part of the review and work that the government is now doing. I also think that we need to move forward there and also make exploration more secure in terms of funding, as the government says.
i-669ef95baabface2-439	Madam President, I would like As far as sectoral funding is concerned, I think it is the answer in the report that is most encouraging. It sounds as if the government is working with the goal that there should be sector funding. So let us hope that this will happen. But you can't go on investigating for a long time, I must add. Both you and we and the entire government knew about this before the Swedish National Audit Office did its review. As far as the test drilling requirements are concerned, I agree that it is difficult to say a fixed amount. This is probably one of the things we have expert authorities for. They shall strike such a balance. But my question to you, Stina Bergström, was about the principle. Do you and the Green Party not think that the principle is right – that companies that test drill for minerals in Sweden should be able to present financial guarantees already at that stage? We should also remember that test drilling can mean anything from a small hole to large-scale operations. At an early stage, financial guarantees should be provided. Maybe the exact level they're going to be at doesn't need you and I to talk about here-- that's the principle I was looking for. I also asked the question of increased demands for financial guarantees in the environmental code and the mineral law. Our hope is that the mineral law will be fully included in the environmental code and that it is the environmental code that will govern. But you reject our proposal. You say in your reply that the current legislation is sufficient. I cannot see at all that you are working on tightening up the environmental code in this respect. If I'm wrong, please correct me, Stina Bergström!
i-669ef95baabface2-443	Madam President, I would like With regard to the question of how long the government intends this work to last, I think it is a good sign that the government actually started the work before making its letter and leaving it to Parliament. Not only are we talking about what we are going to do, but we are also talking about the fact that we have already started that work. Then there is the question of test drilling. Yes, of course, I think that the principle is right: that we should be able to show that we can restore the area after the drilling. But how it will be done and how to calculate that cost may be included in the government's investigation. Then there was the work on a review of the environmental code and the mineral law. No, I don't know that either. But I do not think that much of it will be done at this stage in the work on the Swedish National Audit Office's report. But that is something that must be done in the future, I believe, because we have a government that says that it wants Sweden to become a pioneer country for a sustainable mining industry. Then it is at the bottom that we must have legislation that meets it, that vision and that expression of will.
i-669ef95baabface2-446	Madam President, I would like I don't really know what the Green Party and Stina Bergström really want. I've made some notes. Of course, we agree that the mining industry is important. It is very important for Sweden's prosperity. It has been important, and it will be important. But the Green Party is actually responsible for development. Stina said if the Green Party could be in charge. I don't know if it was an error, but you're in charge. It's just an enlightenment. You are in the government, and you have great opportunities to influence developments. Stina says: Of course it can be difficult, this with test drilling and knowing exactly what it would cost if you continued. Yes, but that's what you should find out, if there are such opportunities. You don't test drills and then you don't move on. You test drill to possibly move on. The purpose is to break. I don't think there's any other purpose. Thus, even there, it can be determined whether there is a possibility of continuing with a break if there are such financial opportunities for the company. My question to Stina is: What do you want?
i-669ef95baabface2-448	Madam President, I would like It was good that I was told that I made a mistake because of how much the Green Party can be involved in deciding. I mean, of course: if the Green Party were to fully determine the mining policy and the answer to the National Audit's report etcetera, there might be more pieces of what we have been pushing and proposing in the motion that I referred to in my speech. For example, we have a proposal in this motion that we should review both the environmental code and the mineral law. We have proposals on how to take greater account of biodiversity and drinking water supply when making major interventions in nature. We also have proposals for an investigation into compulsory rehabilitation and remediation insurance. When it comes to test drilling, I don't know. Lars-Lars-Axel Nordell is perhaps more familiar with who makes test drillings and when they occur. But there are actually those who do test drilling that do not think that they should do the excavation themselves. I think you should stick to this when you do a test drilling in an area. It is about looking at the restoration of the area after drilling. I think it is important to think first of all about that part.
i-669ef95baabface2-450	Madam President, I would like In this area, we are in agreement, particularly with regard to rehabilitation. We've seen in the media how you've left drill holes that cause arsenic to leak out to lakes. We've seen pipes sticking up that humans and animals can stumble over and so on. There we, as a nation, must make demands on those who do the test drilling. We politicians are not experts. I'm not an expert in this field, and I don't think Stina is either. But what we can find out is enough. Although we do not know what it will cost, it is a matter of principles and of finding out what it may look like. We don't know what it's gonna look like. We do not know exactly what opportunities there are for doing this kind of early checks. But to bring about the screening that both I and Jens have talked about would be of value. I am surprised that the Green Party does not think it would be useful to find out at an early stage whether or not a company has this opportunity. That they test drills for someone else may have happened, but that's still the requirement one should make early, I think, when they start such an investigation.
i-669ef95baabface2-452	Madam President, I would like I didn't hear any more questions, so I want to thank you very much for the questions I had before.
