i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-7	Mr President, I would like to We in the Moderates are behind our budget motion, but since the Riksdag has adopted other overall frameworks and we see the state budget as a whole, we do not take part in the decision regarding Category 22 Communications but instead give a special opinion. A well-functioning infrastructure throughout the country is a supporting part of the Moderate plan for a stronger Sweden. The infrastructure is Sweden's bloodstream that lays the foundation for jobs and growth. By investing in a robust railway, heavier trucks, a transport policy council and expansion of charging poles, Moderates' budget exercise will contribute to this bloodstream working better while reducing climate impact. Unfortunately, it is clear that the government's budget gives with one hand and takes with the other. The government presents itself as the donor of all good gifts, but the bill for all new contributions and so-called initiatives is sent to Sweden's employees and companies, and we see how the aviation, trucks and motorists get increased taxes. It is a harmful policy for jobs and growth in Sweden. We Moderates don't set traffic laws against each other. Sweden needs trains, cars, trucks, aircraft and ships, and we do not want to contribute to a debate where one type of traffic should be prioritised at the expense of another. The car is as important for rural everyday life as the commuter train is for the big city. If you are serious about the whole of Sweden living, you are obliged to see the transport needs of all people and companies. Mr President, I would like to Politics is not just about the crowns and the crowns. In a world of priorities, it is about what we spend the money on and how. It is the duty of all politicians to work to ensure that every tax chandelier is used as efficiently as possible. This applies not least to state infrastructure investments. That is why, in the Moderates of our budget motion, we want to set up a Transport Policy Council like the Fiscal Council that exists today. The proposal requires a committee of independent experts to examine the use of infrastructure resources to ensure that the socio-economic benefits weigh heavily and thus contribute to the maximum benefit for society of each invested tax chandelier. At the same time, we see how the government is turning a blind eye to the system errors that exist on Swedish railways. The large investments made on maintenance do not get into the tracks, because it is crowded and because there are problems in the organization. I therefore find it remarkable that the government is not acting on the basis of the conclusions of the greatest investigation into the organization of the railways of our time. You even refuse to send the investigation for a referral. At the same time, the government is conducting an ideological experimental workshop with a renationalisation of railway maintenance – a renationalisation that its own investigation warns against and which, according to all research, would give us less maintenance for each invested crown. That is an unwise policy, Mr President. The railway is central to work commuting and people's travelling around the country. Passengers and companies should be able to rely on trains to run on time. That is why we are building on the alliance government's successful increased investment in rail maintenance. The time when maintenance was used as a budget regulator must be over. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Green Party has gained a great deal of influence over the government's transport policy. One example is how to counter an important reform of heavy goods vehicles. Suddenly, the government says that heavy goods vehicles should not be allowed on the roads where there are other transport alternatives, such as on the lake or rail. It feels strange when the government's own authority at the same time says that e.g. the E4 and other major, important roads would be well suited for the heavier trucks. In the Moderates' budget, we invest to strengthen our roads and allow heavier trucks up to 74 tonnes, as Finland did already in 2013 and then even up to 76 tonnes. We want to invest SEK 2.4 billion over eight years to strengthen our roads. As a result of the reform, the same transport that is being carried out today can be carried out with fewer trucks, to the benefit of both the environment and the profitability of our Swedish hauliers. But the government and the Green Party are pushing to make this reform ineffective. I find it sad that the environmental party's resistance to roads has been grasped by the whole government. Mr President, I would like to Moderates see that mobility, growth and reduced climate emissions can go hand in hand. With electric cars, electric roads and biofuels, we are ensuring that emissions are limited, while transport can be allowed to continue to increase. An elongated country like Sweden depends on functioning transport. To conclude, I would like to emphasise once again the Moderates' desire for a transport policy that holds together the whole of Sweden and focuses on getting as much and as good infrastructure as possible for each invested krona. We must not abuse our power for political prestige projects. The infrastructure will build Sweden strong and benefit all of Sweden for jobs and growth throughout the country.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-21	Mr President, I would like to I found it interesting to take note of Moderates' views on transport, and I was particularly concerned that you believe that the car is important for rural life. I really think that's true. Although we want to expand railways and bicycle routes, it is undoubtedly the case that most people living outside the big cities think that car is important to cope with the necessary transport. Then I wonder how charging poles can handle the transports for everyday life. There are 5 000 electric cars in Sweden today, while the passenger car fleet in Sweden totals 4.5 million cars. An electric car costs 150 000 – 200 000 SEK more than an ordinary car, so I don't really see how we can practically solve the transport in the countryside with the help of charging poles. If Jessica Rosencra ntz asks her colleagues in Östergötland or Västergötland how people can move and manage their daily transport, she will hear that train commuting is quite important as a complement to car. I therefore wonder how the Moderates can reduce the development funding in their budget. Jessica Rosencrantz says that the Moderates are building on the alliance government's initiative, but it was the alliance government that took the initiative to build Sweden so that the Ostlink and a new core path between Stockholm and Gothenburg could be completed. For what reason does Jessica Rosencrantz no longer think that the alliance initiative was a good idea?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-26	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Svensson Smith, for the question. We in the Moderates are very clear that we both need to increase railway maintenance and expand Swedish railways. That is why we are in favour of the East Link being built, and that is why we are in favour of building the new route between Gothenburg and Borås. On the other hand, we have said that a total project on high-speed trains leading to a loss to society of 250 billion is not a sensible investment. We think that we should be able to look at whether even the parts of the current national plan – i.e. the sections mentioned by Karin Svensson Smith – can be adapted to a more traditional speed of 250 kilometres per hour. We are clear that rail investments should take place, but we do not think that political prestige projects should be allowed to go. If a project costing SEK 230 billion risks crowding out many other important investments, you have to pull the emergency brake. So yes, we want to invest in Swedish railway. But we also want to invest in charging poles, electric roads, a system of bonuses– malus and a reduction obligation to ensure that we reset the entire vehicle fleet. We want to enable cities to reserve land for car pools. We have a variety of proposals to change the road side as well. We believe, unlike the Green Party, that we should not wage war against the road or against the car, but against the emissions that destroy the climate. That's an essential difference.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-31	Mr President, I would like to I understand you're saying you shouldn't set transport teams against each other, Jessica Rosencrantz. But as far as I know, the government can't use the same money twice, any more than I think you can do in your personal budget. If you increase something, something else will have to decrease if you don't have more money. As far as I can see in your opinion, you have less money for development. How can you be sure of what your party colleagues in Västra Götaland and Östergötland say – that we must of course be able to complete the railway so that we can travel quickly between the different cities? The whole world has an urbanization, and I thought the Moderates – at least before – were a modern party that affirms that people want to live in cities and want to be able to travel quickly between cities. How can they do that if you spend less money on the development of transport?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-33	Mr President, I would like to In the next matter that we are going to discuss, we are talking about the next twelve-year plan for Swedish infrastructure. D is I think it's obvious that the Moderates have a bigger frame than the government has. So we have high ambitions when it comes to expanding Swedish infrastructure! It's just like I said, we don't set transport modes against each other. We see that we will need investment in rail, road, maritime, air and bicycle. This means, for example, that we do not accept the government's future framework, which, according to the Transport Administration's own Director General, risks reducing road standards around the country. We do not accept this form of policy. Thanks to the fact that we also say no to high-speed trains for SEK 230 billion, we have the opportunity to focus on building other things. It remains to be seen. The government has not presented any serious funding or timetable for its high-speed trains. However, this type of effort will undoubtedly mean that today's railways and roads will have to stand back. For as I said, neither does the government have unlimited resources, but will have to make priorities. We will ensure that Swedish road network is of high standard. We will expand the railways, and we will maintain the railways, but we will do it wisely. And we won't let political prestige projects drag off. We take responsibility for taxpayers' money.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-37	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats had a higher investment in the spending framework than the government. The Parliament thus made a different calculation of the State's revenue for 2017 than had been the case with our proposal. Since the majority of Parliament in the budget process has given budgetary policy a completely different direction than the Swedish Democrats wanted, we refrain from taking part in the decision on appropriations in Category 22. Our common infrastructure has enormous value and is a resource without which the state as such would have been impossible. In order to keep pace with the state's ambitions to constantly offer better and more efficient services to citizens, the infrastructure needs to be continuously developed. At least as important is that the efforts are made socially soundly and on the projects that are most urgent and profitable and generate the greatest benefit while taking into account aspects such as rural areas, family life and entrepreneurship. Ertms is a standard for signal management by rail. The Swedish Democrats believe that Ertms in Sweden would not only be economically indefensible but would also be completely unnecessary. Sweden already has an adequate signalling system, and the only routes actually served by Ertms are high-speed trains with trains travelling over 250 kilometres per hour. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats want to abolish the government's commitment to the introduction of Ertms. I intend to come back to the ERTMS issue in our next debate today. Sweden has Europe's worst contact management system. 20% of all operational disruptions in rail infrastructure consist of non-powered overhead contact lines, compared with 9% in the rest of Europe. This deviation demonstrates that radical measures are necessary to ensure the supply of energy. For this reason, the Swedish Democrats, as a first step, want to EU-certified the electrical system to prevent overheads. Railway maintenance in Sweden has almost completely failed. Too much of the work consists of emergency measures instead of preventive maintenance, largely because the infrastructure has been used as a budget regulator for a long time. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats choose to invest heavily in railway maintenance in anticipation of the government's funds added after the current term of office. In order to further strengthen Swedish infrastructure, the Swedish Democrats want to introduce a special market pool to address rapidly emerging bottlenecks that stand in the way of, for example, significant business ventures. The grant will be made available by the Finnish Transport Agency, and it is in line with what has been presented by the Swedish Transport Council. The government may want to introduce a so-called kilometre tax, that is to say, a tax paid by the hauliers for each mile worked. This would mean, on top of the above mentioned factors, the coup for many Swedish hauliers, with in some cases a nearly doubling of the tax burden when it comes to traffic-specific taxes. The sv erige democrats are therefore opposed to a tax from a distance. We believe that the registration of cabotage transport should take place on arrival at our borders. The Swedish Democrats advocate an electronic system like the German LKW-Maut system for cars weighing over 12 tons. The system is based on the installation of transponders in the trucks that you want to carry out transport in Sweden, which means that the authorities can easily control the route and the number of days that a foreign car has been in the country. This ensures that charges are paid and that the driving and rest time directive is complied with. In this way, the police would have an effective tool to curb the increasing level of cheating. In the future, major efforts will also be needed in the traffic police to prosecute fraud on the roads. Since the mid-1980s, the number of traffic policemen on our roads has fallen from just over 1,800 to about 190 today. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats believe that there is a need for an increase in ambition regarding training and recruitment of specialised police officers. These, in turn, should be organised in a separate branch of the police, like the German BAG and, like their German model, be able to become fully self-sufficient in the long term. Otherwise, Mr President, I refer to the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-47	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats propose 2 billion more for railway maintenance, 1 billion for a kind of market pool and 25 0 million SEK for an ice mining operation that the state will fund. I think it would be very interesting to hear whether Per Klarberg, the Swedish Democrats, can talk about how this is to be financed. Is it that the investment of 2 billion extra you make on railway maintenance takes place at the expense of the extra investment we make at primary school in the form of fewer students in the classes, i.e. smaller groups? Is it better to have higher rail maintenance? Is it possible that the market pool will be paid by removing the housing supplement for pensioners in 2017? 800 million says in your budget that you should remove the pensioners. It sounds worthwhile with a market pot, but is it to be done at the price of removing next year's pensioner housing supplement? It is the same with regard to ice-breaking activities. SEK 250 million says Per Klarberg, the Swedish Democrats, that the state should go in and pay. What Per Klarberg does not want the state to pay is the child benefit in full. That's where you take away about 500 million. Parental insurance will be reduced by 190 million next year. How do you make this all go together?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-51	Mr President, I would like to As far as the investments mentioned by Pia Nilsson are concerned, we are in principle self-financed in terms of restructuring in the budget option for Category 22. One can read, among other things, that we are cutting down by about 2 billion on the development of the ERTMS system in Sweden. We also withdraw SEK 250 million for bicycle infrastructure. It is money that we think is much better needed in preventive maintenance. As far as the icebreaking is concerned, we think it is completely insane. A railway wagon that travels over the Öresund Bridge is not involved in paying for snow clearance on Swedish roads. Why, then, should a railway wagon travelling between Sweden and Germany, between Trelleborg and Sassnitz, pay for ice mining up in the Gulf of Bothnia? That is the reason for our effort– we want the state to go in and subsidise and pay for the icebreaking.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-54	Mr President, I would like to The restructuring you are talking about, Per Klarberg, that is, not to introduce the new Ertms signalling system, means that you still have to find the money to fix the existing ATC system. That money is not visible in your draft budget, so you will be responsible for the answer. Tell the Swedish people how it is! It is not enough for you to want to reduce child benefit, reduce primary education and remove housing allowances for pensioners. You also remove 16 billion to municipalities – 16 billion in 2017. How can this be seen as a satisfactory proposal from one of Sweden's largest opposition parties? You want to degrade the area by area, but you want $250 million for ice breaking. It's important.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-56	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Pia Nilsson has misunderstood the Ertms versus ATC. Saving 2 billion on the ERTMS system does not, in substance, mean that the ATC system is in need of an upgrade of SEK 2 billion. The ATC system in Sweden is structured and well-functioning. We have no need for any renovation of the ATC system. If we save 2 billion on the ERTMS system, it does not mean that the ATC system needs 2 billion SEK. I still argue that our budget option is the best and that we have a budget in balance.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-58	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I am the representative of the Center Party in this debate behind the budget that the Center Party has put forward in the Swedish Parliament and that we have to discuss some of. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs new leadership. Despite the fact that we are in a boom, where more jobs should emerge and employment should rise, there is an increase in division in society. There is a division between young and older people, between highly educated people and those who do not have a high school degree, and between native and foreign born. The division of the tongue is also regional. While some localities are growing and developing, other localities are suffering from reductions in the wake of globalisation and past financial crises and recessions. The government, the Social Democratic and Environmental Party supported by the Left Party, has so far proved to be quite incapable of coping with these challenges. A well-functioning transport infrastructure – roads, railways, shipping, aviation and IT – is a prerequisite for living, living, working and living throughout the country. The functioning of business transport is important to enable the country's prosperity and to ensure that there is entrepreneurship, work and education throughout the country. In terms of the important transport infrastructure, the Center Party – unlike the government – is convinced that technology development, efficiency, digitalisation, regulatory simplification, continued liberalisation and a shift to bio-based fuels mean that a growing transport effort across the country can take place without increasing environmental and climate impacts. My impression, Mr President, is that the government – the Social Democrats and the Green Party with the support of the Left Party – is thinking and discussing just the opposite. This takes the form, among other things, of an energetic investigation into massive tax shocks on distance-dependent goods and passenger transport. This is how the government wants to meet the climate challenge – in an entirely reverse way that will drive the urbanisation and exclusion of land forwarders while making the transition to bio-based fuels more difficult. Overall, it is deeply tragic. Unlike the government, the Center Party is pushing for a policy in which the national goals of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet and that all parts of the country should have the opportunity to contribute and grow are compatible goals. Mr President, I would like to In the policy of the Center Party, state infrastructure investments play an important role. They make a difference to the policy of the government. The railways, aviation, maritime transport, the national roads and the 42,000 miles of individual roads are all equally important. For the Center Party, it is also a mode of transport – the fifth mode of transport. Broadband and mobile telephony reduce distances between people and enable digital services that can replace, complement and streamline physical transport and communications over distance. This leads to productivity and technology development in the existing transport infrastructure. Therefore, Mr President, it is reasonable to talk about five modes of transport. Unlike the government, the Center Party prioritises increasing railway maintenance, increasing and accelerating new investments in transport infrastructure through alternative financing solutions and further investing in IT and broadband deployment. Since, unlike the government, the Center Party is committed to the development of the whole country, it is of the utmost importance for the Center Party that the resources invested in infrastructure are also distributed throughout the country. Passenger and freight transport on Swedish roads and railways, as well as by air and maritime transport are increasing every year. Therefore, continued efforts on maintenance are urgently needed. However, in the government's draft budget that we are currently dealing with, we note that the Government's investment in new investment in infrastructure, SEK 8.7 billion, is completely beyond the end of this term. It may be considered to be fairly defensive. In terms of maintenance and capacity increases in the existing rail system, the government is increasing by only 0.2 billion in total for 2017. That, too, cannot be considered offensive or sufficient. In order to quickly start work for a more well-functioning railway, the Center Party in its budget motion therefore proposes that an additional SEK 200 million for 2017 and SEK 300 million for 2018 be invested in railway maintenance. As mentioned earlier, the Center Party considers IT, information technology, as the fifth mode of transport, alongside the four traditional ones. The government – in addition to a huge fummel with the auctioning of the 700-megahertz band – has proved to be quite uninterested in further supporting the forces working for a better digital infrastructure and everyday life throughout the country. In order for the ongoing digitalisation of the whole of Sweden to continue, the Center Party therefore proposes that an additional SEK 1 billion be allocated for improved broadband infrastructure throughout the country. Of course, I am in favour of the Center Party's reservation 2.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-70	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Otherwise, I refer to the special opinion on the Liberals' draft budget, as we do not take part in the decision on the framework. Mr President, I would like to Liberals have other priorities and proposals compared to the government's proposals in the budget proposal for Category 22 Communications. What's missing? Road modes are currently considered rail, road, aviation and maritime transport. Policy decisions and government action and accounting in the transport sector follow this model. But cycling is not regarded as a traffic mode. The fact that cycling is not a traffic type affects goals, means and follow-up. Cycling is about transport, but also about public health. We can see that, for example, the proportion of children who cycle is now falling. We in the Liberals believe that there is a need for an additional type of traffic and that cycling should be regarded as such. There is a need for collective and new knowledge about how cyclism will develop. Knowledge needs to be gathered so that everyone can take part in the knowledge situation. We therefore allocate l0 million SEK to create a competence centre at national level, where competence and knowledge can be developed. We also believe that there should be a bicycle ambassador, who should coordinate efforts at national level. We therefore want a national competence centre – a secretariat – for collective knowledge and best practice. We also allocate SEK 75 million annually in a national grant for bicycle infrastructure. The number of km has decreased between 2014 and 2015. In addition, we want congestion taxes and value recovery models in municipalities to be used also for measures relating to regional cycle paths and pedestrians. In addition, there are of course funds in county plans and in municipalities. We also want to invest SEK 5 million per year in the IT sector and digital development, with skills development and the possibility of agile agreements, and SEK 15 million in older people's participation. Mr President, I would like to Follow-up in committees is important. What are the targets? What are the indicators for monitoring progress? Is the trend moving in the direction you want? Follow-up may also lead to clearer objectives. The objectives can be linked to the funds. It is an important democratic principle to be able to see and monitor the use of tax funds and also to make proposals for other priorities. There is development potential in the Government's budget proposal. The transparency of the proposals relating to infrastructure and maintenance needs to be increased. The committee's follow-up group has views on the government's performance report and overall assessments. The structure can be improved to clarify the reporting of results. This is reflected in Liberal reservation 1. We in the Liberals also want to make more efforts to both increase funding and, for example, improve the environment. We would like to see charges for studded tyres – rather charges than bans. In these days with snow cannons and ice shakes, we would like to stress the importance of road safety and charging systems being able to go hand in hand. We have had the Swedish Parliament's investigation service investigate what the Norwegian model would mean for Sweden. We would like to see fees paid in the three metropolitan regions. The money can be returned for environmental measures in Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg. It shall be a voluntary scheme. We want to increase road safety, not least for public transport passengers and cyclists. Mr President, I would like to It costs to build infrastructure. Funding is therefore crucial for how much infrastructure society is able to build. Financing infrastructure by investing mainly in government funding is the wrong way to go. We in the Liberals want to see more OPS solutions, but also OPS solutions that are developed in different models. You should look at how long the agreements can be, how user charges can be used and how the state's participation should look like. Internationally, the models are used to create more infrastructure, and we believe that Sweden should also continue along this path in some cases. These are contractual issues. Mr President, I would like to Co-planning of housing and infrastructure is incredibly important. We believe that further efforts are needed to make this possible. The responsible work, Trafikverket, must be given a clear responsibility for co-planning. We allocate SEK 2 million for this work so that also infrastructure planning and housing construction really go hand in hand. We also allocate SEK 100 million more for broadband expansion, which is an important issue for rural and sparsely populated areas. Mr President, I would like to Liberals want to equip and expand the rail and road network. There we also allocate more funds from 2018. However, we reject certain issues relating to, for example, the urban environment agreements. Mr President, I would like to Travel itself is not the problem; it is the effects of travel on the climate and the environment that need to be addressed. There, Sweden can contribute through research and innovation.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-85	Mr President, I would like to The debate is about different initiatives on communications in the coming years. The Christian Democrats have their own distribution model with 41 own proposals to make the infrastructure more accessible, robust, safe and secure. Not least, we propose measures to strengthen Swedish competitiveness in order to make it possible to live and work in different parts of the country. The goal is for the whole of Sweden to live. Mr President, I would like to The haulage industry in Sweden is currently exposed to tough, unhealthy competition. The cheating is widespread and must be taken very seriously. Miserable operators who ignore cabotage rules knock out serious players on the market. Since 1 July this year, it is possible to trample vehicles for which a penalty fee has not been paid for infringements of the cabotage rules, but vehicles may only be trampled for 24 hours. The Christian Democrats want to tighten up the rules and propose that vehicles should be able to trample for more than 24 hours to stop the cheating. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to allow heavier and longer freight trains as well as heavier and longer lorries. It will reduce emissions, while increasing the efficiency of freight transport. In the budget bill, the government has opened up to introduce a kilometre tax. That makes me very worried. I am concerned about jobs and the competitiveness of business. Trucks account for 90% of domestic goods transport in Sweden. For a truck company that runs timber, it will cost half a million a year for each truck. The total cost to the industry is estimated to be around 5 billion. Often there is no alternative to the truck. To tax freight is to tax the entire haulage industry. In the end, the consumer pays the price. The investigation should immediately be put in the trash. Mr President, I would like to The government is not on the lazy side to impair Swedish business. Recently, there was an investigation into a national airline tax, a flight tax that risks reducing travel by over 1.2 million trips per year and costs 7 000 – 10 000 jobs. It affects the tourism industry, the work commuting and many small and large companies. Many regional airports may be forced to close. With one hand in the budget, the government spends SEK 82 million on regional airports to survive, but at the same time presents a national air tax of about SEK 2 billion, which will take out regional airports. That's the wrong way to go. Aviation tax is hitting the Swedish economy hard and hampers growth in the country. The Christian Democrats say no to national air taxes. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is the world's second best country for innovation, according to the Global Innovation Index. The automotive industry is facing a new era. Fossil emissions have to be down to zero over time, and the electric car is needed. For safer and more efficient transport, autonomous cars are also needed. The Christian Democrats want Sweden to be at the forefront even when it comes to self-governing cars and electric cars. That is why we want the government to develop two strategies, one for autonomous vehicles and one for electric cars. Mr President, I would like to The electric car is on the rise, and that is very positive. If people and companies are to dare to invest in electric vehicles, they need to be able to recharge. The Christian Democrats therefore propose an investment of SEK 125 million per year in addition to the Government's investment for the expansion of the charging infrastructure. We are also proposing a change to the Pump Act. Today, the operator of a service station has to sell an alternative fuel, but the alternative fuel must not be electricity. We Christian Democrats want to remove the exemption for electricity in the Pump Act. Every gas station in Sweden can then become a charging station. We propose a bonus – Malus system for passenger cars. This should be the same as proposed by the 2030 Secretariat. Mr President, I would like to More and more people see the bike as a useful means of transport. This has good effects on public health, the environment and urban congestion. However, today the traffic environment is not sufficiently adapted for cycling. Unfortunately, when other categories of road users suffer fewer deaths and fewer serious accidents than before, the development is less favourable for cyclists. The Christian Democrats invest extra resources for an increased and safe cycling. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to mention the need to remedy the neglected maintenance of the railways. Everyone agrees that more people should travel collectively and that more goods should be transported by rail and shipping. It is necessary if we are to reduce CO2 emissions and move towards a more fossil-dependent transport sector. The two main tracks, which served us well, are built in the mid - 1800's and are not enough anymore. The railways lack both capacity and quality, and they need to be better maintained. Therefore, we invest Christian Democrats SEK 1.24 billion per year in maintenance during the period 2016 – 2018 and then increase the investment to SEK 3.7 billion in 2019 and SEK 5 billion in 2020. With this, Mr President, I refer to the special opinion of the Christian Democrats.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-100	Mr President, I would like to It was a news item I heard in Robert Halef's speech that I must take the opportunity to ask about. Did Robert Halef mean to have charging poles in all places where petrol and diesel are sold today? Well, that's interesting news. The Pump Act signals that we cannot rely on 100% fossil fuel, which I think is a wise approach. Or rather, the Pump Act was wise when it was introduced, but, as far as I know, all applications for exemption from it are being granted today because we are moving to completely new instruments to increase the share of renewables in sales. Several of us are b a came some sort of orderly transition via reduction obligation instead of focusing on other instruments. Is it correct to understand that electricity poles in rural areas are what should cater for the mobility of the rural population in the Christian Democrats' vision?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-103	Mr President, I would like to Karin limits our view on how to build the infrastructure for the challenges we have today and the challenges we will face in the future. With only charging poles, we will not deal with CO2 emissions. We are investing 125 million more than the government is doing precisely on the expansion of charging infrastructure. We want to encourage more people to buy electric hybrids and so on. But let me answer your question about the Power and Pump Act, Karin. Today, electricity is not classified as alternative fuels. If we change the law, most or all petrol stations around the country will be able to have charging poles for electric hybrids, which will stimulate more to buy electric cars, which are more environmentally friendly.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-106	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Halef, for the enlightening answer! Both the Green Party and the entire cooperation government are in favour of increased electrification of the transport system. Above all, we stand for electrification by wanting more transport by rail, which is an almost entirely electrified transport system. We also believe that in cities, especially for reasons of air quality and noise, there will be more electrified transport. But to be as visionary as the Christian Democrats and say that there should be charging poles at the country merchants, so far I don't think the Green Party can reach. My knowledge of the country merchants' economy tells me that it is hardly possible to impose on them a requirement to set up charging poles. The entire pumping act is so designed that you get a waiver. The less turnover you have, the easier it is, and you will not be liable. The merchants have problems with survival at all. To then require them to have charging poles would turn away the legs of the service in rural areas that I think many of those who live there think is important. So I do not think that part is very realistic. The cooperation government is responsible for the big strings, to invest in rail, urban agreements and bicycle strategies, which we put in focus. If in Sweden there are 5,000 electric cars of the total fleet of 4.5 million cars, it is probably a blow in the air – or a blow in the sky; what do I know? – to set up charging poles at the country merchants today. Excuse me.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-109	Mr President, I would like to I would suggest that Karin Svensson Smith read the pump act properly. Today, electricity is not an alternative as fuel. Look at the pump teams! It really needs to be changed in order for us to ensure that there are enough charging poles throughout Sweden. There are many petrol stations that are strategically located. A gas station today has electricity; it is only about making it possible to classify electricity as alternative fuel under the Pump Act. Then it applies to the other pieces, which you were in on, Karin. We invest as much as the government in the maintenance of railways. We are in favour of introducing bonuses – Malus systems. We are in favour of working with the development of new biofuels. And we are in favour of various initiatives regarding how we can get more goods transported by rail and shipping. It is, for example, a question of investing more in inland waterway infrastructure. We have many more suggestions that I did not have time to read out during the six minutes I had. It is not that the whole proposal stands and falls with the charging poles. But we think that the charging poles are important in order to be able to push on so that more people buy electric cars instead of driving with petrol-powered cars.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-112	Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations. I would like to begin the speech by giving us a topicality. In what situation do we stand here and debate today, 12 December 2016? Today you can read a column by Johan Rockström in Dagens i ndustri. I will quote something that for me is a setting of what we are going to talk about here. Johan Rockström states:中 We hit the ceiling for the maximum temperature of the earth since the last ice age. There are no more ecosystems and finite resources we can use to deliver to our economy in the short term, without risking the welfare of future generations. ..................................................... What we have before us are extreme heat waves, droughts, floods, new diseases and food and water crises, and new flows of refugees as a result. What is the shock and the theme both in this chronicle and in the chronicles of Science Radio yesterday is the heat wave in the Arctic. It has been used to the ice lying down in September. Now it's 20 degrees warmer than it should be. The sea ice hasn't wanted to go to bed. We don't know what that means. We do not know whether it will be permanent and what will follow. There are various speculations about ocean currents and other things that can give anyone the creeps. We write in our report that we need indicators to follow up on this. It is not just the research group in the Transport Committee but the whole committee that says that we need to know a little more clearly what is the effect of what we are doing. We have pointed it out, and we are doing it again. You have to see what it looks like. What about climate impact in Sweden? Yes, domestic transport is reported. But if you also take foreign transport, you can unfortunately see that the climate impact is increasing. Foreign flights by air have increased a great deal. Truck transport is increasing. Car sales have hit the roof. Then you might ask: ‘ Should you give up when you hear such depressing facts in relation to the whole thing? No, I think you should do what you did in the school debate. One can well discuss how wise the PISA measurements are, but they give some kind of comparability both between countries and between years. And the measurements have led to a serious discussion about what the state is and what we can do to make things better. Then we have to work systematically to improve the situation in order to improve school outcomes. So I think we can sum up how the cooperation government wants to address the issue of the climate impact of transport infrastructure. It is about systematic and long-term work where we must both make it more expensive to destroy the climate and offer people good alternatives. One overall objective of the whole of transport policy is to meet the accessibility target within the context of the objective of accessibility. The objective of consideration is a summary of the environment, climate, health and more. We will ensure that people have good opportunities to move around but without destroying what is the condition for life itself. Then what are we doing? Yes, we are committed to urban development agreements. Let's go for climate action. A national cycle strategy is being prepared. Cycling is definitely a form of transport of its own – as we have said in committee. The strategy is being prepared in the Government Office. We invest in, prepare and investigate air taxes and road wear taxes. We'll bet more on the railroad. This is the only way in which a sustainable transport system that does not have a negative impact on the climate can be systematically achieved in due course. Then what's the Alliance doing? I haven't heard so far that you deny the climate impact-- I don't think you do. You have also said nothing against the ambition, as Stefan Löfven expressed, that Sweden should become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Sometimes you say that you were the first with the concept of fossil fuel-independent transport sector. That's good. At least then we can agree on the long-term objective. However, in order to achieve this goal, some measures must also be agreed upon. As far as I know, several of you are saying: No, urban agreements are not a good idea; we do not have that in our budget. We have doubts about climate change. Flight tax – no, that is to be solved at international level. Road wear tax – no, you should not pit transport modes against each other. Unfortunately, however, that is the harsh reality. What if you went to school and said, "We're going to have more of all the school stuff?" We're not gonna pit them against each other. What would the school day be like for the students? It is exactly the same in the transport sector. In order for the more sustainable modes of transport to develop and receive the funding they need, it is indeed necessary to finance it by reducing investments for those modes of transport that have a negative impact on the climate.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-123	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that I share the concern about the climate, global weather systems and our common future on this globe that Karin Svensson Smith recently expressed. I think there are many who are responsible for this concern. But we can take it down to the concrete measures that Karin Svensson Smith indicated. The cooperation government, with the support of the Left Party, justifies the introduction of mileage taxes for heavy vehicles and air taxes on the environment in ongoing or recent investigations. We can then look at a distance-based road wear charge, a kilometre tax on vehicles. It risks being completely counterproductive. The biofuels that we are actually boiling – what we want to put in our thoughts instead of fossil fuels – are in danger of not coming to industry because there is the wrong incentive. According to its own investigation, the airline tax has an almost non-existent environmental impact. Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Karin Svensson Smith. Here it is about tax shocks of 10 – 15 billion SEK a year for Swedish employees and Swedish companies. What really drives the cooperation government's ambitions around these two measures? They are disguised as being about the environment, but in my view it is more about tax increases.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-128	Mr President, I would like to What drives us is that we have followed the experience of other countries with regard to distance-based charging for lorry traffic. In Europe, Switzerland was the first country to introduce this, in 2001. It wasn't done because they're environmental extremists. They saw with sadness how perhaps there was less snow on the glaciers. The country was soiled. They took care of their Alps. I think that was the main reason for this introduction, and there is a great deal of support for having fairly high kilometres of taxes on truck traffic. The revenue from these truck charges has been used to build railway tunnels. Anyone who today brings a truck to Switzerland is faced with the choice to either drive up a railway or pay the toll. Most people choose to drive up on the railway. This has also been expanded, as revenues have increased. I believe that we in the Cooperation Government are trying to see it as rationally. Not only can you expand what is good, but you can also make sure that what burns oil is more expensive. If we in Sweden had the same tax system for motorism as for air traffic, petrol might cost SEK 4 per litre. Anyone can understand that it would then be even more difficult to reach the climate targets. You have to bite the sour apple and be honest with people-- I think they can take it. We will do it as well as possible so that people can move around without adversely affecting the climate. But then it must also be more expensive not to do the same.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-132	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party shares the concerns about the climate and the environment. But for us, there are other ways forward, which embrace more transport, more human contacts and more exchange between countries and between people in different parts of a country. We're pointing to the biofuel. We're pointing at the electricity. We point to transport efficiency. We point to the recent agreement signed by the United Nations Organisation on how to reduce emissions from aviation. The comparison with Switzerland was interesting. Does Karin Svensson Smith mean that we will build rail to the Swedish forests in order to produce the forest fuel and the forest raw materials that create prosperity in our country? The forest is, of course, the Swedish industry that gives the largest export net for our well-being. The future of Karin Svensson Smiths and the cooperation government is thus a vast railway system out into the Swedish forest. In this way, the aim is to replace lorry transport with rail transport. It is in the forest industry and construction industry that the massive, large and many transports go, Svensson Smith! As far as aviation is concerned, I have said before – and we both know this – that the investigation concluded that the net effect of the air tax presented last week was so modest that it possibly corresponds to smoking and New Year fireworks in our country. There must be better methods if the environment is the driving force behind this massive tax shock, which strikes at wage earners, companies and the ability of the whole country to live and develop. It's about a lot of money. It's serious. We have to use the right control methods, Svensson Smith. What is the driving force when the effects are so modest?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-138	Mr President, I would like to I think I notice a certain inconsistency in Anders Åkesson's speech. One cannot at first say that the air tax is so marginal that it is barely noticeable and then talk about a tax shock. You have to decide which leg to stand on. What this will look like, I would like to wait until the referral is completed and this is prepared for the Government Office. I find it a bit tragic that the Centre does not note that there are two other modes of transport that are well suited to transport goods. What the cooperation government stands for in terms of investment, we are going to debate in connection with the next report, a little later today. It is a rational proposal for new main lines and branches of regional rail. We also have shipping. Sweden has a long coastline and 52 ports, which are currently used far too little compared to other countries that have access to shipping. In Central Europe, inland waterways are used much more. The aim of a wear and tear tax is precisely what is stated in the EU White Paper: that long-distance lorry transport should be more involved in rail and maritime transport. It is not said that short-distance transport should be transferred to rail and maritime transport. Of course, I am well aware that we are not getting either rail or shipping for logging in the forest. Of the transports that roll in Skåne, 78 percent only go straight through Skåne. They have neither the start nor the goal there without burdening the road system, with accidents and climate impact as a result. Some of them would be moved to shipping or rail if a road wear tax were introduced. This tax is as rational as the congestion charge in Stockholm.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-144	Mr President, I would like to Now we recognize Karin Svensson Smith in the rhetoric. We were standing here just now – she stressed that all types of traffic were needed, including roads and cars. Karin Svensson Smith now states that we must introduce airline tax, mileage tax and one with the other. Then I wonder why the Green Party is opposed to any proposal to make our road transport more efficient. The Alliance government began an important work on electric roads, which the new government has now opened, for example in Gävle – an important reform to streamline our truck transport and ensure that emissions are reduced. I have never heard the Green Party mention this or beat a blow to it. To an even greater extent, we can talk about heavy goods vehicles, which Finland already introduced in 2013. These make it possible to reduce emissions per tonne transported by 10 per cent and also improve the possibilities for a hard hit Swedish haulage industry. Among other Social Democrats in the electoral movement said that this was something that was really needed, but since then we have heard nothing. I rarely hear – not to say never – Karin Svensson Smith beat a punch for this type of efficiency improvements in truck transport. Then it seems to be against truck transport at all – otherwise it would surely be positive if we could reduce emissions on our roads. In a country like Sweden – a country with long distances, where we cannot draw rails into every forest clearing – this kind of reform should be endorsed. We have heard in this House in the past that there would be a proposal with a proposal on heavy goods vehicles. It was supposed to come this spring, but I have not yet heard anything about what has happened to this bill. Can Karin Svensson Smith perhaps find out how she looks at the heavy trucks, how she views the electric roads and if there are any other proposals from the government parties?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-149	Mr President, I would like to There is a legislative referral of up to 74 tonnes of heavy goods vehicles and, as far as I know, it is prepared in the Government Office. However, that preparation is not finished, and as long as it is not finished, I do not wish to comment on it either. However, I would very much like to improve the efficiency of the transport system. It is about finding an effective distribution between road, rail and maritime. Without highlighting me, I would argue that the cooperation government is much closer to European directives – and further away from Swedish specific solutions – than the Moderates do. You usually point out that you want international solutions to problems, as you have said, for example, with regard to aviation. As far as transport is concerned, the EU White Paper clearly states that, in order to cope with the capacity and climate problems, long-distance truck transport needs to be moved to rail and maritime transport to a greater extent. That is the kind of efficiency improvements that we support above all. Every mode of transport must also be as effective as possible. For example, materials have been developed to use longer and heavier trains in Sweden. This is partly about strengthening the railways, partly about switches, brake rules, bypass tracks and so on. Compared to the rest of Europe, we have the longest trucks and the shortest trains, which may seem strange if Sweden should be the forerunner when it comes to becoming a fossil-free welfare country. We are very much in favour of this. As far as electricity is concerned, we are in favour of technology and development. However, there is an electric freight system where you do not need platooni ng, because a freight train with 40 wagons has a completely low energy consumption per tonne transported. There is no need for platooning or electrification, because electricity is already there. We believe that it is better to invest in what exists and works well, even if you are also going to research for the future.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-154	Mr President, I would like to I also think it is wise to expand our Swedish railway. I doubt, however, that the government has money to build both high-speed trains in southern Sweden for 230 billion and to build railway rails all the way into every northern forest clearing. I believe that even the cooperation government does not get that economy together, no matter how creative it tries to count. We can therefore see the need for other modes of transport. Karin Svensson Smith is pleased to hear that we in the alliance parties want global agreements when it comes to aviation, for example. But that is quite reasonable, Mr President, when we note something like what my colleague Anders Åkesson did just now, that is to say that the government's own investigation notes that the effects of, for example, a national aviation tax are marginal for the climate but that the costs for people, businesses and competitiveness are high. Karin Svensson Smith has a colleague, Karolina Skog, Minister for the Environment, who expressed herself in the media a while ago and said that global agreements for aviation are better than national special rules. I think that was very wise of her. Then I thought: What a good thing when ICAO, the international aviation organisation, has now come to a global agreement for aviation as a first step. Then perhaps this government would choose to go that way instead of individual national penal taxes that strike at jobs and growth. Then I can ask Karin Svensson Smith : Do you intend to proceed with a flight tax that obviously does not get the environmental impact that you want but hits on jobs and growth? Or does the government intend to listen to its own environmental-partisan minister who has just said that global agreements for aviation are better than national special taxes?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-158	Mr President, I would like to The cooperation government works locally, globally and nationally. We do not want to save any effort that can be made at ICAO meetings. I know that we were well represented there and tried to get a sufficiently sharp international agreement on aviation. Unfortunately, though, it was not sharp enough. It takes time before it enters into force, and it is simply a matter of compensating in principle for the emissions that are already being made. If we are to have a national goal that is higher, that is, that Sweden should become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries, we must complement the global agreements with national instruments that make what we say have any credibility whatsoever. In fact, it was the alliance government that coined the concept of fossil fuel independence, and I think the former Prime Minister took the climate issue seriously. Fossil fuel independence, we in the cooperation government now want to make more of a workshop by finding both the infrastructure and the charges that enable us to meet accessibility within the framework of the consideration objective: that people and goods can move around without destroying the climate. Then Europe is a reality, and in a world in which most people want to give up their relationship with each other, I believe that we should safeguard European rules. The EU White Paper on the distribution of goods is a very good one. Sweden has exceptions to truck regulations. We must try to find a balance so that we do not have to cross with the outside world on just every issue. Then we try to find instruments that enable us to live up to both global goals and our own ambitions to become fossil fuel independent.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-162	Mr President, I would like to We were able to hear Karin Svensson's Smiths's commitment here in the introduction, a commitment that we also share, in environmental and climate issues and in the fact that, as it was said, there are no more ecosystems. We are now also discussing transport issues, and usually there is a great deal of focus on, not least, roads, railways and public transport. The Liberals' proposal is to really sharpen transport policy and actually invest in bicycle infrastructure, skills and knowledge transfer, but I note that all these proposals are rejected. As Karin Svensson Smith says, there is an announcement about a bicycle strategy, and we are waiting for it with great excitement. At the same time, however, there are many other things that could be done pending the strategy. The committee was recently informed about, for example, the need to increase knowledge and the fact that knowledge is not collected at national level. We can note that the knowledge available is out as islands at municipal level. If knowledge is not transferred, there is a risk in many different contexts of repeating the mistakes instead of focusing on best practice and what can be done. I think that would be remarkable in terms of the environmental and climate objectives. Cycling could contribute as a mode of transport, because there are a lot of people commuting to work or studying with a bicycle. Therefore, my question to Karin Svensson Smith is: why are all the proposals rejected? Is there anything in the proposals, which is perhaps not part of the national strategy, which Karin Smith thinks should be taken on board? Parliament and the committee have the opportunity to go ahead. Is this the case, and is it possible?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-167	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for letting me talk about bikes! It's especially close to my heart. I have a visual defect that means I don't have a driver's license for a car, so bike is my mode of transport. My commitment has not been revived since I ended up in Parliament. It's a question you can work on locally. The cycle highway that is being prepared between Malmö and Lund took me and Karolina Skog the initiative when we were both municipal politicians, she in Malmö and I in Lund. As far as the national proposals are concerned, a cycle strategy is being prepared at the Government Office, and many of the measures that Nina Lundström addresses may be proposed within this framework. But I don't want to talk about it until it's finished. However, there is one thing Nina Lundström said that I can directly say that I sympathise with. It was because of the accounting we received when the VTI visited us in committee, namely that there is an urgent need to gather knowledge of what measures are actually effective in increasing the share of cycling. I think that is needed, but if it should then be done via a mission to Vinnova or VTI or how it should be done is a little bit outside my reach. It is a question of bordering on research issues. But perhaps we can speak on this together when we receive the research proposal for an opinion in the Committee on Transport. Speaking of congestion, I would like to remind you of an important thing that we red-greens have done, namely the introduction of congestion charges in Stockholm. And I cannot recall that the Liberals, when the People's Party, were particularly pro-active in this matter. I'm afraid you were opposed. If you ask the cyclists in Stockholm, I think they would not have liked to be tamped with even more cars, which would have been the case if your line on the congestion charge issue in Stockholm had become a reality.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-172	Mr President, I would like to No, I understand that Karin Svensson Smith cannot comment on exactly what comes from the government in terms of the bicycle strategy, but there is still an opportunity for the committee to take initiatives in future managements. As we heard from VTI, there is a need for some form of competence centres at national level. Attempts have been made, but the projects have been rejected. At the same time, the government, where the Green Party is located, is investing on other missions to VTI, for example, as it also says in our actions. It is about public transport, for example, and that is a good thing. But much more can be done. Sweden differs from some other countries in terms of the need to gather expertise. We need to develop skills and research, and it is about road safety and much more. It is then a little interesting that the only ones who actually conduct research and acquire knowledge at the moment are insurance companies. The reason is that there are a number of accidents every year with cyclists and that they want to find opportunities for preventive work. There is a great deal more that can be done. Liberals have proposed that congestion charges can also be used for bicycle measures, which we think would be excellent. It remains to be asked: Is Karin Svensson Smith prepared, through the work of the committee and the Riksdag, to strengthen bicycle policy? There's that possibility. The committee has been active in the past, and if there are no more proposals from the government, there is an opportunity to act here. We have a lot of proposals that we can deal with in the future. But the interesting thing is what Karin Svensson Smith herself is prepared to contribute to. Will Karin Svensson Smith help us to develop the concrete cycling measures so that cycling becomes a separate mode of transport?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-177	Mr President, I would like to Of course I am prepared to work for this, but the actual implementation is not really in the remit of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. I contributed very much to our announcement of a national cycling strategy, that the bike should be its own mode of transport and that adult cyclists should be given the authority to choose where to cycle for themselves, so I do not shy away from any of what is needed. The Liberals here, via you, Nina, give a serious impression of wanting to bet on a bicycle, and I agree 100% with your plea for the need to gather knowledge and have research. I think that in your motion you are saying no to the urban environment agreements is counterproductive. If you are a cyclist, you want cities to invest more in public transport and bicycles and less in cars to dominate in terms of accessibility. We have taken on board local authorities' criticism of the nature of the urban environment agreements, so in future they will also be able to finance measures for bicycles. This is a concrete thing that the cooperation government has decided on, although we are not finished with the cycle strategy. It opens up the urban environment agreements to bicycle investments. Then it is tragic that in your budget you want to remove the urban environment agreements. I think that the urban environment agreements are an excellent measure, in which we can co-finance what they need in order to make it easier for people to cycle and travel collectively in the cities without managing the municipalities in detail.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-182	Mr President, I would like to In the six-minute speech by Karin, I lacked some areas, and I wonder if the Green Party lacks policy in these areas. I'll mention a few, and Karin will comment on that. I did not hear anything about investments in broadband expansion, electric roads, self-driving cars, safer railings for motorcyclists, stricter rules for the use of drones, an eastern connection in Stockholm, longer freight trains and so on. Mr President, I would like to The reason I asked for a reply to Karin is because she beats her chest and crams for the tax increase on domestic flights. The regions depend on regional airports. They are of great importance for the development of the regions. Karin represents the government, and Sweden has, through the government, asked the EU for an exemption in order to get extra funding of 82 million in state resources so that regional airports can survive. But as a representative of the government, Karin is now advocating a tax increase of 2 billion on domestic flights. It's going to disappear 10,000 jobs. How will these people be able to operate in different parts of the country with this tax increase that you drive so hard, Karin?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-187	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it is physically possible to touch on all transport policy issues in six minutes. Longer and heavier trains I have had the opportunity to talk about in the speaker's chair in this debate. What I miss among the things you listed and which are urgent are our ambitions in terms of broadband and digitalisation. I myself wrote the bill about it for everyone when the then red-green majority decided that it is important for people to have access to broadband so that computers work at reasonably high speeds in their homes and that there is widespread coverage for mobile telephony. We are not satisfied, but I know that the government is preparing major reforms in this area. It is true that not all infrastructure is physical; it can also be digital. I don't think we're in lee here. Sweden is still a country with high accessibility, and we have the ambition to make it even better. I was there myself when the House decided to introduce a flight tax. That was before the 2006 elections. Then we had a differentiation of the tax in three different steps. How the airline tax will be designed this time I have no opportunity whatsoever to comment on. The investigation is submitted for referral, and then it will be prepared. Let me reiterate that our intention is for accessibility to be met, but without squeezing at the objectives of consideration and the possibility of reducing oil dependence in Sweden.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-194	Mr President, I would like to It has now come to the conclusion that in six minutes we cannot draw up all the budget proposals we have. That's what you suggested in your line shift with me, Karin Svensson Smith. I raised this to indicate that we can refer to our proposal if we want to go further into our questions. Mr President, I would like to It has been found in an analysis of the analysis company WSP that up to 10,000 jobs will disappear with the airline tax. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has also come to this conclusion. We know that the environmental impact is global. Karin knows that a few months ago there was an international agreement in the United Nations Aviation Organization ICAO to reduce emissions. There is also an agreement within the EU to constantly reduce the number of allowances to tackle aviation emissions. Nevertheless, Karin and the government want to impose on domestic flights a flight tax that will force most of our regional airports to close. Thousands of people will be out of work. The problem is rather a lack of biofuels for aviation. Innovation and development must ensure that there are sufficient efficient engines and good availability of biofuels so that aviation can also assume its responsibilities in terms of emissions. One cannot just tax this industry and believe that it will be dealt with. What answer do you, Karin, have to the 10,000 families who are affected by the tax and are out of work?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-200	Mr President, I would like to We need to raise the debate on climate and jobs at a higher level. Today we have a transport system that is largely driven by imported oil. 78 per cent of Sweden's oil imports go to the transport sector. It may be interesting to note that 60% of oil comes from Russia, and we may not feel very secure with that supply in the long term. There are strong reasons for our transport supply to be more dependent on the energy we can generate ourselves. It is an overall focus of the cooperation government, and one of the things we think about when we say that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. We have a lot of forest raw materials. We have lots of technology for the extraction of biogas – sewage and biological waste are available in all Swedish municipalities – and Sweden is the world leader in using this technology to digest biogas. We have the automotive industry. We have exactly everything that is needed to enable us to have a transport system that operates on raw materials we have in Sweden to a greater extent. We have hydro power so we can have fossil-free electricity. I believe that this would provide many more jobs in Sweden than if we continue to have a transport system that is largely dependent on imported oil.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-205	Mr President, I would like to Track change Gothenburg– Alingsås, contact line change Laxå– Falköping, reinforced tunnels in Stockholm, track change Boden– Saunaträsk and track change Tillberga– Ransta – only some of the maintenance measures that have become possible thanks to the government's increased resources for railway maintenance. This is an extra 2 billion in two years, and the investments will continue in the coming years. So, Mr President, I am proud. Whether you are working commutes, visiting relatives and friends or buying a freight transport service, you should be able to rely on the railway to deliver. We're not there yet. A great deal of work remains to be done, so I am not entirely satisfied, Mr President. But in a Social Democratic-led government, there is nothing called giving up. On the contrary! Work on improving punctuality, increasing confidence and improving the quality of the infrastructure we have continues unabated. Robustness and trust will increase. Mr President, I would like to The government parties and the Left Party have decided to allocate SEK 55 billion to the infrastructure area next year. It is about the same amount of money that the government receives in two years' revenue from the alcohol and tobacco tax. Why, then, are we making this big effort? There are at least three reasons: The overall objective of transport policy is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. The Riksdag has decided so. The government's assessment of developments so far shows both positive and negative trends. It is positive that accessibility has improved for the population in metropolitan regions and for people with disabilities. The conditions for choosing public transport, walking and cycling have also increased. It is also positive that fewer people are killed or seriously injured in traffic and that the share of renewable energy in the transport system continues to increase. On the other hand, it is negative that accessibility has decreased slightly for the population in sparsely populated areas, that gender equality in the transport system still shows significant differences and that greenhouse gas emissions remained unchanged in 2015. The Government's ambition is for Sweden to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries, and then further measures will be required. Mr President, I would like to An important climate decision taken by the government is the urban environment agreements. Since 2015, SEK 500 million has been allocated each year that municipalities and county councils can apply for grants from. This could include investments in streets, tracks, quays or stops. The government thus supports local and regional public transport initiatives that citizens are calling for and which contribute to a sustainable urban environment and increased housing construction. Next year we will strengthen with an additional SEK 250 million, and then measures for an increase in cycling will also be covered. Mr President, I would like to The IT issues are another priority. The goal is for us to be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation, and Sweden is at the forefront. But many other countries are fast approaching and soon catching up. It is time to step up, as my colleague Teres Lindberg says, and Teres will develop this further in his speech shortly. And, Mr President, what would Sweden be without strong and competitive shipping? The government has now taken another step to strengthen Swedish shipping by introducing the long-awaited tonnage tax. This means that shipping companies have to pay tax on their actual tonnage, regardless of profits or losses. Hopefully we will now have more Swedish-flagged ships in the merchant fleet. Finally, Mr President, Sweden is doing well. More people are working. Fewer are unemployed. More housing is being built. Well-being is strengthened. The government invests heavily in what builds Sweden. With the Swedish model as a basis and modernisation as a tool, we invest in our common community building, where a sustainable infrastructure has its given place, where major investments in railway maintenance has its given place and where trimming measures on designated freight routes – rail change on the route Jönköping– Nässjö, track change on the route Vislanda– Mosselund and many other objects – have its given place. I support the committee's proposal.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-220	Mr President, I would like to It was a beautiful speech, Pia Nilsson. There was barely one maintenance operation that was not mentioned. Perhaps, for the sake of order, we should remind the honourable Member and the colleague in the Committee on Transport and Tourism that it was an alliance budget in one of the two years of great effort that was mentioned. I am surprised that Pia Nilsson did not, in a word, touch on order in truck traffic. It is an extremely topical theme, with the disorder of unfair competition and so on. The Social Democrats tend to use unfair competition as an argument for introducing a distance-based kilometre tax in our country. The environmental argument also exists, but we have already dismissed this in the discussion, as the environmental impact is, at best, almost non-existent and, at worst, directly counterproductive against the ambition to switch to bio-based. We have also touched on the tax on flights. There, the Left Party has found an area of expenditure today, and that is a bit interesting. Order and order are important. I would like to ask Pia Nilsson, who is the group leader of the Social Democrats in the Committee on Transport and Tourism: how would a distance-based road wear and tear tax of SEK 10 billion a year for Swedish industry contribute to order and order when it comes to unfair competition practices?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-225	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue and an important area raised by Anders Åkesson. If it is something that the government has taken very seriously, it is precisely order and order of our ways. We are seeing large-scale illegal cabotage traffic today, where we have had to react considerably more strongly than previous governments have done. During the two years that we have governed Sweden, we have taken a variety of measures. We have, among other things, introduced a sanction fee of SEK 40 000 and clapping for 24 hours, and it is now being investigated whether we can proceed. The measures have been effective, according to traffic police around the country, and it feels of course very good. The road user tax is another way of trying to overcome illegal cabotage and allows us to promote and promote the important Swedish haulage industry. We do not really have an answer to how the tax will be designed today, and we have also had an extended investigation period. I think that is good, because we have to make sure that this is right and right from the beginning and that we do it together with Swedish haulage industry. This can be an important piece of the puzzle in the work to reduce illegal cabotage traffic. We see many foreign drivers living under slave-like conditions and hauliers who do not comply at all with the rules that have been decided in the EU. This is a very important area for us, and it will be interesting to see what proposals the investigation lands in.
i-P75qLRguyYmSBLZX74LsqV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Pia Nilsson! Pia Nilsson belongs to the cooperation government, which, with the support of the Left Party, governs this country, and has a reasonably greater understanding of the work of the investigation than we have in the opposition. It has been mentioned in this context that part of the fee would consist of a fee of SEK 1 – 2 mil for setting up about 400 control cameras around the country, which would somehow keep track of the truck movements. Personally, I am extremely doubtful as to whether this has any effect whatsoever, especially as we put significant amounts of our common resources on the police, the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and the Swedish Customs Agency. Mr President, I would like to Wouldn't it be better to use already set aside resources for order in society for the job they are going to do, instead of imposing a fee of 10 to 12 billion dollars a year on the haulage industry? Is there not, as Pia Nilsson sees it, a risk that we would rather raise the cost floor for everyone? But with regard to the difference in costs between those who behave properly and those who abuse their employees and the system, we could rather put more pressure on costs, so that we can push those who actually behave and their obligations towards society and their employees aside. With regard to illegal cabotage charges, comments and information have recently been made that State Postnord is particularly active in this context at the subcontracting level. In fact, the cooperation government can already take action there today. You don't have to wait for a mile tax. I am a great opponent of the mileage tax, as Pia Nilsson probably knows. But in what way would Swedish companies' competitive conditions be improved by a tax shock of SEK 10 – 12 billion a year?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-236	Mr President, I would like to As far as Postnord and cabotage are concerned, it is ominous. We have drawn attention to this, and we have pointed it out to the government. I therefore assume that action will be taken. In the case of the road wear tax, or toll, there have been many rumours in circulation about the crowns and the crowns. It is a pity because there is not yet a proposal, either for 1, 2 or 100 kroner or whatever you believe. It is important not to walk around and believe, think and listen to rumors at this time. We await the investigation that is working on this, and it will work until February, to see what is reasonable to land on. The directive states that there should be close cooperation with the haulage industry. This is important. We have a Swedish haulage industry that does not think this is a bad proposal at all. In fact, there are positive aspects to this, not least in terms of competition, when it comes to eliminating illegal cabotage traffic or at least reducing it substantially. This is done in different ways. Just the road wear tax can be an important piece of the puzzle, as I said earlier. We also strengthen the traffic police's ability to monitor precisely this by allocating 25 million more. So you need to work on many fronts to strengthen Swedish haulage industry. But the road wear tax can definitely be a way.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-239	Mr President, I would like to In an earlier change of line, the urban environment agreements were mentioned. Liberals say no to the agreements. Why do we do that? Because they are short-term, unprecise and do not target the groups that we believe need long-term action. Seven municipalities received grants in 2015 and 19 municipalities in 2016. However, there were a number of municipalities that did not receive any grants. We believe that we must have long-term measures and that we must have very precise measures. Therefore, the Liberals propose that it be a clear allocation for a national competence centre and that we also ensure that we really clarify how much infrastructure investments cycling can be expected to receive annually. We propose SEK 75 million per year for everything else that comes from the municipal and regional levels. Thus, urban environmental agreements do not contribute to either long-term or major measures. Now it is stated in the budget proposal that in 2017 it is possible to use them for certain bicycle measures. My first question to Pia Nilsson is: what amounts are you discussing and what kind of measures? The funds can now only be used for public transport facilities. We heard from Karin Svensson Smith that there was criticism from the municipalities, which has made you choose to change the direction. But it is still very unclear what money can be applied for. I note that we have tried to obtain information on the amounts and the measures involved. To my knowledge, there are no such answers. But I look forward to hearing Pia Nilsson's response to what cycle measures are being discussed.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-247	Mr President, I would like to I was surprised when I saw the Liberals' proposal to say no to the urban environment agreement, precisely because you are so commendablely highlighting cycling as very important. The Cooperation Government also considers cycling to be important. What also surprises me is that the Liberals seem to believe that the same efforts and the same measures will apply in all municipalities and in all county councils across Sweden. That's a very non-liberal attitude, isn't it? I don't think it's very credible either. The conditions are very different in our municipalities and county councils, and they must be allowed to do so. The advantage of the urban environment agreement is that it is applied on the basis of local and regional conditions. That is the point, because the efforts and the strengthening of the urban environment that citizens are calling for are also being made. It is better that it is done there than that we from the state should say that one should now use a certain number of millions or hundreds of thousands for cycling, for stops, for improving quays or whatever one chooses to do. I think it is more appropriate to do so locally and regionally. When it comes to Nina Lundström's question about specific cycling, there is no answer to give more than that we invest SEK 250 million more in 2017 to enable cycling to also be covered by this urban environment agreement. But we should not stand here and state that there should be a definite sum for cycling. It could be anything from 50 million to 750 million. It would be foolish for us Members of Parliament to speculate about this at all.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-250	Mr President, I would like to As Pia Nilsson says, no one knows what money can be applied for today and whether it will be possible to use it for certain types of measures at all. That is why we in the Liberals think it is time to upgrade cycling to our own mode of transport, so that we get the same clarity in proposals and in our treatment of appropriations as for other modes of transport. There is nothing to say that you should have the same measures in some municipalities. Nor has the Liberals proposed that. We say that there should be clarity and that we should have clear appropriations, so that everyone knows what funds are available. It is also about a national competence centre, which we also think should have its own funding. But this lack of clarity puts cycling once again in a strange position. This is a short-term initiative for 2017. If it were a mode of transport in itself, it would be long-term and precise measures. The appropriations could be monitored and the way in which they are used could be monitored. However, this short-term solution of one-year project grants, for which no one today knows what the money will be used for, does not benefit the development of cycling as a mode of transport and for work commuting. It is also interesting to note that Pia Nilsson says that the situation has improved in terms of road safety. That is not how it looks according to the material in the budget bill. It notes that the accident rate of vulnerable road users has increased from 35% in 2005 to 49% in 2014. We must invest in both pedestrians and cyclists, and we must take action. One way to do this is to become clear in terms of funding and missions and from the state side to ensure that this is possible. Then, of course, the municipalities can decide for themselves what the important measures are locally.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-255	Mr President, I would like to If there is anything this government really does, it is investing in cycling and in public transport. We do this through, among other things, the urban environment agreement, which for 2017 will give 750 million SEK that municipalities and county councils can apply for money from. That's a big bet. In addition, a cycle strategy, probably before the end of the year, will clarify what more will be invested in the future. So the listener should not believe that we are not betting. I really want to say that out loud. However, I find it difficult to keep up with the liberal political polka. It is a bit like you want to, but yet you say no to measures for cycling, for example. It would have been quite easy for the Liberals to say: Yes, what good with urban agreements, where the possibility of cycling measures equal to 250 million is included. Instead, you say: No, we are removing urban agreements, and then we are spending 75 million anyway. It's kind of hard to keep up with those jumpers or whatever you're gonna call them. I am proud that the cooperation government is now investing as hard as it does. As I said, the urban environment agreement is a lot; there are a lot of other things we do – not least the climate issue, which we will come back to in the next debate.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-261	Mr President, I would like to The government wants to introduce a kilometre tax of about 5 billion. For a log truck company, the mileage tax will cost half a million a year per truck – 500,000 SEK per truck per year. We also know that there is no alternative to the truck when it comes to driving goods shorter distances. The goods must be transported by rail one and to the port, and it must be transported to wholesalers, shops and more. The question is, Mr President: what does the government really want to achieve with this penalty tax?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-263	Mr President, I would like to How do you know it's going to cost 500,000 a truck and a year, Robert Halef? You say you know that. I do not know that, even though I am part of the government base of the cooperation government that has given the task of investigating this. The investigation isn't finished yet, Robert Halef. You know that. It is to be hoped that a proposal will be made by the end of February. Before that proposal is presented, there is no reason to talk about either 500 000 or any other figure per year. It will be very interesting to see what the investigation lands in. The road user tax will be produced in consultation with the industry, and it will be very interesting to also take part in the consultations that follow once the investigation is completed and will be processed politically.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-265	Mr. Talma n! Thank you for the answer, Pia Nilsson! My numbers are based on the numbers that have leaked from the investigation. It's supposed to give 5 billion annually in revenue to the state. That's 5 billion in tax increases from a distance. There is 2 billion in air taxes, which strangles regional domestic flights. On top of this, there are over 40 billion in tax increases on jobs and growth, and many of these tax increases will reduce competitiveness and slow growth in the country. My question to you, Pia Nilsson, is: What do you say to all the truck drivers who will be laid off because of the mileage tax? What do you say to the hauliers – family businesses – who are forced to close down their business because of this penalty tax?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-267	Mr President, I would like to I say this: Do not listen to Robert Halef, for he does not know what this will result in! The proposals of the investigation are not yet clear. I also say: wait until the investigation is presented at the end of February! It is not serious to stand here and say that something has leaked out, Robert Halef. And if something is leaked, we do not know at all whether it is the final proposal, because there is no final proposal yet.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-268	Mr President, I would like to One problem mentioned in this year's budget report is that the accessibility of the transport system has improved slightly in the metropolitan regions but deteriorated in the more sparsely populated regions. The Left Party has exercised that the planning of the transport system should be based on more social benefits than on solving transport needs only in population-tight regions. To build a robust and equal economy, we need to level out differences between city and country, between Stockholm and Norrland and between areas in the centre and areas on the outskirts of cities. It's very important. We need equality again. We see how inequality rips the country apart. Emissions from the transport sector have not slowed down in 2015, due to increased traffic volumes as a result of higher emissions despite higher energy efficiency. There has been a decrease over a long period of time, but in 2015 the decrease has levelled out. It is clearly supported by research that we need to invest in community planning if we are to achieve the climate goals. It is called a traffic that is induced. This means that the more you invest in motorism and road traffic, the more cars and emissions you get. IVL, the UN climate panel, researchers at KTH and the investigation for a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, initiated by the bourgeois government, point out very clearly that we need to build fewer roads in order to reach the climate targets. The Arctic is now clearly signaling that the entire earth's climate system is creaking. According to researchers, a temperature rise of 20 degrees there may be signs that an escalating climate change is underway – a change we may not be able to handle if we do not act very quickly. That means we have to pull the emergency brake. We need to do everything we can to change, and we need to listen carefully to traffic researchers and researchers who are looking at how we can achieve climate targets. We would have to give the Finnish Transport Administration additional priorities and ensure that the expertise in rail is strengthened. What we hear from many different directions is that the Swedish Transport Administration is still stuck in road planning. You lock yourself in to the car too much. There are examples out in the regions where there is bike money to go to cycling but where there are no bike bets. Instead, the focus is on the roads. This must stop if we are to look our children in the eye and if we are to have a future on earth. We have to give the right priority. It is true that progress is also being made; it is now easier to choose bicycle and public transport than before. This is very positive, but we need to speed up the transition considerably. It needs to go faster. The punctuality of freight trains has not increased since 2014. This is very serious because the industry is asking for punctuality in order to be able to choose the railway instead of the truck. Maintenance also needs to be tightened up, and the competence of the railways needs to be strengthened on this point too. More money is needed, and we in the Left Party are pleased that we have managed to negotiate the levels for railway maintenance in the next infrastructure plan. That is the next item we are going to debate. However, additional funds will be needed, and we need to steer the organisation better – and, as I said earlier, raise the skills to ensure that the money is spent as efficiently as possible. We look forward to the work now being done to ensure that the state takes overall control of railway maintenance. It is necessary to take a new approach because we see how badly it has worked and how difficult it is with so many actors after the Swedish Transport Administration has released the knowledge about the tracks themselves. The objective of the postal sector is to provide reliable postal services throughout the country. In fact, we cannot say that we live up to this, which is very serious. It is particularly poor people who suffer when bills, etc., do not arrive on time and when companies, in the era of the market, become bolder and brazen when it comes to short repayment periods. We must ensure that the transition to the IT society does not cause problems for the most vulnerable and the country's citizens in the meantime. It is therefore positive that the committee is demanding from the government that, at the next annual report, there be a plan for how we can get a postal service that benefits quality throughout the country. This is a budget where there is more investment on the railways again – something that we have not seen being done during the bourgeois mandates. I'm glad. I am also pleased that all parties are now talking rail again, because we need to invest as much as we can only on the smart, climate-efficient modes of transport if we are to reach the climate targets and if we are to manage to maintain our civilisation as it now looks on earth.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-280	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup and the Left Party support the cooperation government in both the bill we are about to discuss and the budget work; we know that. In view of this, I find it quite interesting that Emma Wallrup's party leader Jonas Sjöstedt has today expressed the fact that the Left Party demands and demands the budget negotiations that Wallrup has just referred to as air tax to make train tickets cheaper. It's a condition, says the party. In the light of the ambitions of Emma Wallrup just now from the Parliament's pulpit, I would like to ask her to develop the reasoning on the effects of introducing an environmentally ineffective air tax of SEK 2 billion a year and to use this revenue – after we have amended the Budget Act, but that is only one detail – to reduce the price of train tickets in the country. How does this make sense?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-284	Mr President, I would like to I would think that people in this country will be happy when the sustainable means of transport becomes cheaper and the non-sustainable means of transport becomes more expensive. I have talked to many people who think it is completely unreasonable that it is so cheap to fly when we know that it is destroying the climate and when we know that the aviation sector has now reached levels that are in parity with the entire car traffic in Sweden. This means that we do not meet the climate targets. Then we must do something, and we must invest in what is right. We must invest more in rail traffic than in air traffic. What the Alliance points to is ICAO's efforts to reduce emissions. But I wonder how you think when this actually comes into place only in 2027. There's a very long time to go by then. We are now seeing a temperature rise of 20 degrees in the Arctic. This means that it is the emergency brake that applies. I have been working on the climate issue since 2005 and have been following the climate reports all along. For someone who may not follow them so closely, this may seem like a report among others. But Johan Rockström and others wrote on Twitter just when the report had been released: This is the most important news in a long time, for this indicates that the entire climate system is creaking in the joints. This is one of the signs we have been afraid of. We are faced with a situation that we do not know what it will mean. Then we must have measures that work, and we must act even more quickly. We would have to resort to very drastic measures. We would need to have new climate collections and, in fact, review our climate policy one more time on the basis of just this report. That is why I think this is a very good proposal which does exactly the right thing: it promotes the sustainable means of transport and makes it easy and cheaper to do the right thing.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-288	Mr President, I would like to I have not heard a speech from the speaker's chair or in lines here today by someone who expresses other than the same ambition to cope with the climate and take Rockström with several researchers' signals in the deepest seriousness. But now that was not the question, the question was: How do we create a policy for the whole country to live and, at the same time, make sure to have tools in the climate work that are effective? According to the investigators, the air tax referred to by the Left Party, which will collect a few billion SEK, has a net effect equivalent to CO2 emissions of smoking and New Year fireworks, or expressed in a different way: two years' consumption of tealight. It is a lot, but it can hardly be considered to be very effective. This money wants the Left Party to cash in and stuff into reduced fares. My question, to which I would like an answer, was: in what way does the Left Party maintain its ambition that the whole country should be able to live in? No one here is against effective tools for a better climate. But in what way will the Left Party's idea, possibly soon turned into a budget bill from the cooperation government, help the whole country live and that people can contribute with work and education to a better future in our country? That's the question I asked.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-292	Mr President, I would like to This is a very useful proposal precisely from this point of view. What is also included in the proposal tabled by Jonas Sjöstedt is that we want to strengthen night trains. It's a great way if you want to transport yourself to meetings or commute and so on. It is good if you want to live in all parts of the country and work elsewhere. This is therefore a proposal that goes precisely in this direction. We put forward several proposals on how to strengthen the train infrastructure throughout the country so that you can maintain your climate awareness while travelling. It is completely unreasonable that, in modern times, you should have to fly domestic in Sweden when the train is such a smart means of transport that many find convenient to travel with. It is easy to work on trains, and it is efficient because you come directly into a city when you go somewhere instead of having to be transported from an airport. There are many people who would rather choose the train than the flight just when travelling far away in Sweden. This is a proposal that goes exactly in the direction that Anders Åkesson is asking for.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-295	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Well-functioning transport is crucial for society in many different ways, but it is also crucial for us to achieve other important policy objectives of increased employment, the lowest unemployment in the EU by 2020 and, not least, as has emerged from previous replicas here, the climate targets that we have. It concerns the climate targets that we have politically, but perhaps even more the climate targets that are about the demands that the earth places on us. After two mandates of substantial underinvestments in transport infrastructure and railway maintenance, there is much to do. Since the government took office, we have given priority to rail maintenance. It is important for trains to arrive on time and for the transport of businesses to arrive. The positive thing about investments in rail maintenance is that they are an investment in our climate because they enable both travellers and companies to choose climate-smart transport while at the same time investing in more jobs. The short-term implementation of maintenance provides jobs, but it also creates the conditions for more companies to establish themselves, for people to commute and for labour market regions to grow. It takes time to reverse the trend. But we are investing in railway maintenance, and now it is also visible in tracks. Let me take an example. During the autumn I visited one of the railway routes that is far from sufficient quality. It's about the stretch between Boden and Sauna Swamp. Here the whole route has needed a total change of track, and now three stages have been completed and a full 124 kilometres of track have been replaced. It is one of Europe's biggest track changes this year. The final stage is planned to be completed in October 2017, and this means that the entire route will be completed next year. It is, of course, good for passenger traffic, but it is above all an extremely important function for freight. There is no doubt that the EUR 1.24 billion a year that the government allocates further to railway maintenance – in addition to the framework laid down by the then government in the national plan for the transport system – makes a real difference. But we need to make further efforts. An important part is that the whole country should live. Therefore, the special effort on maintenance of roads and tracks in rural areas as well as on public transport in rural areas will continue in 2017. In addition to this, in 2017, we are making a special effort of 200 million on measures that improve the capacity and robustness of the rail system. Sweden is a strong industrial nation, and the accessibility of goods is a prerequisite for growth and growing exports. We want to see more goods transported by rail and water, not for some kind of principled reason like that in general, but because it is both better for the environment and it relieves the fairly heavily damaged land infrastructure. For this, of course, rail maintenance is extremely important, and the tonnage tax we are now imposing will be crucial. But we also need to make road transport more efficient. This is why the government has presented a legislative referral on a new category of bearings, BK4, which will enable traffic with 74-ton trucks in parts of the road network. This is an urgent reform because 74 tonne trucks facilitate the transport of goods by industry and lead to lower emissions per tonne transported. The government intends to return to Parliament with a bill on this matter. Let me stop something at the heavy traffic on our roads! We have a major problem in Sweden with illegal truck traffic that risks competing out serious hauliers who pay the right taxes and contractual wages, follow driving and rest times and so on. We should not have it that way in Sweden. That is why we spend EUR 25 million each year until 2020 so that the police can better control heavy goods vehicles. A well-functioning transport system is not just a matter of resources. We are talking here about complex and large systems that will work separately but also together. This is very much an area that – in order for us to achieve success – requires collaboration between the political parties in the Swedish parliament, between politics, business and research, and between different levels of society: municipalities, county councils, regions, parliament and government. I believe that the issues of cooperation will be something that we need to put even more effort into the future. I am pleased to hear that we have a great deal of consensus, for example on the great need for railway maintenance and increased investment in it. However, in view of the interventions from the bourgeois edge, I cannot help but note that there are many new insights about getting into opposition, for example in relation to several of the efforts that are now being demanded of this government. What might be asked is what caused the then alliance government to refrain from investing heavily in railway maintenance, refrain from introducing new bearing classes, refrain from major bicycle ventures and refrain from major climate changes. Now this government is grasping a great deal of what the then alliance government was unable to do. I am very proud of this, and I look forward with confidence to the next debate in this area.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-304	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its intervention. I should like to begin by saying that it is rather sad to hear many from the other side ralli over what railway efforts were made during the last parliamentary term. As you know, the alliance government doubled railway maintenance, so we have said. There is more to read about in all infrastructure proposals. It is also the case that we did all the preparatory work for the introduction of heavy goods vehicles on our roads. Unfortunately, you have been delaying this reform for years. You have even delayed your own bill, which you have advertised. Then we have put it on record! But I am not the one who is, but I will of course be delighted on the day you finally put forward a bill on heavier trucks. I am also pleased that you are taking up the work of the Alliance Government and continuing to invest in the railways. But, Mr President, my line is mainly about what is not mentioned by the Government. It beats the chest for important reforms, but forgets to mention how they are to be financed, forgets to mention that the whole purpose of the government's transport policy seems to be that we should not have any transport. Kilometer tax, aviation tax, increased petrol and diesel taxes – in the area by area, taxes are hitting jobs, growth and competitiveness. I was going to focus on the airline tax investigation that came in the other week. The study itself states that the climate effects are marginal; the car will be chosen instead. We can also see in the next dossier that we are debating in this House that there is a majority in the Swedish parliament for global agreements but not for a national aviation tax.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-307	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jessica Rosencrantz for her speech. I think we should start by stating – as we have already done several times – that we need reliable and efficient transport in Sweden, not least because we are a country with great distances and high export dependence. But we also need transport that takes account of the fact that we have only one globe and that life on this globe is under threat. That is why we need to take all the necessary measures to shift the transport sector from a problem of climate change to being part of the solution. Most parties sitting in the Chamber have also been very active in the Environmental Objectives Committee, with very high ambitions in, among other areas, transport. But every time it comes to take measures that would change something and that would make it more expensive to choose climate-smart alternatives, the bourgeois oppose. I find it interesting that people choose to set targets but then are not prepared to contribute to measures aimed at achieving those objectives. It is also interesting to note that taxes in the bourgeois world are always only a burden that weighs down and makes it more difficult for people. In my head and in reality, the revenue received from taxes is used to strengthen society where society needs to be strengthened, for example through increased railway maintenance and investment in school, welfare and, not least, skills provision, which many companies in Sweden are screaming for today. Overall, taxes can have a very positive impact, as can be seen in the development right now, when we have low unemployment and the highest employment rate for a very long time.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-309	Mr President, I would like to We have heard other Social Democrats say that it is cool to pay taxes. I am also keen to endorse the fact that we need tax revenue, but we can all say that neither people nor businesses live in abundance in this country. Many people find it difficult to make ends meet. We need more companies that can contribute to jobs and growth. There are limits, Mr President, to how much taxes can be imposed on the Swedish people and our companies. But this discussion is just as much about what is effective action. When the government's own investigation finds that a national airline tax moves transport to the road side, the question must be asked: Why does the government want to proceed with this kind of tax? Is it just to raise money so that you can build high-speed trains for 230 billion? In that case, it will take time with these annual 2 billion. Or is it simply ideological that we have to fight against aircraft and the road side? I note, Mr President, that the Moderates and the Alliance have many good proposals on how we can enable people and businesses to choose climate-smart alternatives without penalising transport. Sweden is the third largest country on the surface of the EU. We need to transport. We have a long way to go in Europe. We therefore have a competitive disadvantage. To then introduce a unilateral airline tax in Sweden when we should have global agreements and are about to get them is foolhardy and hitting on jobs and growth. Super-environmental car premium, bonus – malus, a system within ICAO at global level to regulate aviation, electric roads, charging poles, continued investment in railway maintenance – I can give many examples of a smart climate policy. But clean tax penalties at a distance without any effect on the climate when people and businesses need transport is not wise. Now there is also no majority in parliament for a national air tax. How does the Government view it?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-313	Mr President, I would like to In principle, I and the government think it is reasonable to have taxes that also act as effective instruments. This means, for example, that making climate-smart choices should be more expensive than making climate-smart choices. You need to do both the burden on what is unwanted behavior and the relief for what is desired behavior. Overall, we need different instruments. This applies to economic and other instruments dealing with legislation and regulations. These can be urban environment agreements, which facilitate the transition to improved public transport and measures for cycling and pedestrians. At the same time, we must also look at the other side. Flight tax is therefore a reasonable measure. However, it must be ensured that the measures taken have the desired effect and do not have unreasonable consequences. It is therefore a good thing that the investigation is now making its proposal. This shall be referred to. How it should then be handled, the continued treatment will show. However, to oppose ideologically all sorts of investigations into increased taxes on fuels is also not wise in a situation where we really need to change the transport sector.
i-ELpoSvnc3S73ZckW2vRRWZ	Mr President, I would like to Welcome to today's parliamentary debate, Anna Johansson! In my main speech and in my lines, I have expressed great concern about the government's prowess regarding the ambition of the environment and that the whole country should be able to live with the support of the transport policy that we have. This takes the form of tax at a distance, whether it is about truck traffic or air traffic, and a large fummel with wireless broadband. That is why, Mr President, I would like to hear something about the overall assessment of the Government on the basis of the climate challenges that we face and that the whole country should live. Does the Government consider the road wear charge that is currently being investigated and which, according to leaks or sources from the investigation itself, could mean a fee of up to 10 billion a year as a sustainable financing of society's welfare? That is how the Government just recently argued for taxes. I share the view of tax and that tax should be used to even out inequalities and create a good society. But it is important for me to know whether the Government regards the kilometre tax as a sustainable financing of the welfare of our country over time.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-319	Mr President, I would like to For this government, it is of great importance that we have the opportunity to both live and operate in all parts of the country. There, of course, transport has an important role to play. This means, for example, that we are continuing to invest in rural public transport, which I note the Centre Party does not have in its budget. We also have several other measures aimed at strengthening the possibility of increased accessibility and high accessibility also in sparsely populated parts of the country. The road user tax has several different purposes. One is, of course, to mobilise more funds so that we are in a further position to implement much-needed reforms, including in the field of transport. It is also about what we have heard in previous shifts, and which I also mentioned in my introduction, namely that today we have unfair competition in heavy traffic. With a road wear tax, this would benefit those who choose more efficient engines, which would have a positive environmental impact. We would also have better opportunities to monitor heavy traffic by controlling the traffic on our roads. Overall, the government considers it important to continue to look at the possibility of using road wear tax to achieve these goals. The way in which this is to be designed is not yet clear. This study will not leave its report until February. Since the figures in just this discussion have ranged between 4 and 11 billion, I would like to repeat Pia Nilsson's recommendation to have some ice in the stomach and await the proposal that the investigation will eventually actually put forward.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-323	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. After all, I interpret the answer as meaning that the Government sees a road wear charge, mileage tax, as a sustainable financial revenue for the state, regardless of the level at which it ends up. This can also be interpreted in such a way that no matter how road haulage companies, vehicle developers and transport buyers behave, they will be penalised for the distance they have between raw materials, processing and the market. The Government will no doubt realise that this will drive the urbanisation of our country and the relocation of production from our country. I think that there was reason to ask the question because the Left Party has already found an area of expenditure for the air tax that we have also touched on. Speaking of order, there is reason to remind you that we are spending several billions on the police in our country, now further reinforced by the government by 25 million kronor. How order and order could be affected in the right direction to prevent unfair competition by making it more expensive for Swedish production and the Swedish haulage industry with a cost floor of 4, 10 or 12 billion SEK a year is for me a mystery. But this can certainly be developed by the Government.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-326	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I believe that we should have the need for sustainable transport as a starting point. When we talk about sustainability and road wear tax, it is clear that it is about sustainability in all three dimensions: economic, social and ecological sustainability. The road user tax aims to contribute to a more sustainable transport industry in all three perspectives. It is not quite as simple as that an increased tax by definition will always mean governance. In this case, Anders Åkesson draws very far-reaching conclusions about what this would mean. We can wait until the investigation has put forward its proposal before we draw large bills of money, lost jobs or anything else. This can also contribute to job creation, as we are in fact also given an incentive to choose more efficient engines, to make more efficient transport arrangements and to take advantage of the benefits and opportunities offered by digitalisation. Increasing the cost of truck transport can also give a driving force for change. Truck transport is, according to many today, too cheap in relation to the costs that arise around them. A change is exactly what the government intends to achieve. Let us await the proposal of the investigation, the subsequent consultation and the subsequent discussion of the government. I am convinced that we will find a design of this tax that can fall many on the lip.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-330	Mr President, I would like to My first question to the Minister for Infrastructure is, of course, about why cycling is not a separate mode of transport. Will the Minister contribute to this? When we read the budget bill and other material, it is striking how you can follow all other modes of transport over time. You can also see how money is distributed. However, this cannot be done for cycling, which we Liberals think should of course be a mode of transport of their own. My second question concerns rail maintenance. It is widely accepted – everyone knows about it – that the alliance government doubled maintenance. Moreover, the Liberals believe that we must continue to ensure that railway maintenance is improved. Operating conditions also need to be improved. Small measures should be kept small. We also want infrastructure planning to provide continuous, long-term, transparent and clear annual funding to maintain and increase maintenance. We must also beware of uncertainties, operational disruptions and things that also worry many people in the industry. We note that there is a major cloud of concern at the moment. Many discuss the conditions with the new Ertms signalling system, which also creates great concern over time. Then my question is to the Minister for Infrastructure: in view of the fact that there is a discussion in committee and in Parliament about listening to the criticisms of the actors that exist, is the Minister willing to listen to their views and, if necessary, pause the introduction of the ERTMS Ertms system?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-335	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the question of cycling. There is currently a preparation of the cycle strategy that the government has promised. Perhaps some of those questions can get their answer there. I note that of the discussion that this debate is concerned with, namely the 2017 budget, the Liberals have opposed the continuation of urban agreements. There, the government actually increases the framework for urban environment agreements by SEK 250 million for 2017 and an additional SEK 250 million for the following year, of which large parts could go to bicycle infrastructure, which has also been requested by the municipalities. Instead, the Liberals choose to spend 75 million on a special bicycle venture. They criticise the urban environment agreements because they only benefit a few municipalities. It is believed that the own investment of 75 million would go to all municipalities, if I have understood correctly. Then I just want to say that SEK 75 million in one year means SEK 258 000 per municipality in Sweden. I do not think that this money will give you that much bicycle infrastructure. It is precisely the construction of the urban environment agreements – sharing responsibility and that the state, the municipality and the region put together their efforts to get the maximum benefit from taxpayers' funds – is a very good model to work on. We have invested a lot more in railway maintenance. I guess it's fair to say that the alliance government turned the gallows around. They claimed that we had previously overinvested in rail. We will continue to invest also to improve the organisation of how the money is spent and to ensure that we get a larger share of preventive maintenance, thereby making it less money for inefficient remedial maintenance.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-340	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Government did not answer the question about the signalling system. There is a great deal of concern out there among many actors. This concern also exists in the context of European cooperation, in view of the implementation that has taken place so far. This is about a lot of money, somewhere around 34 billion for the coming years. Instead of creating an experimental railway workshop, we now need to ensure that there is as little interference as possible. There are also actors who want to transport goods by rail and who are concerned that transport will not arrive. There is a strong desire to pause or slow down implementation until all technical problems have been resolved. There are countries in our vicinity that do exactly the same analysis. In addition, a revision of the 2009 work plan is under way because that implementation has not been completed. With work in progress within the EU to review the work plan, it would be interesting to know what line Sweden is taking. If this is the way many actors express – both those who transport goods and those who are operators – that there is cause for concern that the technology does not work, then I think politicians should listen. That is why the Liberals are proposing to wait and see, solve the technical problems and pause in the meantime. In particular, if funds are released for further efforts to maintain the railways, care should be taken to ensure that the reliability of the railways is not disrupted. It prevents transport from moving from road to rail. This is an incredibly important and big issue, and you should listen to the actors that exist. Then I would like to put the question once again to the Government: Will the Government help to listen to the criticism?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-345	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my speech just now, cooperation between different actors is an enormous priority for the government. This applies, of course, to this issue as well. At the same time, it must be recognised that we have a commitment to the EU that Ertms should be implemented in all Member States by 2030. Sometimes it is referred to that Denmark has postponed its introduction. That is certainly true, but Denmark will have introduced this in 2023. This means that Sweden is far from the front or the best in the class, but we follow the plan that we have – a rather cautious plan, you might say. I think that Nina Lundström and everyone who rides trains at any frequency is well aware of the term signal error. This is something that occurs a little too often in the Swedish rail system. Ertms is a way to simply upgrade the signal system, to move from analog to digital, just as we have done in so many areas of society. We will ensure that we do so in a way that is as safe as possible, and we will ensure that the technology works. The Botnia Line was pulled with rather severe phase-in problems when the Ertms was introduced. The trend now is that there is a higher punctuality and less disruption than the corresponding routes where Ertms has not been introduced. But we will of course make sure that we take advantage of the benefits of technology and that we also listen to the criticism that exists and interact with the actors in this area.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-348	Mr President, I would like to The haulage industry in Sweden is currently exposed to fiercely unhealthy competition. The cheating is widespread and must be taken very seriously. Miserable operators who ignore cabotage rules knock out serious players on the market. Since 1 July this year, it is possible to trample vehicles without paying penalties for infringements of the cabotage rules. However, vehicles may only be trampled for 24 hours. The Christian Democrats want to tighten up the rules and propose that vehicles should be able to trample longer than 24 hours in order to get to grips with cheating in the industry.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-352	Mr President, I would like to This is indeed an area that is extremely important. It affects many more parts than just what one might think is narrowly affected, namely competition conditions for Swedish haulage companies. It concerns confidence in the EU system, as a great deal is linked to the free movement of labour. Unfortunately, it is not as simple as Robert Halef wants to make it, that it is only cabotage infringements. There are also Swedish-owned hauliers who, with false self-employed companies and other creative approaches, take advantage of the opportunities that exist, sometimes within and on the verge of what the law allows. This is an issue that we have devoted a great deal of interest and will continue to work hard to change. We believe that free movement within the EU is reasonable, but it should be on conditions that do not entail social dumping and unfair wage competition. Swedish employees should not have to pay with deteriorating conditions. This is an extremely important issue for the government. There are several parts to this. One of these, of course, is about ensuring compliance with the rules. I mentioned earlier that we are now shooting at 25 million a year to increase the resources of the police. But we have also given the Swedish Transport Agency a fairly large assignment. Among other things, it is a matter of reviewing the new legislation on both fines and complaints, whether the new legislation has had the desired effect or whether there is reason to go further. There are several other parts of it that I am happy to return to in my next line. But the Tranports Board has been given a mandate, and we will wait for that result before we decide whether that particular measure is the most effective.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-358	Mr. Talmman! Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I hope that in future discussions we can come to the conclusion that this can be tightened up so that these vehicles can be trampled for more than 24 hours. The Christian Democrats also want to allow heavier and longer freight trains as well as heavier and longer lorries. It reduces emissions while increasing the efficiency of freight transport. Longer and heavier vehicles can carry more goods at a time. We want to allow 30 metres long and 75 tonnes heavy trucks. In addition, we propose longer freight trains in the same length as Denmark and Germany, for example, have 830 metres.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-362	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the government's initiative for the legislative referral to allow 74-tonne traffic and introduce a new category 4 load capacity on the roads in Sweden, we also took the initiative that the Swedish Transport Agency should review the conditions for both longer and heavier freight trains. There have been some changes. What is needed in order to allow longer and heavier freight trains is above all to ensure the carrying capacity of the relevant parts of the rail system and to ensure that there are sufficiently long pass-by tracks, meeting tracks and freight yards. Such actions will be the subject of an action plan for the next national plan. These are measures which, in that case, will fall within the priorities set there. But in principle, the government strongly supports both longer and heavier freight trains. It would simply make transport more efficient and contribute to an increased attractiveness for transferring goods to the climate-smart and energy-efficient train as a means of transport. There we will continue those efforts. I would like to return briefly to the question of the conditions of competition in the heavy transport industry. There are several parts here. It is also about procurement issues and ensuring that the Tax Agency and other authorities interact. It is not the case that it is just foreign hauliers who violate cabotage rules. The problem is much bigger and worse than that. Here we will have to take action at European, national and to a very large extent in collaboration between authorities and the industry to achieve results.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-365	Mr President, I would like to We are now at the third hour of today's very important debate on transport and the area of expenditure relating specifically to traffic and transport. There are very many important issues in the policy area that must, of course, be addressed. Now in the third hour I think it is time to talk about some IT and digitalisation. After all, it is also within this policy area. Some may find it unnatural; others find it completely self-evident. Digitization is an extremely powerful force that now pulls through our society and affects us almost every moment of our existence and almost every aspect of our lives. It is, of course, something that also plays a very important role. In Sweden, we are at the forefront of the development of IT infrastructure. There is still much to be done. But we are now beginning to achieve a point where it is not just about talking about how best to continue to expand the infrastructure for information technology, but also how we might use it. A well-developed infrastructure is, of course, the foundation on which we can build. But then it has to be filled with a content. One could imagine that in a budget bill somewhere near you there was a plan for how it would be used and developed in the very best way. There are some seeds for reasoning if you read the budget position. But there is no plan, Mr President. Actually, it's kind of aimless. Some moments you wonder who's driving. Or if you want to speak IT language: Who fills the router function in the Government Office? It would reasonably be some kind of cyber-minister. But he's not here. He's somewhere else. When he took the role of Minister of IT a little more than six months ago, it was announced through some different channels that he will have to focus his first time as Minister on housing policy and other things. The IT issues had to come at a later stage. If the workload is so overwhelming for the Government responsible for cyber issues, one might ask whether a redistribution of responsibility for raising these important issues on the agenda would not be appropriate. That would mean taking the place they deserve and giving IT policy a little go and step up, Mr President. Perhaps it would be time to look outside the window and this is one of the most relevant issues discussed and experienced today in general. But both the cyber minister and the plan shine with their absence. One could almost see a lack of interest in these very issues. I find that very worrying. After all, there is a great deal to be done, especially in Swedish government. After all, the public sector forms a very large part of the life we live. Our contacts with authorities could develop much more to become much more cost-effective and flexible. Public documents could be much more easily accessible if we wanted them to be. In this way, we would also reduce costs for Swedish authorities in administration and in the field of archiving and extradition of documents. You could by all means create a great many great benefits, not only within the central government but also for Swedish growth and the Swedish business community by enabling you to easily access all the information that has accumulated in the Swedish public sector for decades and centuries. It is a very large amount of information that properly used could create very large benefits. But there is not even a plan, Mr President. The Prime Minister usually rallies in the debate when we say that we have a plan for a stronger Sweden and say: Jönssonligan also had a plan. That's a very daring parable of the Prime Minister. In that parable he is reasonably Wall-Enberg-Enberg, and we in the Moderates who have a plan for Sweden are the ones who usually win in the end. We should remember that the alternative is to drive aimlessly without a map and compass. Then you don't know where you end up either. Mr President, I would like to We need a plan for a stronger IT-Sweden. In our follow-up motion for this proposal, in motions for other proposals and even during general exercise time, we have highlighted the need for an extended IT infrastructure and to use it in a responsible and effective way. But the question remains. Where's the government plan? What do you want? I haven't heard anything.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-376	Mr President, I would like to We are talking today about infrastructure and the budget relating to infrastructure. It is clear that the digital infrastructure is just as important as any other infrastructure in order to have a functioning society. But perhaps it is even more a question of democracy, participation, equality and equality. It is therefore gratifying to see that the government and Sweden have and have had high ambitions, and we should be proud of that. The objective of IT policy is that we should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. If we just think about it a little bit, we'll see that we're in a revolutionary time. We could even talk about a technical revolution, even if we do not think about it every day. It is very likely that in 50 years' time, we will look back and say: Mr Rackarns, what got away there in the early 2000s. The changes we see in the field of technology affect us politically, in all areas of society and not least as individuals. Technology affects work, private life, business, environmental work and healthcare. Yes, it affects everything. If we handle the issues properly, we will be able to do everything smarter and better with the help of the opportunities of digitalisation. Progress is progressing at a raging pace. Of course it's not safe. Sweden has been at the forefront and is still at the forefront, but many others are catching up. Therefore, the government is working on a digitalisation strategy that will be presented after the end of the year, sometime during the spring. It's both good and important. We need the strategies and the investments. A conscious policy is needed to point the way for the future. That is why the government's budget includes 850 million under the rural development programme for the whole country to live. If we don't all keep up, we're gonna miss the train. We must ensure that everyone in our country has access to good connectivity and good broadband. It is about justice and democracy. The other week, the government also presented an additional 150 million under the rural development programme. In total, we are talking about 1 billion in broadband investment to the whole country to make the whole country live. This means that the investment we are now working on in broadband is up to 4.25 billion. That's a lot of money. Erik Ottoson seemed concerned in his previous speech. I can calm him down. If he had been here last week listening to Question Time, he would also have heard the minister responsible tell us about the new broadband strategy. It showed that the ambition is for it to be presented before the end of the year. That is exactly what he said here in Parliament. Don't worry, Erik Ottoson. There will be a new broadband strategy. With any luck, we'll have it by the end of the year. Or it'll come right after New Year's. It will contain a great deal of ambition. The objective now, which was a high ambition when the target was set, that 90% of the population should have access to 100 megabits of connectivity speed, is good, but that is not good enough. We need a jacket-up policy on IT, and the new broadband strategy will be a good way forward.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-386	Mr President, I would like to I thank Teres Lindberg for her attempt to calm down. I understand there's an IT strategy coming forward. You don't want to call it a plan. I understand that. Call that strategy instead. It sounds less Jönssonligan. I have with light and lanterns in debates, during seminars and during the hearings of the Committee of Inquiry by the Secretary of State to Minister Peter Eriksson, I have sought a symmetry of ambition that will lead to a strategy. I have been looking for the political foundation on which such a strategy should be based. When we last debated it in the Chamber, Teres Lindberg had many ambitions of her own which she regretted that she had not heard in her own government. Teres Lindberg certainly has insight into what is to come, but will she hear her thoughts and ideas? Will we see the increased ambition she then talked about? Or will this be the official product that it risks being when you have a political master without his own ideas and ambitions? Just because there is a strategy by the end of the year does not mean that it is actually based on some kind of forward-looking vision that is politically based. Will Teres Lindberg hear their ideas? Is there anything Teres Lindberg can tell us now? Will there be a political strategy, or will there be another shelf heater?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-392	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for the question – despite the glaring tone. We must not forget that it is the last government's broadband strategy that the government is working on now. Is it both empty words with no content, but can it still place Sweden on the map with high ambitions? I note that Erik Ottoson had exactly the same rousing tone during a debate this spring on IT policy. I am pleased because I will hear the demands I have made to step up the broadband policy and the IT policy, that is to say, to have higher ambitions. It's not just there. This can be seen in the research bill and in the work of the Minister for Economic Affairs. In the area by area we see how politics and government are raising ambitions right now. If Erik Ottoson does not see this, I would urge him, Mr President, to open the newspapers and read them in the mornings. It is also possible to do this in the toad. You don't even have to keep the papers in paper form. So modern is the world right now. Then there was the question of the strategies. It's not just one, it's two. On the one hand, it is a broadband strategy that is about infrastructure, about how we should ensure that the whole country has access to good connectivity speed that means that everyone has the same democratic opportunities and rights to participate in an active society. On the other hand, it is just as much the digitisation strategy to be presented, which is much broader. It will be about both the labour market and healthcare – most of it, everything that digitalisation affects in our society today.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-396	Mr President, I would like to It is indeed true that the existing broadband strategy and the existing IT policy as a whole – two years into the new mandate – are still the one that the Alliance Government set out. The problem is that more than half the term of office has passed, and the current government has come no further than preparing new strategies. It is true that the strategy laid down by the previous alliance government was then bold and innovative. The problem with innovative strategies is that as time passes, time passes. Then you become less innovative when bold political decisions suddenly become mainstream. That is why the development of IT policy is constantly needed, which has now been completely halted for two years. Former Minister of State Mehmet Kaplan, who was responsible for these issues, described in this House how well he thought the previous alliance policy was. I guess we'll just have to thank you for that. He did not see any immediate things that needed to be developed or improved. His impression was that things were good, so no major action was taken in his area of responsibility during the time he was a minister. I can read the paper, too. I usually do it in my iPad. It works well, just as Teres Lindberg describes. Rather, I see a government that is lagging behind the rest of the world, where technology development is fast and one has to gradually adapt to what it actually looks like, rather than being the driving force that the government could be on these issues. I hope with heart and desire that the strategies described by Teres Lindberg will create that momentum. Where is it now?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-401	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if it's cool to ask Erik Ottoson to wash his ears. I said that the new broadband strategy will come in a few days, possibly after the end of the year. In the space of a month we will have it. It is good and important that there is indeed a conscious strategy to raise ambitions. That's what it's all about. It is clear that the previous strategy was ambitious. We set a target that 90% would have access to 100 megabit connectivity speed. It is clear that the previous strategy was ambitious, but it was not good enough. The previous bourgeois policy is not good enough, and the government wants to increase its ambitions. I am being perplexed by Erik Ottoson's assertions here, because it is precisely the opposite. In the area by area, the ambitions for the opportunities of digitalisation are raised. In order to meet the challenges of the future and the competition from the rest of the world and also sharpen innovation policy, digitalisation is our opportunity to move forward. If you, Erik Ottoson, do not see that minister after minister in area after area works intensively on this every minute, I actually wonder which media you take part of. I am both pleased and proud today that we will soon have a new broadband strategy that will also raise Sweden's ambitions in the future.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-405	Mr President, I would like to As a Gothenburger with the sea in my heart, I thought I'd talk a little bit about shipping. We have not talked much about shipping here in the debate, so I thought I would speak about it. When you see the ships coming with all the world's goods, it's clear you're wondering what's coming. It's everything from clothes to technology and jewelry. In view of Sweden's location in Europe, one can liken our country to an island. Then it is no wonder that a lot of cargo is transported here by ships. If you look at how the Swedes live in Sweden, you can see that as many as 49 per cent of the population lives within a mile of the coast. Within 20 miles of the coast, 58 per cent live, 63 per cent live within 30 kilometres, and 71 per cent of the population live within 50 kilometres of the coast. Why do people live near the coast? It's no wonder. It has always been easy to transport goods by sea. The roads used to be substandard if there were roads at all. We have developed at least 50 ports that have the possibility of receiving a lot of goods, but it is a very small part of domestic freight that today goes by sea. We have great opportunities to carry more on ships than we do today. Now we have the opportunity to make some relief through the tonnage tax. The government has also introduced a maritime strategy. We Swedish democrats are no worse; we are also investing in shipping. We also invest in the environment in the Baltic Sea through a relief for ships that choose to discharge waste water into ports instead of the Baltic Sea. As has already been said, the Swedish democrats also want to relax the fairway charges to facilitate ice mining. There are large costs for the ships, and it is Sweden and Finland that have these fees. What is very important for our inland waterways to start working is that we build the locks in Trollhättan and make them more efficient. This involves considerable costs, and once the new locks are built, it is good to make them much bigger so that they are also suitable for container ships. If we have new nice locks, it is also important to make sure that the landslide secure river that goes up to Trollhättan and Vänerhamn from Gothenburg. Such an effort involves enormous costs but is also of the utmost importance given that along the river lies old industrial land that risks sliding down into the river as large parts of these areas are built on nimblera. Should a landslide occur, the possibility for nearly 700 000 people in the Gothenburg area and the surrounding area to get drinking water will disappear. I will stay there, Mr President, because I see that speaking time is running out.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-415	Mr President, I would like to We have two major reports to debate today, and they have indeed been thoroughly confused. In the three-hour debate that we have just enjoyed, both reports have been touched on at the same time and in a mess. I won't be any worse. When you are far down on the list of speakers, you can listen to some of them. Let me say a few words about Ertms. There is a tendency, particularly from the responsible side – government, not least – to touch on the main concerns and problems of the reports at least. Of course there is a concern about Ertms. We Swedish democrats tried to read us well on this, and we also have professionals who are well acquainted with it. The more I myself have studied this signalling system, the more considerate I am to introduce it in our country at all. I heard the government say signal errors are very common. It's done. It is not like another speaker said that the railways have been significantly neglected in the last eight years – I think it was Pia Nilsson – but it has been neglected for thirty years. Nothing has been done. The only thing the Social Democratic government that was before the bourgeois did was to sell out the railways. It was liberalised and did not do anything to improve it. I'm afraid that's the truth. There's no need for any of the sides to hit their chests. A summary sentence about Ertms is that it is an unprofitable and unnecessary investment. Much better can't be expressed. I would like to say a few words on aviation issues. They're really in ironing class. Now the committee will issue a declaration to the government on regional airports. In fact, it is the responsibility of the government to make it clear to the EU that this kind of supranationality is not acceptable. I am not so naive as to think that the EU will listen, because a supranational, federal organisation is exactly what you want to be. The government will have to deal with planning for the necessary measures. Measures can be taken to eliminate this threat before the closure of these regional airports. As far as air taxes are concerned, the Swedish Democrats have been speaking clearly on this issue since 2014 when we heard about it. We are therefore saying no thanks to a simply stupid tax that serves nothing more than to sabotage an entire transport sector. Now there's a risk that I'm approaching denial. I heard our chairman of the committee say that no one here has yet claimed to be a denial of the climate. We don't need that either, but the Green Party does. A climate-denialist is, according to their definition, the n that goes against the various anti-aircraft and anti-technology proposals of the Green Party, in particular with regard to aviation. We have the Bromma debate in good memory.
i-eepgd1QyfzBjAjbotRarn	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 6 in the committee's report. We are going to talk about the infrastructure of the future, and probably this is the most important debate we have throughout our term of office. It feels very pleasant to stand here, because this is about basic everyday conditions for a lot of people. As I was preparing for this debate, I was browsing quite a few railway books in my bookshelf and got caught up in one called Track in the landscape. How the railway shaped country and city. If you look at different types of infrastructure, the railway is unique. There is no other infrastructure that has so much affected Sweden's geography – how cities and rural areas, settlement patterns and nature have evolved after what our ancestors did in the 1870s. I am both a history teacher and a geography teacher and would like to remind you of that time. Sweden was then one of the poorest countries in the whole of Europe. We were unable to support our own population, and millions emigrated and sought nourishment in other parts of the world and other countries. A number of forward-looking people, Mr Gripenstedt and others, said that we must invest in the infrastructure of the future. They had the courage, together with finance ministers and others, to borrow the corresponding several times the state's budget for the construction of new railways. Against the fund of this, industries emerged, such as workshops that not only produced the railway itself, but produced locomotives, wagons and everything that belongs to the railway infrastructure. These hijacked off and became other companies, and in the mirage of these investments many of the industries that not only hired very many people, but also became export industries, gave tax revenues and was a very important factor in Sweden's unprecedented growth between 1870 and 1970. Thanks to these great economic effects of the railway building, one could both build a welfare country and make sure that the everyday life is better for most of us. Those who come after us will have to judge, but now we have the opportunity to make a perhaps equal investment when we take the next step in the infrastructure and go from more slow trains to high-speed trains. The challenge we politicians have to face is actually as great as the one they had in the 19th century. It is not immediate poverty that is the acute threat; it is the climate threat that is banging on the door. We must urgently address how to create a transport system that is not dependent on imported oil. I would like to note once again that 78% of Sweden's oil imports go to the transport system. Strangely enough, there are also those who oppose this reform that the cooperation government has as its largest issue in the infrastructure bill. They say that investing in economic instruments is more effective. There is a school of transport economists who say that in principle no railway investment is socially profitable. Instead, there are other climate measures that are more effective from a socio-economic point of view. If you ask the follow-up question about the instruments they advocate, they say that increased CO2 tax and taxes on oil-fuelled transport are more effective than expanding the railways. We discussed this during the last debate in this House. It is not the case that the Green Party is in any way afraid of the economic instruments that can lead both air transport, freight and passenger transport to meet the climate targets. But if this is going to work, we have to give alternatives to people. We cannot simply say that it will be more expensive to move by car and plane and then not make the alternatives better. If you want to summarise this bill, which is about 622 1⁄2 billion in the upcoming planning period, 2018 – 2029, this is what it is about: providing alternatives to climate poor transport. The railway must be expanded, and it must be expanded to do what we announced to the government just over a year ago, that is to say, to double public transport. There is no intrinsic value in it, but it is a means of achieving the goal of long-term sustainable infrastructure. Then we must be able to meet the need to broaden the labour market regions and provide the necessary reliability for those who want to invest in new housing to feel that society will grow here. We must provide the opportunity for alternatives to aviation. Sweden is a large and elongated country, and it is difficult to move quickly without having access to alternatives. That's why we need high-speed trains that run 200 miles an hour. In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we have had the opportunity to study how this works in other parts of the world and in other parts of Europe. I have received a delegation from our French counterparts, which has successfully invested in this many decades ago. We can say that we need to pull ourselves together now, just as we needed to get up in the 1800s when Sweden was a very poor agricultural country. If the Japanese had been at our level with regard to the railways, there would still have been black and white television: we are far, far behind. The Co-operation Government has an economic framework that makes it possible to invest in new main routes. In no way is that done irresponsibly. One can have views on different parties, but what characterizes the other party in the cooperation government, i.e. the Social Democrats, is hardly irresponsible. Most of the 20th and 21st century have taken on the government's power and taken responsibility for development. Of this, the Green Party has much less experience. On the other hand, it is our task to push and put the climate issue higher on the agenda. In this bill, I believe that the best of our two parties is united. We are happy to say that not only do we have our own parties behind us. Many accident ravens believed that we would not be able to hear our proposals, but both the Left Party and the Center Party realise what a developmental force this is for Sweden. What motives they have will be developed in the speaker's chair after me. Now I have talked a lot about the new main tracks, and they are thought of as some kind of spine in the railway body. But if the body's supposed to work, it's not enough with a spine. It also needs ribs. It has been pointed out to us in the Committee on Transport and Tourism with great emphasis, especially from the Västra Götaland region, that the rail system that exists today, which people use to commute to and from their workplaces and studies, must be taken more responsibility for. They're absolutely right about that. It is not a good idea to classify the railways and then say that we are only able to maintain and manage the railways that are the youngest and where it moves a lot of people. If we are to achieve a doubling target, we need to manage all the railways that currently contain regional rail commuting and probably even more routes, also in order for goods to have the options needed to achieve the objectives of the European White Paper, namely that long-distance road freight transport must move to rail and maritime transport if we are to meet the climate targets. This leads me over to shipping, as there is little about it in this bill. One of the reasons for this is that this infrastructure is largely already in place. The waterway is very cheap both in investment and in maintenance. Sweden has a long coast and 52 ports. But they're used too little. The economic distribution, the price of transport, between road, rail and shipping is such that the infrastructure available to carry goods along the long coast of Sweden is not used. Many countries in the EU would be jealous of Sweden's geography and the opportunities we have to produce our goods in an energy efficient way. However, there are ambitions to make better use of shipping. But it is not investments that are needed primarily, but regulatory changes and other changes that I can come back to. I know that they are being prepared at the Government Office, within the framework of a good strategy. Waiting for it, we have to protect what we have. And I am quite pleased that the Committee on Transport and Tourism points out that there is a vulnerability in the transport system that we need to look out for. I also see that the government will come back in the Good Strategy on how to safeguard cross-border rail transport. We have been brought to the attention, particularly in connection with a municipality in my constituency, Trelleborg, that fewer trains with freight pass through the port of Trelleborg. Although former red-green governments have invested in expanding the railway yard so that they can cope with full trains, fewer freight trains come in. Unfortunately, new boats have also been ordered without rails. It's extremely alarming. Sweden cannot have the ambition to become one of the first fossil-free welfare countries and at the same time close the entrance to trains via the port of Trelleborg. It threatens, in addition to the estate, even the night trains to Berlin. It would be very sad if we could not continue to move to Berlin that way. We have many things in this bill to discuss. I guess some people might want to reason with me when I'm done talking. Then I will return to, for example, the flight. The reservation we have proposed is that the government wants to do its utmost to achieve global solutions for aviation. But when those solutions are not enough, we want to take responsibility for transport in our own country as well.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-449	Mr President, I would like to The government's offensive efforts continue. It adds 100 billion more to our common infrastructure compared to the Alliance's funding four years ago – 100 billion more – to build Sweden strong and sustainable for the future. In total, the Government is investing SEK 622.5 billion from 2018 and twelve years forward in getting trains to go on time, in building new road and rail routes, in enabling our shipping to handle more goods and in drastically reducing emissions in the transport sector. For those of you who are now listening to our debate, let me give you a brief explanation of what we are debating today. The government has put forward a proposal, a bill, for a historically large investment in our common infrastructure, based on the Parliament's transport targets. In the bill, the government highlights priority areas, how much money will be spent on building new roads and railways and how much money will be spent on maintaining what we already have. In this debate, we will not talk about which specific roads or railways are to be built. It will be decided by the government in the spring of 2018, in what is called the action plan. Mr President, I would like to Trains should be on time. That is what we Social Democrats said in the 2014 election campaign, and now we are taking a new big step in that direction. One of the most important investments in the bill is that the government increases railway maintenance by 47 percent and allocates 125 billion over the next twelve years. It is a historic and absolutely necessary effort. Sweden has a worn-out railway plant that is in need of daily maintenance. By increasing the funding significantly, the Swedish Transport Administration will be able to work more preventively, so that more trains depart and arrive on time. Whether you work commuting, visiting relatives and friends, or buying a freight transport service, you should be able to rely on the train to arrive on time. We're not there yet. Trust in rail transport will increase, and the government will focus specifically on the freight sector. We can talk for a long time and well about how important it is to get large parts of heavy traffic off our roads. But as long as there are no credible alternatives, we will continue to see freight transported around our European roads. These are goods that could well have been transported by rail. From this point of view, the government's investment in rail maintenance is important enough. It is not just the rail system that needs to be strengthened. The road network also needs to be developed and maintained in order to cope with both the greater volume of traffic in major cities and the needs of rural areas, where the road is often the only option. Therefore, the government increases the funding for road maintenance and continues to provide support for individual roads. Mr President, I would like to Of the 622.5 billion invested, more than half will be invested in new roads and railways, among other things. If we can coordinate investment in infrastructure with investment in housing, we will improve the opportunities for people to live and live throughout the country and to commute and move to where the jobs are. Sweden currently has the highest employment rate in the EU. In two years, 120 000 new jobs have been created and unemployment has fallen. Yet more than 100,000 job vacancies are waiting to be filled. Access to the right skilled labour force is crucial for Swedish growth, for jobs and for well-being. This requires robust and reliable infrastructure. The problem with the railways is that it has reached its capacity ceiling over many distances. There are no more trains in the South Main Line, no matter how much we maintain it. We need to build new main roads to meet the increased needs of work commuting and housing. At the same time, when we build these new main roads, we will ensure that they can be operated by high-speed trains. However, the debate on the main roads is too much marked by a focus on traffic between our major cities. Regional traffic will play a role at least as important as terminal traffic. Regional traffic combined with increased capacity for regional trains and freight on the current main routes is important for Sweden's development. The new main roads will be built at the rate allowed by the economy. The extension will take time and extend over several terms of office. The Government does not intend to build the paths with borrowed money, as the Swedish negotiations suggested. Mr President, I would like to In recent weeks, we have received new alarm reports that the ice around the Arctic and Antarctica is decreasing at record speed. Figures indicate that in the autumn it has been 20 degrees warmer in the Arctic than normal. A major contributory factor is the climate warming we have achieved ourselves through our greenhouse gas emissions. This won't hold. The climate situation needs to be improved. Last December, the countries of the world agreed on a new climate agreement, the so-called Paris Agreement. The global temperature increase should be kept well below two degrees, and we will work to ensure that it stops at one and a half degrees. The government's offensive efforts to implement the agreement continue with full force. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. This calls for a reduction in emissions from the transport sector, which accounts for one third of our total emissions. Six parties of the Day have agreed to reduce transport emissions by 70% by 203 0. It is a matter of duty. I believe that all parties in this House, with the possible exception of the Swedish Democrats, are aware that Sweden must turn into a fossil-free society. But it requires more than fine words and the signing of agreements. Action is required. We will need to change our transport systems. We will have to invest in other transport solutions than those we are using today. And it will take political courage to achieve results. The government is pursuing an offensive policy here as well. One example is the urban environment agreements, where the state co-finances climate-smart investments in municipalities and county councils to increase public transport and cycling – initiatives that citizens demand. Another example is Climate Change, where the state contributes to strengthening local and regional efforts to reach a fossil-free vehicle fleet. To date, the initiative has contributed to over 5,000 new charging points for electric cars around the country. Up to now, climate action has led to a reduction in carbon dioxide equivalent to emissions from over 52 000 petrol-powered cars travelling around the world. A third example is that we now allow longer and heavier freight trains. Mr President, I would like to Sweden today has a government that goes on the offensive to ensure that we become the leading country in the green transition, that we are at the forefront and develop the new technology. A Social Democratic-led government will never be a government that reluctantly backs off into the future. We don't fear new technology. We fear the old one. We need to become more transport-smart and see the opportunities of new technologies, with electrification and, not least, with digitalisation that allows us to plan our trips in a more climate-smart way. There are many exciting projects and test beds going on today. The infrastructure bill runs until 2029. When we arrive at that year, we will probably have more or less self-driving cars as part of our everyday lives. It is more real today than science fiction. Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport is the type of traffic with the greatest potential for development. We are currently carrying too little goods both along our coasts and on our inland waterways. In our country we have many good shipping companies that operate both Swedish and foreign ports. They perform a significant part of our transport, but there is an untapped potential that the government wants to use. In order to increase the transfer of goods from road to shipping, the government has developed a maritime strategy that will be the foundation of the work to create competitive and innovative maritime industries in Sweden. The Swedish Maritime Administration is currently investigating this development potential for our inland waterways and coastal shipping. Attempts are being made to identify possible obstacles to the transfer of goods from road to sea. But infrastructure, Mr President, is, of course, more than just physical rail tracks and asphalt roads. It is also about how it is possible to create an equal and equal transport system. There are differences between women and men in commuting patterns. This is linked to what the labour market looks like. This is linked to the responsibility for children. This is particularly linked to income inequality. However, the Swedish Democrats do not agree with this. They claim that it is the biological difference between men and women that determines how one chooses to transport itself. In this work, I would like to thank the Center Party's Anders Åkesson for their good cooperation. The Centre Party shows that they, just as we want to take responsibility for gender issues and that they, just as we recognise the importance of having an infrastructure policy that takes account of and can meet the needs of the entire population. Mr President, I would like to The government has chosen to eliminate tax cuts and invests instead in our community building, where offensive investments in a robust and sustainable infrastructure have their given place – 622.5 billion for the climate, for jobs and for a Sweden that holds together.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-481	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, behind all reservations where the Moderates are included but advocate for the winning approval of time only to reservations 1 and 14. Sweden needs a government that sees the importance of all modes of transport – how together and individually they contribute to jobs and growth. Sweden's competitiveness depends on a transport system that people and companies can rely on. Instead of building socio-economically unprofitable high-speed trains for money that does not exist, the Moderates want to invest in taking care of and expanding the rail and road network we already have. Before we commit ourselves to new major investments for which we have not seen the final note, we must first of all care for the current system, which too often leaves people freezing on platforms or companies without the opportunity to export. In the Moderate infrastructure movement, we have an economic framework amounting to 628.5 billion for the forthcoming national transport plan, which is 6 billion more than the government. Of these, 333.5 billion goes to development, 125 billion goes to railway maintenance and 170 billion goes to road maintenance. We spend as much as the government on railway maintenance and half a billion more than the government on road maintenance every year during the planning period. Our extra efforts on the road side will be needed because, among other things, the Swedish Transport Administration warns that the government's policy risks reducing road standards in some parts of the country. Mr President, I would like to The government has presented an infrastructure bill that is unusually empty of concrete content. Its more than 70 pages can be set against the more than 200 pages of the alliance government's infrastructure proposals. Above all, it is a paper product where there are no answers to important questions. How should the road standard be maintained? What happens to the future of aviation when a flight tax is introduced? Particularly serious, Mr President, is the lack of a serious timetable and funding for the high-speed trains that they claim to want to build. To conceal the lack of answers, the government and Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson are building air castles in the media. It is said that high-speed trains should be built at the pace allowed by the economy. We don't really know when or how. Mr President, I would like to It has become clear that red-green transport policy lacks broad support in Parliament. This can be seen, among other things, from the fact that the Riksdag addresses five announcements to the Government in connection with the infrastructure bill. The Committee on Transport and Tourism is clear that it wants to see global agreements to regulate the climate impact of aviation rather than a national aviation tax. We want the government to ensure that regional airports can survive at a time when, among other things, the EU is striking out on the public's ability to finance these airports. We want regional airports to have a clear place in the government's aviation strategy. We also want a national strategy for cross-border rail transport. We want the introduction of the new Ertms signalling system to be carried out in close consultation with the operators. Account must be taken of the cost increases that are at great risk. There is also a need to coordinate with neighbouring countries. Quite regardless of what you think in substance about Ertms, you can see that the process leaves a lot to be desired. The Transport Committee also says that the procurement methods of, among other things, the Finnish Transport Agency must be improved so that we can get more out of the infrastructure that we spend our tax money on. Mr President, I would like to Many of us have long warned that the government's transport policy undermines Swedish competitiveness and the efficiency of the transport system. Since the starting point for the Social Democrats is to raise taxes – we heard that in a previous replica – and the Green Party would like to increase transport costs at all times, the final product hits hard at people and companies who often lack alternatives in a long and sparsely populated country. This will ultimately weaken Swedish growth and weaken the conditions for a country that already has among Europe's longest distances and highest taxes. Mr President, I would like to The Moderate plan for a stronger Sweden includes that growth will benefit all people in all parts of the country. Sweden is bigger than Stockholm, and we want the whole country to be able to live. The Director-General of the Finnish Transport Agency warns that the government's policy will lead to some part of the road network lagging behind and falling into operation. It mainly affects the low-traffic roads in rural areas. Therefore, the Moderates spend half a billion dollars more than the government per year on road maintenance. But, Mr President, we are also clear that the proposed plan is in place, that is to say that the road projects contained in the current national plan are to be implemented. Unfortunately, we have seen directives to the Finnish Transport Administration pointing to the opposite. Hopefully, a major media debate has led the Government and the Government to change back to the old position, but from the Moderates' side we are clear that the road projects contained in today's national plan will be implemented. We have seen this before with Bypass Stockholm, which was frozen at a cost of 170 million SEK for taxpayers, so there is no reason to worry. But, Mr President, we are opposed to an anti-road policy. We will stand up for both road maintenance and decided road projects. The Moderates also see that our railways have major shortcomings: a long-standing decade in decline in maintenance and lack of capacity. It's tight on the tracks. Passenger traffic on the Södra and Västra main railway, among others, needs more capacity. But also the goods in Norrland, for example, need a more robust railway to rely on for our export to work. We want to invest in Swedish railways, but we say no to political prestige projects of now 230 billion to build high-speed trains, which we are afraid will crowd out other important investments. We have heard that this money is to be taken from the national transport plan. This means, by definition, that other things will be squeezed out. I would like to see the calculation that shows that it is possible both to upgrade today's system and to build the new main roads. It is clear, Mr President, that there is neither a timetable nor serious funding in the infrastructure bill. The description is shorter than a page, so it can all go in and read; it goes pretty fast. Mr President, I would like to Socio-economic calculations should at least be interesting to take into account in such a context. They should even be guiding in many cases. The Swedish Transport Administration's own calculations show that high-speed trains lead to a loss of 250 billion in society. This is partly because Sweden's population is small – unfortunately we cannot compare ourselves with Japan or China, either today or tomorrow or probably even the day after tomorrow. The travel profits compared to today's train and flight connections are not large enough for this to go together. The Board of Finance, the Institute of Economics, SNS and several researchers strongly criticize and say that the project costs more than it tastes. Let's listen to that expertise! It is perhaps courageous to invest in major social projects, but it is far more courageous to dare to pull the handbrake when all the warning lights are on. Mr President, I would like to However, the Moderates 'no' applies only to high-speed rail. Other parts of the Swedish negotiation's mission on big cities, bicycle, eastern connection, railway in the north and a new Danish connection should remain. We also want the Ostlink from Järna to Linköping to be built, but in order to reduce costs one should be able to do a review and investigate whether this distance can also be built as a conventional railway for 250 kilometers per hour. The same should apply to the Gothenburg- Borås railway project, which should also take place. These two routes are all or part of today's national plan and should therefore be completed. The Moderates' 'no' is not a 'no' to the railway; it is a yes to the Swedish railway. But we want to expand, upgrade and upgrade those parts of the railway where the need and societal benefit of investment is greatest. Mr President, I would like to The railway's problems are more than crowns and the ring. A year ago, the largest review of Swedish railways was presented in modern times. The investigator Gunnar Alexandersson, together with several heavy-duty representatives of the transport industry, industry and society, made a series of suggestions on how we can ensure better rail traffic and a better rail system in the future. The fact that the government has not even chosen to refer the investigation or return to Parliament with a description of how it intends to act on the basis of the many conclusions and proposals is, in fact, disrespectful to all the work that has been done in the investigation, but also to the companies and people who depend on the operation of the railways. Mr President, I would like to As part of seeing the need for all modes of transport, we should remember that we also have shipping. Maritime transport is important to cope with climate change, but also to relieve road and rail traffic, where it is already crowded. The Alliance government's work on a national action plan to strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish shipping industry and the maritime strategy, which was taken over by the new government, needs to be followed up. It is also important that the government's investigation into how we can make better use of shipping leads to concrete measures. We also see great needs in several of our major ports, which need to receive ever larger ships. Those needs are also important to see, Mr President. Sweden, which in many parts can be likened to an island, has a long coastline and continues to depend on shipping, which accounts for over 90 percent of our exports. Mr President, I would like to To go in for landing at least so small, I was going to talk about aviation, where the differences of opinion between parliament and government may be greatest. Moderates see that aviation is an unbeatable means of transport for long distances in a short time. From a cost perspective, it is also an efficient mode of transport because it does not require large investments in roads or railways. In the light of the fact that Sweden is the country in the EU that has the longest between the senders and is relatively sparsely populated, we will need aviation in the future. The Moderates are therefore opposed to a national airline tax, and a majority in the Transport Committee says, as is well known, that we want a different order. Aviation tax has only marginal climate effects, we have noted in this House today, because about 40% will choose the car and other modes of transport instead. Many of the routes and thus the emissions are only moved. Other countries have introduced the tax and then abolished it because the effect on jobs and growth was so damaging. Mr President, I would like to The Paris climate agreement marked a historic step in international efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The Moderates do not want to go through tax penalties, but instead want to choose smart instruments that enable people and businesses to find better alternatives. Our goal is not to reduce or impair the ability to transport, but to do so in a more sustainable way. During the alliance government, the share of renewables in the transport sector increased almost four times, and the target of reaching 10% of renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020 was achieved marginally. We want to build on the successful policy by increasing the number of charging poles, introducing a bonus – malus system and continuing electrification of our road network. Combining mobility and growth with reduced climate emissions will make Sweden a role model in the world. To conclude, I would like to emphasise once again that it is important that we see from here in this House and from the political side that we need all the modes of transport. It is not good enough to engage in a debate in which we will reward one traffic team and strike another. Nor is it good enough to focus on cutting ties, when we have not managed to take care of the system we have today. There is a need for greater responsibility over political prestige projects in the future. I think we should all carry that with us.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-518	Mr President, I would like to I have participated repeatedly in debates where I have congratulated the previous government – the alliance government that initiated the construction of Sweden. The background was, as we heard in Almedalen in 2014, that there is a need for housing construction here in the country. We have an increasing population. You also write in your reservation that there is an acute housing shortage. This was one of the reasons why Fredrik Reinfeldt presented the Swedish construction initiative: how we could attract regional development and housing construction with a new railway, new main tracks. There are more motives for building new main roads, and it is the cloun itself in this bill, which we support in this House. One is that the trains should go on time. I do not think that people generally recognise the fact that the problems with the railways have been solved. Of course, we need new main tracks for trains at such different speeds to arrive on time. It is impossible on existing railways to bring freight trains, high-speed trains and regional high-speed trains together. You can't overtake the railway, and then you need new main tracks for trains at different speeds to run on time. My question to Jessica Rosencrantz is therefore: how can it be that you have completely left the assessment made by the previous government, that new main roads are needed for trains to function and for housing and regional development to gain power?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-523	Mr President, I would like to I agree that there is an acute housing shortage. It would be appropriate for the Minister of Housing to present some suggestions in this area. However, I do not think that building infrastructure for 230 billion should be the main solution for housing policy. Politics should take on board new facts when we get them on the table. A lot has happened since the construction of Sweden was launched. Now we see that the bill amounts to SEK 230 billion, and it does not end there. We should not even mention everything that is not included – stations, connections and just the fact that most infrastructure projects are usually more expensive than planned. We have also seen from Trafikverket a loss of SEK 250 billion from this project. Then I'm willing to listen. I am also very clear that Swedish railways need to be strengthened and expanded. That does not mean, however, that we in this House need to say yes to uncertain estimates of at least 230 billion. This does not mean using a technology that is twice as expensive as ordinary rail. For the journey Gothenburg – Borås h breathes about 33 billion for 60 mil railway. You can figure out for yourself that some things have happened since we used to say that a mile of railway cost a billion. So it's a very expensive investment. It is, to be honest, more suitable for countries that have more people than Sweden has. Some of us in the committee amused us by visiting Japan. We could say that even Stockholm would not stop with their Shinkansen, because we are too small. All this aside, we want to invest in Swedish railways, but let us do it wisely and responsibly! The government cannot even present a financing or a timetable for what you say your will to build. No one in or outside this House knows exactly what the government wants or when it should be done. We can't give a check in blanco there.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-528	Mr President, I would like to The government says it takes responsibility for the future. The new main routes will be expanded at the rate allowed by the economy. I would like to say that the Moderates are content to patch and fix the existing system. The infrastructure of the 20th century is used. It may be your new party identity-- I'm not that in-depth in your internal discussions-- but I regret that the current that the former alliance government stood for seems to be no longer there. The initiative you took with the Swedish hearing was very forward-looking. Negotiations were held in regions and municipalities and agreed. With the new railway, we can also get new homes built. It is a way in which the state uses its best intentions to cooperate with municipalities in a humble way. I wonder how much you listen to the transport economists, Jessica Rosencrantz. I am often in debates with them. If I had listened to them, the City Tunnel in Malmö would not have existed, and we would not have been able to open the Citybanan next year. They say that the most efficient climate is to increase the CO2 tax to strangle car and air traffic. We want to initiate taxes, but perhaps not at that level, so that it will be the only climate policy instrument. I wonder whether Jessica Rosencrantz has ever been in discussion with these economists and whether the Moderates as a party are prepared to use instruments on aircraft and cars as their only measure to reach the climate target.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-531	Mr President, I would like to In the debate earlier today, it has become abundantly clear that the Green Party and Karin Svensson Smith want to spend money on rail and nothing else. We see that the Swedish transport system is a little more complex than that and that there are many needs, both in terms of the railways and our road network. Therefore, priority must be given wisely. I do not know if I am prepared to agree with Karin Smith that high-speed technology is the latest possible. I don't even know when you want the high-speed railways ready. But if you say that you want them to go by 2040 or 2050 – that would not be 2035, you said, but later – we are 100 years behind many other countries that have introduced this technology. I would like to speculate on what other options we have in 20 to 30 years' time. It is dangerous to lock yourself in a 230 billion technology with an indefinite timetable. So what do we want to do? Well, I said we want to strengthen Swedish railways. We want to continue the alliance government's shift in transport policy. After decades of political parties and governments not taking responsibility, the alliance government doubled maintenance to the railways. We want to continue to bet on that. We want to build new capacity. The current national plan starts Ostlänken and the section Gothenburg – Borås. We want to pursue those routes. There are many needs for double tracks in our country and in some places four tracks. I'm sure there are new lines that we can discuss later. But to give a check in blanco here today and say that we are setting up a system of at least 230 billion with a technology suitable for countries that are more densely populated I cannot do. However, I can promise you, Karin Svensson Smith, and above all the Swedish people, that the Moderates will continue to invest in Swedish railways and on the Swedish road network. We will see that the Swedish transport system is a whole, and we will not accept that it will be neglected again.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-536	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the Riksdag will now support both Swedish Democrats' movements on national railway strategy and address an announcement to the government on this. If the port of Trelleborg were to close down, it would be extremely vulnerable to Sweden. Not long ago, we have seen how rail traffic through Denmark broke down. The port of Trelleborg was then the guarantor of Swedish exports and imports by rail. Chapter 6.3.3 of the Infrastructure Bill is entitled New high-speed rail mainlines. It is probably the biggest investment ever in Sweden, and it is mentioned on half a page in the bill. The Finnish Transport Administration has been faltering in its cost estimate. When the alliance parties presented their Swedish construction, the price tag for high-speed rail was 170 billion SEK. The following year it suddenly flew up to SEK 320 billion, according to the Swedish Transport Administration's estimate. Then the Swedish Transport Administration was backed up by the Ministry of Industry and made a new calculation, so now they have reached 230 billion SEK. Can the Finnish Transport Administration's calculations be trusted at all? We have the Hallandsås tunnel in quite fresh memory. It would cost $1 billion, and where did that check end? It ended at over SEK 10 billion. The cheese link, which was only last year estimated at SEK 35 billion, suddenly rose to SEK 52 billion this spring. This summer the forecast for Ostlinken was basically doubled from the original one and is now close to SEK 70 billion. The Minister for Infrastructure writes in the bill that the expansion should take place at the rate allowed by the economy. If, according to Trafikverket, the construction of high-speed rail is estimated at SEK 230 billion, and only Ostlinken consumes 70 billion of these – that is, 150 km of railway would consume more than 30 percent of the estimated cost of the entire high-speed railway – one does not need to be a rocket scientist to realise that Trafikverket's calculations do not last and that Trafikverket should immediately be removed from everything called railway construction in Sweden. You can compare internationally with China, Japan, India and the United States. When building high-speed rail, it is decided to build direct from A to B. You don't build patchwork. The Chinese built a railway between Beijing and Shanghai, 500 miles [120 km], in five years. In Sweden, Trafikverket needs ten years to build 150 km of railway, i.e. Ostlänken. Mr President, I would like to A possible Swedish high-speed railway is expected to be completed in 20-25 years. It will probably be out-of-date on the day it is inaugurated. There are many exciting projects going on – we are talking about maglev and possibly hyperloop. In 25 years' time, there is a great risk that a Swedish high-speed railway will be out-of-date at the inauguration. Mr President, I would like to First of all, you can't trust the Finnish Transport Administration's calculations. Secondly, high-speed rail is not being built as a patchwork. How do you do the day the patchwork should be sewn together? Let's say the traffic on the Ostlink is starting to run in 2028. We can say that it is operated by regional trains once in a quarter. If the high-speed train is to arrive at the earliest in 2040, I wonder: are they going to displace these regional trains? The Swedish Democrats are not prepared to play Russian roulette with taxpayers' money, especially when we have such an incompetent work that counts on construction. In March 2016, therefore, the Swedish Democrats as their only party took a clear stand against high-speed rail. It is also a purely urban project at the expense of the necessary investments in the rest of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In this connection, I would like to endorse our reservation 24. The idea is for Ertms, the European Rail Traffic Management System, to replace the well-functioning ATC system. The idea of a European signalling system is to facilitate cross-border rail traffic – that's right: facilitating cross-border rail traffic. Ertms is introduced on the pilot tracks Ådalsbanan, Botniabanan, Haparandabanan and Västerdalsbanan. The next experimental course is the Malmbanan. What was it like now? The idea of a common European signalling system is to facilitate cross-border rail transport. Where is the cross-border rail traffic in Norrland? What harm have the Northerners done? I can look at my own region: Skåne. The only trains crossing the border are the Danish EC locomotives, freight locomotives and the Öresund trains. They are already equipped with dual systems and are not in need of Ertms. We can play for the Swedish community with the idea that a European signalling system would facilitate cross-border rail traffic. Is Green Cargo, for example, interested in having his freight locomotives spinning down in Italy? No, of course you're not. It doesn't work in practical terms either. We can experiment with the idea, as it looks on the desk of bureaucrats in the EU, that one and the same train should be able to go all the way from Norrland down to Italy. Then train drivers training is required. Each train driver must have a unique training course for each specific train. Are the Germans going to get training on the Rc locomotives? Are the Italians going to get training on the Rc locomotives? Should Swedish train drivers be trained in Italian locomotives? What happens on the day a Swedish locomotive breaks down in Austria or Italy and the technical management is located in Stockholm? Should the Italian engineer, 60 years old, who does not understand a word of English, call Stockholm and receive technical advice? No. Green Cargo has equipped 33 locomotives with Ertms to no avail, for there has come a new version of Ertms and another new version of Ertms. Each upgrade costs 330 000 SEK per locomotive. So if Green Cargo were to upgrade its locomotives today, it would cost $1 million. I can make an educational comparison, Mr President. I have here an iPhone. It happens quite often that Apple releases new versions of the iOS software. It's 8.0, 8.1 and 8.2. I guess now you're up to 10.1, if I remember correctly. How would we users react if every time Apple releases a new release of iOS, it would cost $500 to make your phone work again? What is not mentioned about Ertms is that this means that all switchboards must be replaced. As usual, there is always a confusion in the problem picture. The Balis and the ATC system are the least of the problems – an almost non-existent problem. The big problem is the switchboards in the country, the switchboards of model 59 and so on. Had I been responsible for the extension, the natural thing would have been to first replace the switchboards from mechanical to computerized and then to invest in Ertms. It would therefore take a break from the introduction of Ertms, in accordance with our reservation. A normal switchboard, Mr President, costs SEK 35 million. Railway expertise estimates that 75% of switchboards have to be replaced when Ertms is introduced. There are about 800 switchboards to be replaced at a cost of SEK 35 million, a total of SEK 28 billion. In order to be able to install Ertms, it is a prerequisite that the switchboards are replaced with a computer switchboard. Ertms will cost, as I say, SEK 35 billion. Then the state will suddenly receive an additional invoice of SEK 28 billion for the switchboards that need to be replaced with regard to Ertms. When was the Minister of Infrastructure going to inform us about this? Many industry representatives have written a lot of debate articles in which they call for a conclusion on the introduction of Ertms. Only one debate has been in favour of Ertms. It was a debate article in Ny Teknik with the title: Sweden needs more efficient signalling systems. As by chance or by no means, that debate article was published on the same day as we had prepared two of the infrastructure bill. The debate article contains a lot of clichés. It says that Ertms allows us to travel across borders in the future without changing trains. We can already do that today, Mr President. They say that the trains are at the right time on the ERTMS tracks in Sweden. Well, that's no wonder, because there are no freight trains. There is a kind of train running on the ERTMS tracks, and those trains are at the same speed. They say: Trains are continuously connected via radio to the ground system and are therefore less vulnerable to interference. If there is a signal failure today with the ATC system, the train stops at a stop signal. The driver's calling past the signal. There's a train delay in maybe five minutes. If Ertms stops working, all train traffic is stationary. It is also claimed that the ATC system would be old. It's not old. It has been a long time since it was installed, but it is still fully modern today, Mr President. I have often wondered where the Transport Agency and the Minister for Infrastructure have got their statements, which are exactly the same as in this debate article. Now I have the answer. It is a representative of the Bombardier who has written the debate article. And it's from Bombardier that the Swedish Transport Administration has received its information. Then the Finnish Transport Administration has made a lot of false statements about the infrastructure. If you do some research and go into Bombardier's international website you will find a very interesting thing. It is none other than Bombardier who manufactures and delivers Ertms. It is clear that Bombardier wants to scrap our functioning ATC system in favour of Ertms. Bombardier wants to make money, and if Sweden is far ahead, Sweden can take the development costs for the upgrade. This has already resulted in Green Cargo having 33 ERTMS equipped locomotives for which they have no use. The Swedish Democrats, like the Center Party, Liberals and Christian Democrats, are not against the introduction of Ertms. But let's say have ice in your stomach! Pause the introduction until Ertms is a reliable system! Let other countries install Ertms! Let other countries take the childhood disease! But don't let the Swedish railway be a playhouse for Trafikverket! And don't let Swedish railways be the experimental workshop for Bombardier at the expense of Swedish taxpayers! Mr President, I would like to In this connection, I would also like to support our joint reservation No 19. I agree with all our reservations. But for time-winning, I only agree to reservations 19 and 24.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-565	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is the third largest country on the surface of the EU. We are peripherally located in Europe and the country with the longest distance between the ends. Maintaining our competitiveness, industrially and in other areas, requires a well-functioning transport infrastructure. This is important for companies to be able to transport their goods, for people to travel easily and for easy commuting to work, training or meetings. A functioning infrastructure is the whole of Sweden's bloodstream that connects the country. It is therefore, of course, crucial that we care for the infrastructure that we have, while making new efforts to strengthen the bloodstream. With the Center Party's policies and planning guidelines, more broad and urgent investments in infrastructure across the country could have been implemented. As an example of such a project, the Centre Party's clear goal of a continued development of Norrbotniabana is mentioned. This does not just apply to the construction of the short stage that the government has just proposed. A centre-party policy had resulted in the need for investment in Swedish transport infrastructure having met in a much more offensive way than is expressed in this bill. On several points, a majority in the Committee on Transport has developed the infrastructure bill in a new and much better direction. The committee proposes no less than five announcements to the government. Firstly, the government will work towards global solutions, where shipping and aviation can bear their climate costs. In reality, this is a very clear signal not to go further with the recent air tax. Secondly, with the introduction of the EU-wide signalling system for trains, Ertms, whose design was well described in the previous speech, the government will work to ensure that this is done in coordination with Sweden's neighbouring countries and in very close consultation with industry stakeholders and taking into account the overall functioning of the railways. Thirdly, the government will defend the 36 regional airports in its announced aviation strategy. Fourthly, the Government will ensure that the Finnish Transport Administration, in preparation for decisions on investments and road and rail procurements, carries out a broad analysis of which method provides the greatest efficiency, benefits and productivity and encourages innovation in the construction industry. This is entirely in line with what has been proposed in Gunnar Alexandersson's very extensive study on the Swedish railway. Unfortunately, this investigation has not even been referred to the Cooperation Government. Fifthly, the government should develop a national strategy for cross-border rail transport in order to reduce the vulnerability of the transport system. Mr President, I would like to With these five announcements, and respectful management of them by the government, I believe that we are improving infrastructure policy in the coming years. The Center Party and the Alliance believe that the government's transport policy in general undermines Swedish competitiveness and strikes at both jobs and growth. The cooperation government's starting point is a little off and means raising taxes and increasing the cost of transport. This hits people and businesses directly and also makes the transition to a fossil-free transport system difficult. Everyone can see that this will worsen the conditions for a country that already has one of the longest distances in Europe. In the infrastructure bill, the Government allocates SEK 164 billion to road maintenance. This is a lot of money, but it is not enough. The Government's own expert authority, Trafikverket, confirms that this cut leads to an even more neglected maintenance of the road network. The main components affected are those forming part of the low-traffic rural network. This means that the lack of maintenance of the roads will hit those parts of the country where much suggests that the car is the only alternative to transport. With the policy put forward by the government in this bill, we are therefore in danger of having a substandard rail system in 12 years' time and a situation where 80% of the road network is worse than it is today. This, of course, is not good enough. The Center Party believes that it is possible to release SEK 15 – 19 billion for maintenance by saying no to the Government's urban environment agreement and by pause the introduction of Ertms and instead increase the focus on operation and maintenance. This money should be spent on a higher level of maintenance of the roads earlier in the planning period than the government intends and to further invest in the neglected maintenance of the low-traffic rail network. The Center Party welcomes the government's statement on the importance of continuing to invest in bearing and frosting in the individual road network, which is the country's largest coherent road system. However, I would like to stress the importance of increasing the overall level of priority for the individual roads and providing the right conditions for both maintaining and developing these roads. Mr President, I would like to I want to say something about the construction of Sweden, or the negotiation of Sweden. This is about a modern green infrastructure that connects Sweden and which the Center Party therefore basically has a positive attitude towards. Today, the capacity of the Swedish railways is not enough, either in northern or southern Sweden. We in the Center Party are convinced that there is a need for strong investment in new investments in rail, in the accessibility of transport infrastructure and in the operation and maintenance of existing infrastructure throughout the country. This is a huge challenge to sort out. Against this background, the Center Party and the Alliance Government initiated the construction of Sweden, which after the election changed its name to the Swedish negotiation. The Centre Party therefore has a positive basic attitude to this new initiative, which reasonably leads to increased mobility. We believe that the high-speed rail project has great potential. At the same time, however, we in the Center Party are concerned about sustainable financing and that the Swedish Transport Administration is induced to maintain a higher degree of cost control in this project. Financing must be carried out in a responsible manner and must not in any way jeopardise other important new investments, reinvestments or maintenance of existing transport infrastructure. This is not the time to feed a cuckoo into Swedish transport policy. The Center Party's position is that the project should be seen as a whole with connections, housing, investments and public transport throughout the country. A high-speed train investment must also include linking high-speed trains and their stations to and strengthening the capacity of existing transport infrastructure so that the availability, robustness and increased capacity will benefit the entire Swedish transport system. The concern with this proposal is that it does not contain very concrete approaches to high-speed trains beyond a benevolent attitude. The Center Party shares this benevolent attitude, but there is still a great deal to be done and decided on. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, new transport infrastructure has mainly always been financed through state funding. However, various forms of co-financing are also an important and possible source of funding. In many other countries, such as Norway, the UK and Australia, the experience of interaction between the public and private sectors in the development and operation of transport infrastructure is much greater than in Sweden. In order to be able to seriously compare and evaluate whether productivity, for example, can increase and whether life cycle costs for investments can be reduced with alternative financing solutions in our own system, we believe that more experience is needed. We therefore believe that the Finnish Transport Administration should be tasked by the State with identifying a number of transport infrastructure projects that could be suitable for alternative forms of financing. Mr President, I would like to Last but not least, I would like to address the gender perspective in this transport debate. In motions relating to the Minister for Infrastructure's proposal, the Center Party has highlighted the issue of how our transport system should meet the needs of both women and men in an equal manner. I believe that equal transport is about giving women and men equal opportunities for, for example, work commuting, training commuting or early schooling. I note that today, women and men travel in different ways and value things like safety and the environment differently in terms of traffic. I would like to stress that, in order to develop a more equal and therefore more sustainable transport system, it is necessary for both women and men to participate in discussions and decisions on matters relating to the transport system. A gender perspective at the planning stage of a new transport infrastructure is essential if the objectives of an equal transport system are ever to be achieved. The Center Party believes that women and men must have the same opportunity to influence the creation, design, management and use of the transport system. One example is to ensure that, in groups with power and influence in the planning process of the transport system, there is an equal distribution between men and women. Furthermore, I would like to point out that women often have a stronger preference for safe traffic environments. I believe that this should be taken into account in the planning work, ranging from the design and lighting of pedestrian tunnels to dead ends, green areas and other places with limited transparency and in connection with transport infrastructure. This was something I said, Mr President, in the form of exercise and in the committee's discussion of the issue of an equal and accessible transport system, and I have received support for these important issues. They are now part of the text of the report. Yes, it can also work in politics at its best, that we listen to and take the impression of each other. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party supports the reservations in which the Center Party is involved, but for time to come, I only support reservations 1 and 16.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-596	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we have been able to agree with the Center on many issues regarding the overall focus on the new high-speed rail line and to write more on gender equality in our report. However, since I have been involved in introducing this gender equality objective in transport policy, I would like to have a little bit more developed by Anders Åkesson how to take better account of what distinguishes men and women when it comes to attitudes to transport, because if women are to be more involved in the design of the transport system, it also applies to charging systems. What separates us, apart from the security that I think we have written quite well about in the committee report, is the attitude when there are conflicts between, on the one hand, accessibility to transport and, on the other hand, responsibility for the environment, the future and the climate. Women are generally quite much more in favour of using taxes and contributions to make the future more habitable for children and grandchildren. I wonder how what I find very laudable interest in gender equality in the Center Party goes with your approach to wear and tear taxes, air taxes and other charges on climate-damaging transport.
i-EQvYfK7oH792LAZZRzPPKS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Svensson Smith, for the question. My position and that of the Center Party is that women must have as much influence as men on the planning, creation, management and use of transport infrastructure. That's a good start. Then, Mr President, my experience with women is that they are generally very wise and, like the Center Party, I am sure that a flight tax, which has almost zero net effects on the climate, is only a way of collecting money from people's pockets without achieving any environmental impact. A kilometre tax, a road user charge for heavy road transport, has nothing to do with the environment and nothing to do with order and order, but rather a way of finding a fiscal reinforcement. There is, of course, no other way to relate to distance than to travel through them. I am not very concerned about, nor do I think, Mr President, that women would have a different view of irrational taxes from a distance than that reported by the Center Party. On the other hand, it is very important that women are given a much greater influence in transport policy than they are today.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-602	Mr President, I would like to In fact, this claim has been investigated. Annika Carlsson-Kanyama-Kanyama and a number of other researchers have investigated the attitude of women and men towards petrol tax, aviation tax and other taxes on transport that have some kind of climate and environmental relevance. And it is the case that women, to a greater extent than men, on average, affirm that economic instruments are also used to adapt transport to the natural laws we have. We are not supposed to be able to change the laws of nature, either the Riksdag or the General Assembly, and then more women than men are prepared for the toll increases needed for both air and road traffic to meet the climate targets. I have another question for Anders Åkesson. Previously, you had a certain focus on cities, the so-called Stureplanscenter. I'm a little curious if you've completely left that trail. Urban environmental agreements are intended to enable cities with specific problems to receive co-financing from the state if they want to invest a little extra in order to use public transport and bicycles for the benefit of citizens. How, then, is it that the Centre Party is saying no to both this and to, which I find even more perplexing, the special investment in public transport in sparsely populated areas that the government has in its funding? I have not quite understood this when I have tried to analyse your position.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-604	Mr President, I would like to I believe that women are sensible, like men, and accept economic instruments with a real impact on what they say they want to influence, the instruments of a type of traffic to which they can relate as consumers. But to construct instruments that punish only those who have a distance in their personal travel or production, which ignores much of the country's opportunities to participate in its development and its production, I believe that neither women nor men find particularly wise nor smart. It is interesting that environmentalist Karin Svensson Smith mentions Stureplanscentern. The Center Party has support both in large cities and in rural areas. This means that we have nothing against our party taking up structures even in the big city. But as a party, we have reacted very strongly to the fact that this government, unlike the alliance government, has re-engaged in local urban projects with government money. The previous government very strictly cultivated what was the state's commitment and what was Lund municipality's involvement in, for example, trams. Mr President, I would like to If Lund Municipality considers trams to be an excellent means of transport in Lund, there should obviously be no obstacle to investing in it, but it should be a municipal decision. Government financial resources should not be sent across the country in any form of beauty contest on primary municipal premises. That's not good enough! The so-called rural effort, which we have also deleted, had little to do with sparsely populated areas. It was certainly very much about railway rails and switches in Hästveda, but as part of the main railway structure it had nothing to do with sparsely populated areas.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-608	Mr President, I would like to There are many constructive elements to the infrastructure plan negotiated by the Left Party with the government. Not least, and unlike in the past, there is a shift towards maintaining the infrastructure we have, and there is a major investment in railway maintenance. Although it is not quite enough to reach the fine-meshed railway network, it is still a major addition to ensuring that the railways maintain the level they need. It is also positive that there is a clear and transparent planning of maintenance in the form of maintenance plans, which is demanded by many who are familiar with how to work better in controlling railway maintenance. We in the Left Party are pleased that we managed to get through an increase in railway maintenance by 10 billion and that we got written in on increased target management towards climate targets instead of just forecasting control. The approach to target management is supported by IVL, KTH and the report on a fossil-free vehicle fleet. So there are many experts who say that we need to set targets for how we reach the climate targets and then plan the infrastructure after that. Otherwise, we'll never make it. According to scientists, technology development is not enough. So this is the approach we need to work on. The government has approached such a way of thinking, which we are happy about. Just as I said in my last speech and as many referred to in the previous debate, the temperature in the Arctic is 20 degrees warmer than normal. According to some researchers, it may be a sign that the climate system is moving in a dangerous direction. We don't know yet, but it could be, which is dangerous. We need to pull the emergency brake. More than before, we are in that position. The climate system reacted faster than the experts thought. We therefore need to invest vigorously in walking, cycling and public transport in order to change the transport sector in this most difficult sector. In this context, it is important to plan the right way for society and to use effective instruments such as urban planning agreements. We provide money, management and help to cities so that they can reduce the need for cars and increase accessibility to good modes of transport such as public transport, cycling and walking. It's a matter of not getting stuck in the road swamp. Research is talking about induced traffic. If you build more roads, there'll be more cars on them. When the committee was in China, we saw examples of this. One day we spent hours in a rented bus because of traffic jams. The next day we swooned on time when we were on the train track. It was so clear which means of transport is the most efficient and smartest in a city with a lot of people. Planning a city filled with traffic is not a smart plan. Traffic congestion is a phenomenon that occurs when building roads, even when building multiple-storey roads. The more roads, the more cars. That is precisely why, for example, the urban environment agreement is important. It is a little strange that the Alliance is saying no to almost all climate control measures. This applies to air taxes, mileage taxes and urban agreements, i.e. both the carrots and the whips. There will be very little left, just a few small charging poles. It won't lead us all the way. The situation is acute and serious. We need to put some pressure on it. We don't have time to simmer. I call for the Left Party's reservation, No. 30, to investigate the social benefits of the Arlanda runway. An analysis of the social benefits in comparison with the corresponding traffic projects will be carried out. We lack this information, and it is important to keep track of it when discussing other OPS projects because we see how high prices there have been on this track. It is completely unreasonable how expensive it has been to travel to Arlanda by public transport. This needs to be looked at in order to ensure that similar solutions are not made in other infrastructure investments. There have been many discussions on the introduction of the new Ertms signalling system. The system has become expensive for many train operators, and there have been major problems on the first routes on which Ertms has been introduced. The Left Party has pushed for us to wait for neighbouring countries and technology to become a more robust system. Ertms will now be introduced, but it will be coordinated with Sweden's neighbouring countries, in close consultation with industry stakeholders and taking into account the overall functioning of the railways. It is important to ensure that the system will work and that the system does not become more expensive. Increased support resources may be needed for smaller train operators to be able to afford this system. The Left Party wants a closer look at this in the future so that actors are not knocked out. It is also important to ensure that the company that produces the technology does not make unnecessary updates that increase the cost to train operators and that, if updates are made, it should be possible to run on older versions. If we do not introduce Ertms when updating the signalling system, the problem, according to the Minister for Infrastructure, is that we would lose 6 billion by first extending the old ATC system and then having to introduce Ertms. It is money that can be used for maintenance, so it is therefore wise to introduce Ertms but with caution and balance and with demands on the companies that develop the technology. With regard to high-speed lines, it shall be ensured that the deployment of new high-speed main lines takes place in a cost-effective manner and that the expansion takes place at the pace allowed by the economy. It is also included in the infrastructure plan that it should not crowd out other necessary investments on the railways throughout the country, such as Norrbotniabanan and regional rail traffic, which is the most important rail traffic if we are to reach the climate targets, according to, for example, the study on a fossil-free vehicle fleet. It is important that we get an infrastructure that reaches climate targets in real terms and that we strengthen the infrastructure throughout the country to build an equal society. In order to live up to and meet the climate targets, it is particularly important that the action plan itself strengthens a sustainable development of society and that we prioritise rail and not as much road as before. Then we follow the FFF investigation, the UN climate panel and a wide range of other climate scientists who point out that social planning is important. One challenge is to talk to our politicians in the regions who can press for important rail investments that many regions want to have priority. We have a framework and will not be able to afford to invest in everything, but we know that many people are calling for a working railway. Then it is good to have a good dialogue in the regions to inspire them to speak in favour of an investment on a lot of rail. This must be done in order for us to achieve climate change in time. There is an increasing urgency. We must also transfer both freight transport and passenger transport from road to rail and maritime transport. Here we should put the priority in the future. It is about the survival of the earth as well as road safety on our roads and overcoming congestion.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-630	Mr President, I would like to For time-winning, I am content to claim the approval of reservations 17 and 19. Otherwise, we Liberals support our own proposals and the alliance-wide proposals we make. Mr President, I would like to My committee colleague Lars Tysklind will deal with shipping, cross-border infrastructure in the Nordic region and the rural perspective. What challenges does Sweden face? How can we create the conditions for growth throughout the country? It looks very different for the municipalities in Sweden. Sweden's most densely populated municipality has 5 307 inhabitants per square kilometre. On average, 23 people per square kilometre live in Sweden. In the sparsely populated municipality of Sweden there are 0.2 people per square kilometre. This means that the conditions are very different when building infrastructure. All regions have needs, and everyone has wishes too. It's about roads, tracks, airports, ports, shipping and cycle paths. It is also about passenger and freight transport. Transport systems are society's bloodstream. They create opportunities for growth and jobs throughout Sweden. Liberals see other solutions coming years than the government, and this affects the initiatives we present. We believe that funding is a key issue in terms of both building new infrastructure and maintaining existing infrastructure. Today, there is a complete lack of a holistic approach to funding by the government. The government should analyse and coordinate different funding options, but instead make proposals without a holistic approach and funding. The government is allocating 622.5 billion. Liberals are spending 623.5 billion. So we are spending EUR 1 billion more. Why? Because bike bets are missing from the government plan. The government allocates EUR 52 billion to investments in certain road and rail projects, which are financed by congestion taxes or road charges. We in the Liberals are allocating 80 billion in order to launch more projects. We want to get more infrastructure projects started. This is possible by reviewing the financial solutions available. The government is investing 125 billion in railway maintenance. Liberals are spending 144 billion on railway maintenance. Trains should be on time. Mr President, I would like to Small measures should be kept small. By taking many smaller measures, capacity and accessibility can be improved on the tracks. We want to see investments in the low-traffic routes that actually have traffic. Other low-traffic routes that never have traffic can be set aside. We want to see greater reliability and accessibility of the railways, so that more people choose to ride trains or send goods by rail. We believe that a solution should be found for the East Link and that there is a new link with Denmark, but it is important to adapt the solutions in order to achieve efficiency from A to B. We believe in digital developments, as has been mentioned earlier today. We believe that infrastructure and congestion charges can be designed dynamically through the opportunities created by digitalisation. Mr President, I would like to The government wants to continue the introduction of the new Ertms signalling system. The idea of a common European signalling system is to facilitate cross-border rail transport. However, we in the Liberals are deeply concerned by the sharp criticism that exists from many actors about, among other things, cost increases, delays, uncertainty and operational problems. Ertms is not fully developed or standardised at EU level. Apparently, there's supposed to be about 50 different dialects. There are countries that are going to take it a little slower with the introduction, for example Germany. The question is: What happens to the next stage, what happens to Malmbanan and what happens to the ore transport if this uncertainty persists during implementation? What are their options if it doesn't work? Liberals want to pause because of the technical problems, the economy and the malfunctions. We think it was very interesting to hear Emma Wallrup from the Left Party today, who is now also on the same line, to review the implementation of Ertms. We are concerned that the introduction of the signalling system may lead to new entry barriers on the market because the cost of upgrading the locomotives means that some operators refrain. The 2009 work plan is being revised because implementation has not progressed at the pace envisaged in the EU. This work is now under way. The question that emerges is: what message has the government and its partners sent in connection with the revision of the new work plan? The work is in progress right now. What message has Sweden sent, made sure that changes are made to the work plan? Does the approach remain that implementation should continue, or will it send out the message of country-to-country adjustment and review of all the problems that exist? The question hangs in the air. We find it remarkable that the cost of switchboards is not included in the calculation, as has also been mentioned in the debate. We Liberals believe that the impact and impact should be assessed in other countries. In addition, additional financial space will be created during the break to take additional maintenance measures that will benefit the railways. Actors must be allowed to give their sight. Many of them say the same thing: that you should pause until you know how it will be. What does the announcement mean – should it be paused or not? Mr President, I would like to A functioning infrastructure is crucial for the whole of Sweden to live. Access to good roads, railways, public transport and cycling routes is essential for people's ability to get to and from work, but also to school and leisure activities. We therefore believe that a holistic approach should be taken to the needs of infrastructure. We don't believe in pitting different modes of transport against each other. We need aviation, rail, road, maritime transport and – not least in our cities – a bicycle in order for people to be able to commute and travel. We also believe that consideration should be given to the pace of action. What does the four-step principle mean? How has this principle been taken into account with regard to different types of measures, not least the high-speed lines? Mr President, I would like to Cycling should be regarded as a mode of transport, as we have mentioned earlier here today. This is important in order to make it clear what efforts can and should be made and to be able to follow up on their implementation. We want to see a centre of excellence and gather knowledge and best practice so that we do not have to repeat the mistakes and use the money wisely. We do not believe in the urban environment agreements. The infrastructure bill shows that even the government does not, because there is no extension to 2029. The money allocated for any cycling measures is indicated for the year 2017. Mr President, I would like to When it comes to gender equality, we believe it is important that we consider what our travel patterns look like. Traffic analysis has reported on the statistics and what our travel looks like. Car travel is dominated by men. When it comes to travelling by public transport, more women use it. We Liberals believe that public transport should be reliable, safe and attractive. We note that, for example, here in Stockholm, where we are now, the proportion of bus passengers travelling less than 7 kilometres is mostly women – 60 percent. They take the bus, and we think this should be part of the decision-making process. Mr President, I would like to It costs to expand infrastructure. As I said, funding is absolutely crucial, and that is why we believe that we need to look at other forms of funding, as is the case in other countries. We believe that OPS can be developed. There may be different models for this type of solution. We also believe that other ways of financing should be reviewed. If there are actors who are prepared to build, operate and finance – let them do it! We need a lot of infrastructure in a partly sparsely built country. This is happening in the Nordic countries, the EU, the USA and elsewhere. We think we should look at the solutions that exist. There we think the government has been far too passive. The only complementary method seems to be co-financing from municipalities, and we do not think that is enough. Mr President, I would like to We are absolutely convinced that there are plenty of roads in the country that need to be improved in order to maintain viability. That's why they need to be frostproof. I would also like to mention the state routes and indeed the snowmobile routes, which are not being adequately maintained today. We think it should be self-evident to ensure that it is done. We in the Liberals have said no to the high-speed lines. It is about the price tag that was 140 billion but which is now 230 or up 320 billion. It gives too little effect in terms of cost. That is why we shall find other solutions, which we have also presented. We believe that the new technological solutions will create new opportunities over time. It could be magnetic trains, it could be hyperloop or something else. But we have to keep up with developments. We believe in driverless trains and cars, electric highways and more. The climate impact of aviation can be affected by the development of new fuels and the technological development of aircraft. More efficient routes and approach corridors are needed. But we also believe that land transport should be included when we look at the environmental impact of aviation. Mr President, I would like to Soon one of this year's weekends, Christmas and New Year's weekends are approaching, with many travelers visiting their loved ones. Transport means more than labour commuting and freight transport. Transport also contributes to building relationships – human relations, nationally and globally. Sweden and the world are connected. Let us acknowledge this.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-664	Mr President, I would like to I have to start by correcting Nina Lundström. It is not that the government is in any way sceptical about urban agreements. But exactly how the investment framework is distributed, the government returns to the definition of the national plan. I believe that there is good reason to believe that we will continue to invest in urban agreements. But that's not why I asked for a line. I did that to discuss rail traffic. I think the Liberals' reservation on regional rail and low-traffic traffic is quite sympathetic. I agree with these assessments as to how important it is for people to continue to commute trains even on the routes where it is not at its most densely populated. I'm curious about reservation 10. It rejected Nina Lundström. I think there is a certain gap. You can like train traffic on low-traffic tracks. This is very effective. Train traffic is superior in terms of energy, materials and surface area in relation to many other modes of transport. But the Liberals are opposed to new high-speed trains. On the other hand, reservation 10 states that they want to invest in hyperloop, which is a concept that involves travelling in capsules in a tube with very low air pressure at high speeds. Is this the alternative to transport between Stockholm and Malmö and Stockholm and Gothenburg? I am very much in favour of technological development and the future. But would it not be a good point to use instead the technology used in Japan, China, Spain, France and others, that is, high-speed rail? Is the estate supposed to be in the pods, too?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-667	Mr President, I would like to This reservation is about looking forward and following with regard to research and innovation and the development that exists. Previous speakers have pointed out that the government and its partners do not indicate when the so-called high-speed routes should be completed or whether there is funding for them at all. We believe that developments are taking place very quickly and that we must follow what is happening in the outside world. Karin Svensson Smith did not mention the development of maglev trains, which float on the magnetic field, also in Southeast Asia. There are also many other solutions. What we think is very problematic is that the high-speed lines were initially estimated at around 140 billion. Now we have heard the figures of 230, 250 and 320 billion without connections and other costs to ensure that these runways are in place. Nor have we heard anything about the funding from the government at all. It is said that it will happen as the economy allows it. We believe that we need to think about how we get from A to B in the wisest, smartest and most effective way. You have to start there. We believe that there should be links down to Linköping. We will make sure to develop the infrastructure also in other regions of Sweden. But we need to think about how this is to be done. This is the big challenge. In addition, we already have runways that need to be maintained. Karin Svensson Smith owes the answer here. How will you finance the initiative, and when will the initiative be in place? Then the question is which technique would have been better and more suitable.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-673	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is about getting from A to B, from Stockholm to Malmö and from Stockholm to Gothenburg and to a number of stations in between and doing so in the most efficient way. However, the government's assessment, and I think we share it with many others, is that new main rails with the possibility of high-speed trains running at 320 kilometres an hour are a way to follow with us and to make use of technological advances instead of investing in the technology of the last century. We probably have no reason to believe that either hyperloop or maglev trains are a cheaper way to get from A to B on these stretches. Does Nina Lundström have any price information on what it would cost in that case? I also have another question concerning reservation 31. There, the Liberals talk very far-sightedly about using different price mechanisms and charges, as is done in many parts of the country. Depending on the target to be met, the price may vary and be an effective instrument for achieving accessibility. I share that view. But why does this not apply to air traffic and lorry traffic? The price can probably be quite important and influence even there if you are to get a good performance and distribution between road, rail and shipping. Why do you say no to a price mechanism that you otherwise think is effective? I believe, for example, that both parking and congestion charges are a good and market-oriented way of getting supply and demand to meet each other. But why should this not apply to truck and air transport?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-677	Mr President, I would like to The point or purpose of economic instruments is to be able to control when alternatives exist. In many different parts of Sweden there are no alternatives. There must be aviation, and there must be transport on the road because there are simply no other alternatives. We believe that there can be two approaches to the various instruments that exist. One is that they are seen as funding. The second is that they are seen as a way of controlling traffic with congestion charges, such as in the region we are in right now. One way is also to use user charges to finance. Internationally, it is a way of financing new infrastructure, for example in Norway. We think that is very wise. The other way is congestion charges to be able to switch to other modes of transport. But there are regions where there is no alternative. That is also why the debate on the state of regional airports in Sweden is so incredibly important. With long distances, this may be the only opportunity for growth and economic activity in parts of the regions. If there are no tracks that can work for goods transport, lorries must continue to roll on the roads. It is also part of the growth for Sweden and the different regions in order for them to be able to use the potential that exists in the business sector and where there are no alternatives. We believe that the focus of the government and the cooperation parties is detrimental to Swedish growth. It does not benefit companies, and it does not benefit growth so that people can live in the whole of Sweden and do business. We believe that you can have instruments. But then they should be intelligently designed and not put away the feet of regional growth that is so badly needed. My question to Karin Svensson Smith remains, namely how you will resolve the issue of growth if you pull your feet off the infrastructure.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-685	Mr President, I would like to Good communications are a prerequisite for Sweden to be able to develop its wealth, increase employment and strengthen its competitiveness. For a sparsely populated country such as Sweden, transport is of particular importance. The Christian Democrats' transport policy is based on people being able to live and work throughout the country. A well-developed and efficient transport system of roads, railways, air connections and shipping, as well as fast telecommunications and data communication, is therefore an important prerequisite for the future development of Sweden as a whole. Efficient communications and transport are crucial for companies to be able to operate even in smaller locations and for us to enable work commuting to and from the cities. Mr President, I would like to The new European Ertms signalling system is being developed to improve the safety and efficiency of the rail network and to allow cross-border rail traffic. The introduction is not unproblematic for train operators, with both operational disruptions and high costs. The replacement of the old ATC system with Ertms costs about SEK 1 million per locomotive, which is millions in costs for train operators. For the state, this is estimated to cost about SEK 30 – 40 billion. Already when the new signalling system is installed, an update is required, which costs about 300 000 SEK per locomotive. There is no need to experiment with a new European signalling system that does not feel quite ready. Some European countries have put this effort into the future. Sweden has the right to request an exemption from Ertms from the European Union and to pause its introduction. The Christian Democrats want to pause the effort on Ertms, Mr President. Instead, we want to invest SEK 19 billion in road and rail maintenance, which has a large maintenance debt and is in need of major maintenance work. We want to reallocate this EUR 19 billion from the financial framework for the development of the transport system, which covers EUR 333.5 billion. With the Christian Democrats' proposal, this appropriation will be EUR 314.5 billion. We want to reallocate this EUR 19 billion as follows: we invest EUR 10 billion more in railway maintenance and EUR 9 billion more in road maintenance. It is a necessary effort to increase the robustness of roads and railways. The financial framework for state railways is 135 billion instead of 125, and the economic framework for state roads is 173 billion instead of 164 billion. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish railway is old, and the Swedish main roads are 150 years old. They have served Sweden well for a long time, but it is now clear that they are not enough. They have a lack of capacity and a lack of quality. Both passenger and freight traffic are suffering, and the socio-economic costs are high due to various breakdowns in the system that stop traffic. We want to see new main roads built. The railways are of great importance for growth and contribute to the development of the country. This means that we are not closing the door to any alternatives, but we are calling for responsible funding. It shall be made through appropriations and shall not crowd out existing investments and maintenance needs. A high-speed track, or new main lines, must not crowd out maintenance or important new investments in the rest of the infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats see great benefits from new high-speed trains, and we are in favour of Sweden's negotiations. New high-speed routes would provide better conditions for working and living in different parts of the country through shorter travel times, new housing around the station locations and a densification of labour market regions. They would also enable more rail freight services and more efficient passenger services, thus strengthening the competitiveness of Sweden as a whole. As part of the Swedish negotiation is Ostlänken, with a planned construction start in 2017. It should be completed during this planning period. This route, which is about 150 km long double-track high-speed railway between Järna and Linköping, should be given high priority. It is important to get started after that to also build new main tracks on the route Gothenburg – Borås. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are not closing the door to high-speed roads. The Swedish negotiations are ongoing, and proposals for funding and implementation should be presented. It is too early to take a final position on the issue of starting to build high-speed lines in accordance with the proposed proposal. For example, no agreement has been reached on co-financing with Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö yet. An investment of around 230 billion must have sustainable financing. We believe that the fiscal framework should be maintained and that new baselines need to be funded responsibly. The part to be financed by the State shall be financed in accordance with the budgetary rules in force. Mr President, I would like to A large part of the infrastructure is in need of new investments, not least in the Stockholm area, which is growing rapidly. There are also several connections of national interest. One of these is the Södertälje Bridge, which this summer was almost collapsing after a serious accident. The bridge is the only connection across Södertälje Canal for two of the country's most important roads – E4 and E20. Although the accident occurred during the summer, it cost over 100 million in, among other things, lost income, and it cost 20 million to repair the bridge. Against this background, Mr President, the Christian Democrats want to review the possibility of a new link across the Södertälje Canal during this planning period. Mr President, I would like to Stockholm is one of the few capital cities in Europe that do not have a traffic ringway around the capital. At the same time, Stockholm is growing rapidly, which requires an infrastructure that can meet this. In order to create good conditions for regional development in the Stockholm region and reduce traffic in the inner city, it is important that the road project Östlig lägen, i.e. a ring road from Ropsten in the north to Nacka in the south, is built to create a complete traffic route around Stockholm. Mr President, I would like to Decennial underinvestments have led to the serious situation on the road and railways we find ourselves in today. The maintenance debt is growing, and several roads are at the end of their life cycle. The railway has a lack of capacity, a lack of quality and is hard hit as traffic is constantly increasing. This is a very serious situation, which needs to be addressed. Otherwise there is a high risk that jobs will disappear and growth will decrease. The Christian Democrats therefore want the government to develop a national road and rail maintenance plan. Mr President, I would like to The aim of the Christian Democrats is for more and more transport to take place environmentally friendlyly, and then the train is one of our best modes of transport. We want to increase the capacity on the tracks, but we also need to increase the capacity of individual freight trains – something the industry also wants. We want to prepare and adapt Swedish railways according to the train lengths that apply in Denmark and Germany. Mr President, I would like to According to the Swedish Transport Agency, approximately 90 per cent of Sweden's foreign trade is transported by sea, and approximately 30 million passengers per year are transported by ferry to and from Sweden's neighbouring countries. The Swedish maritime sector and all surrounding companies employ approximately 100 000 people. Maritime transport is therefore used primarily for international transport. If we are serious about switching to a more climate-friendly transport system, inland waterways also need to be used for more freight transport. To make this possible, there is a need for a substantial upgrading of inland waterway infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to The government has opened up to introduce a kilometre tax. That makes me very worried. I'm worried about the jobs and the competitiveness of the business community. Trucks account for 90 per cent of Sweden's domestic goods transport. The total cost of the haulage industry is estimated to be around 5 billion per year. Often there is no alternative to a truck. The goods must be transported to the railway, to the port, to the wholesalers, to the shops, etc. One mile tax will take out many haulage companies. A number of companies will have to resign road hauliers. These are anti-nutrition policies. The survey of the mileage tax should be placed in the trash can immediately. Mr President, I would like to The government is not on the lazy side when it comes to deteriorating Swedish business. Recently there was an investigation into national air taxes. It is a flight tax that risks reducing travel by over 1.2 million trips per year and can cost up to 10 000 jobs. Many regional airports may be forced to close. This affects both tourism and work commuting, as well as many small and large companies. In Norway, a similar flight tax was introduced. Ryanair then stopped flying to Backa Airport. As a result, the airport had to be closed down, and several hundred jobs disappeared. The Netherlands abolished its flight tax after only one year. This is the wrong way to go. A national airline tax hits families hard, increases foreign travel, increases the cost of work commuting and makes it difficult for small and large companies to set up in certain places. The tourism industry, in particular, will be severely affected. National air tax is harmful and hampers growth in the country. The airline tax will take out a large part of the regional airports in the country. The Christian Democrats say no to national air taxes. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is the world's second best country for innovation, according to the Global Innovations Index. For this we should feel grateful to all entrepreneurs and innovators who are working seven days a week all year round for believing in their ideas. We in politics have a responsibility to set good rules for them. But it is the individual people who invest their lives and their money to realize their ideas that make a difference. The automotive industry is facing a new era. For safer and more efficient transport, autonomous cars are also needed. The Christian Democrats want Sweden to be at the forefront of both self-governing cars and electric cars. That is why we want the government to develop two strategies, one for autonomous vehicles and one for electric cars. Mr President, I would like to We support the joint reservations of the Alliance and the reservations of the Christian Democrats. I call for the approval of reservation 18, 19 and the alliance joint reservation 1.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-708	Mr President, I would like to So we are debating this product – the bill – which I am now showing to Members of this House. It's a product that I'm very proud of. It is a future-oriented and ambitious product, pointing out a direction for infrastructure development in Sweden over the next twelve years. Besides, it's pretty good-looking, if you don't mind if I say so myself. I haven't stood for the looks, but the contents I stand for. I'm going to start by saying two things about what this isn't. It is not a transport policy bill. So everything we want to do in the field of transport is not here. This is a bill that shows how we want the infrastructure – i.e. tracks, roads and fairways – to develop. Nor is it a national plan that points out all the objects that will be contained in the forthcoming national plan. This is a focus and a scope. The scope is quite much larger than the previous framework in this area. We are adding more than 100 billion, in addition to what is in the current plan. We will have plenty of money to move with during the next planning period. And it's needed. We are facing major challenges in Sweden. We have an increasing population. The railway has been lagging behind in maintenance, since quite a long time ago. We have an ambitious policy on accessibility across the country, on the development opportunities of export companies, on job growth and on new housing. For all these areas, transport infrastructure is extremely important. In the infrastructure bill, we attach importance to having a cross-modal approach. So we do not set different modes of traffic against each other. It is a question of designing a system in which the different modes of transport complement each other and which exploits the potential of different modes of transport. In this bill, we also focus heavily on the railways. Basically, it is extremely positive that more and more people choose to travel by train. Because that's how it is with you. But those who want to ride trains have some challenges. The courses we have today are quite old. They're in parts pretty worn out. And today there are actually more people who want to drive trains than there is room for on the tracks. We are facing a challenge that means that we need to maintain and care for the facility we already have. After all, it is the largest part of the infrastructure. Even if we have high ambitions, we will not build more infrastructure than we already have. This means that we need to put far more effort into maintaining and caring for what we have. But we cannot be content with that. The lack of capacity that we see in today's railway facility cannot only be maintained away. We will have to be able to think new and take heights to make new investments in new infrastructure. When you listen to the debate in this House today, you can get the impression that there are huge differences in the way the parties view the needs of the infrastructure system in the future. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that we are largely in agreement. We agree that we need to do more on the railway side. We agree that we need to raise the level of ambition. We agree on the need for a further shift in the transport sector. And we agree that housing and the connection to infrastructure are important. I believe that precisely the consensus in the broad, important perspectives is important, not least for all those who now expect us politicians to take responsibility for developments in this area. The business community is calling for broad consensus. Many individual companies demand broad consensus. Many interest groups, municipalities and others expect us to have at least broad consensus on these major, important investments. We are convinced that we need to place greater emphasis on the link between housing construction and infrastructure. Today, we have a housing shortage in all the municipalities in the country. Only a few years ago, people talked about housing shortages in the big cities. A few years later, there was talk of housing shortages in the large municipalities. Today we can say that there is a housing shortage in almost all Sweden's municipalities. If we are to build away that housing shortage while ensuring that people can have reasonable commuting times and job opportunities, we also need to expand the infrastructure. Otherwise, we risk losing important growth targets by preventing the lack of housing from benefiting from a strong boom. We also see a huge need to continue changing the transport sector. The transport sector today faces a major challenge of reducing its climate emissions. It will not be enough to build up infrastructure. Here, too, we cannot build ourselves solely into a sustainable transport system, but it is obviously of great importance that we make the right investments in transport systems and in infrastructure systems. There we will continue to move forward, partly through the huge investments that we are now making in rail maintenance and partly by enabling new investments to be made. We will also come back in other contexts with other measures that do not fit in with an infrastructure bill, but are required from elsewhere. In this bill we also state that we will need to build new main roads in Sweden. We need to build together Stockholm and Gothenburg respectively Stockholm and Malmö with more efficient rail transport. There is a fairly broad consensus in the Swedish Parliament on this. I would like to point out that this is not the dividing line between the government parties and the opposition, but it goes through the former alliance parties, the parties that started the construction of Sweden as late as 2014. It was then stated that Sweden would implement the construction of new high-speed lines and that this would be combined with a large housing commitment. I think that the then alliance government was quite right to bet on the construction of Sweden. We continue to dare, even when others wimp out. The new capacity that this investment would bring will be needed, perhaps not in the shortest perspective, but if we assume that Sweden will continue to grow, that there will be further urbanisation, that we want successful export industries and working freight railways in Sweden, then this is a necessary initiative. What the question is really about is whether or not we need new capacity, although it may sound like that in the debate. What the question is really about is whether we should build the new capacity with old or new technology. That's where the government thinks we should build with new technology. At the same time, it is important to say that the expansion should take place at a pace that the economy allows. As always, we should treat taxpayers' money with care. We shall ensure that these bets do not crowd out other urgent bets. But we need to establish that this is the path we're going to take. I am quite convinced that as this work progresses, there will be a broad consensus on how we should relate to the development of new main roads in the future. This, of course, includes the question of new technologies, because this is a new technology. I have great confidence that technology can solve many of the challenges we face. We have only seen the beginning of what digitalisation and automation can mean to change infrastructure and transport systems. Ultimately, we are using the systems that we have as efficiently as possible. By becoming an increasingly connected infrastructure, real-time information to both passengers and freight ports and more or less self-driving vehicles on both roads and tracks, we will have a more efficient use of the existing infrastructure, both in terms of freight flows and in terms of passenger transport. I would like to conclude my speech by making a small look outside Sweden's borders. Many of our transport, not least in terms of the transport of goods, does not stop at the borders of our country. We have a large-scale cross-border work commuting. There is also a strong dependence on cross-border transport for both imports and exports. Trafikverket has been commissioned to develop an action plan for the next planning period. Then it is important to keep the international perspective high in the continued work. We in here agree that the accessibility of the goods needs to be valued. I see in front of me that we also need to strengthen cooperation both with our Nordic neighbours – which I have taken the initiative in the past – and within the EU, because a very large part of our export market is in the EU itself. The development of the transport system does not stop as this parliamentary debate ends today, but it is a work that will continue, partly because we have commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to return with an action plan, partly because we will have to take many courageous – perhaps new and slightly different – decisions to meet the need for accessibility and for efficient transport for people and goods – to meet the climate challenge at the same time. I look forward to continued good cooperation on these issues. I am convinced that on the really important major issues we will achieve a consensus between almost all parties in this House.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-734	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we agree in some respects. We agree that efforts are needed on Swedish railways and on maintenance and capacity. But there is no consensus in the Swedish Parliament that the 230 billion on high-speed trains is the right way to go. Rather, there is a very big split, to be honest. You can land in different conclusions. But the Minister was a little upset that it was not so long ago that the construction of Sweden was presented. Then I'd like to ask the government how willing she is to take on new facts. There are quite a few new facts on the table since then. I rarely hear the government parties analyse the figures for a cost of at least 230 billion. As someone said earlier, they might as well go up to 320 billion, we don't know that. The Finnish Transport Agency estimates a loss of 250 billion in society. Are these figures completely irrelevant to the government parties as we move forward with this effort? We might as well build for new technology, they say. It depends on how you look at new technology. France started building high-speed trains in the 80s and Japan in the 60s – new and new. Above all, it is double so expensive technology compared to ordinary rail. If you want to benefit from the money, you could possibly end up in a different conclusion. I agree that it's a nice product and a nice front, but it's actually pretty thin. The Swedish hearing is mentioned on one page. Can the Government give us in this Chamber today any indication as to when high-speed trains are expected to be completed? If she can't give an exact date, she might give at least a decade. And what funding? I understand that it is funding that applies. If so, what routes should be included in the plan that comes, and how much are they calculated to cost?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-740	Mr President, I would like to In addition to the presentation of a negative NPV ratio for the project, it is noted that the alternative – i.e. to add new capacity in existing routes with existing technology – provides quite exactly the same negative NPV ratio. What Trafikverket also points out is that the project with new main roads probably adds other benefits that are not captured in the calculations as opposed to old technology in the existing route. It is clear that we are also analysing the figures presented. The fact that this is to be done in a way that is socio-economically justifiable means that we will not give an end date for when the initiative will be completed. This will, of course, be affected by the future evolution of government finances. If the accident were to occur and there would be a change of government with new huge tax cuts over several years in a row, the resources available for infrastructure expansion would of course be limited – to take an example. You can also imagine other things happening in the outside world that affect the pace at which you can carry out an expansion. It is also, of course, about the resources required in other parts of the infrastructure system. We are clear that this should be balanced against other needs and that it should not be dealt with so as to finance first the development of high-speed rail and then see what is left for other purposes. All the initiatives we are making in the future will be based on the same priority principles. This is important in the debate.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-745	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the Swedish Transport Administration has presented alternative calculations. What would it cost to invest in the existing track? We can see that building high-speed trains is twice as expensive – we can at least agree on that – compared to a complete alternative: upgrading the existing main line. What is a bit problematic, Mr President, is the air castles that the government is building. You say that you are in favour of building high-speed trains, but when you look a little closer at the whole thing you can see that what is to be built is the Ostlink and the track between Gothenburg and Borås. There has been some uncertainty about the latter in other debates in this House. But okay, it will be Ostlinken and Gothenburg – Borås. Then you've said we'll see. Yet you stand and speak very famishedly that there will be a whole system. In theory, then, this could be done in a hundred years' time. There is no timetable. The only thing I have heard the Government say is that it will not be 2035, as the Swedish hearing has indicated, but rather later. It is wise not to rush off worse than that, but it is also problematic. At some point we should plan long-term for what we want to do with our infrastructure. It can be decided that the Western Tribal Line, the Southern Tribal Line and the needs of the industry in Norrland will be taken care of. In parallel, however, we cannot discuss an investment of 230 billion, which unfortunately does not achieve the objective either. This worries me. What we want is to ensure that goods are transported properly but also that regional work commuting works. None of this is solved by building new main roads. There it will be about high-speed trains running between our three largest cities and nothing else. Otherwise, it is totally unnecessary to use an expensive technology based on the long-distance traffic. I regret that we cannot be told in detail when these systems are planned to be completed. I also think you live in a dream world if you're going to get space for this without it crowding out anything else. In that case, the Swedish Transport Administration's calculations of the actual needs of our road network and of our railways have been missed.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-751	Mr President, I would like to It is not quite the way Jessica Rosencrantz says that this would only accommodate high-speed trains from end to end. A major advantage of building new main rail lines and providing capacity on routes where there is currently no railway is to weave new locations into the total rail system. This is also not uninteresting, as it could be. If you chose to walk with Maglev, Hyperloop or any other very new technology you would not have an opportunity to reroute or connect continued traffic for example up to Arlanda Airport or down to Kastrup. It would be a contained system. Instead, we provide capacity through a technology that enables commuter train traffic and frees up capacity for freight trains on the current Southern and Western main rail lines. In some parts, stages of the new main tracks will also be added to the capacity of what is today the Southern and Western Main Lines. The pace at which this will be expanded will be determined by the needs of the transport system, the socio-economic calculations made and the state financial development. I find it very difficult to see that it would be more responsible to stab in with a year. We need to know more, and we need to investigate more. At every opportunity, we need to balance different needs with each other so that we have as much access as possible for as much of the population and business as possible at the lowest cost to taxpayers as possible.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-755	Mr President, I would like to It would be very good if the consensus could develop. I would like to come back to the issue of consensus where we in Sweden could work within the framework of EU cooperation to facilitate. This applies not least to the malfunctions within Ertms that many of us have been involved in. The Government's proposal is worded as Ertms: Many of the stakeholders have contacted both the Ministry and the members of the committee on this matter. They have described the challenges, the concerns about continuing operational disruptions and the development that is taking place around the world. Speaking of technology development, we know that China is developing a different type of technology. We also know that this is about the nine cross-border corridors. In the light of the concerns that exist, and which many in the committee are also putting pressure on, I am becoming perplexed at what the government's line will be. There is a revision of action plans, and there is room for discussion. There are also discussions in other countries. In view of all this, I would like to ask the Government a couple of questions: What line is Sweden taking in the discussions that are going on right now? How will the concerns expressed also in the committee's reading, discussions and debate reflect the continued management of the action plan?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-758	Mr President, I would like to The current government makes no other assessment of either the rate of expansion or needs than the previous government in relation to Ertms. The plan is solid, and we are pursuing the planning that the then alliance government started. The current planning period has taken height to introduce Ertms in Sweden. One is exactly in line with the demands that the European Union is making on us. They will be completed on the core network in Sweden by 2030. We have no ambition to abandon it. On different occasions, however, we have expressed the importance that the Finnish Transport Administration really ensures that the technology works better from the start when moving forward with new stages than has been the case when it has previously been introduced. The Finnish Transport Administration has no other opinion. Moving forward with, for example, the Malmbanan, which is extremely critical of the mining industry, should ensure that the disruptions in its introduction are as small as possible and that as much as possible has been prepared by learning from the introduction of the previous stages. We also see a great need to have close contact with various other stakeholders, such as operators, municipalities and others, to ensure that we have as broad a consensus as possible. At the same time, both the government and members of parliament have a responsibility to look after the social benefits and not only the interests of individuals. We need to ensure that we have a signal system that holds for the future and facilitates cross-border transport. The government sees nothing but that Ertms is the solution that we need to proceed with.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-761	Mr President, I would like to What is problematic when making political decisions is, of course, when they lock solutions into a technological choice. I think it would sometimes be good if we thought about how to design the best possible function without locking into a technology solution. Of course, I share the view of the Government that the issue has been going on for a long time. Even before the alliance government, it was up to preparation level. Nevertheless, it is interesting to note that the 2009 work plan needs to be revised, because implementation within the EU has not gone as planned. In the light of the discussion on challenges, difficulties, risk images and reactions, as well as other countries conducting a similar discussion, I think it would be good to still think about what this means in the Swedish context when there is now an opening and opportunity to influence the future. One way of doing this is to involve the government in the further discussion of the action plan. However, I take it that there will be no such packages. Finally, I would like to comment on the urban environment agreements. I refer to page 63 of the printed product presented by the Government. It states that the urban environment agreements are valid until 2018, and should then be extended.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-766	Mr President, I would like to As I understand it, there is no indication that the Commission would change its mind as regards the ambition for Ertms to be introduced in all Member States by 2030. However, the timetable of individual countries can be changed. Denmark has used to be highlighted as an example. It postpones implementation from 2021 to 2023. But essentially this extension continues. The aim is to facilitate cross-border traffic and ensure compatibility between different transport systems in Europe, which is, of course, very positive. Then I agree that regulations and levels of ambition which are as technology-neutral as possible and which aim at function and objectives are desirable. There is parallel work going on in the EU and in Sweden with our national laws and regulations to make legislation and regulations in different areas more goal- and function-based. For example, in the case of drones, it may be clearer that this is the way forward with regard to EU legislation. However, it is difficult to achieve compatible systems without any technical requirements. In this case, I think it's a little bit like the train's gone. I do not think it would be successful to wait for the next technological revolution to take place, because then we may have to wait quite a long time. This is a demand that the European Union places on us, and we must comply with it. The ambition is that we will continue to have an urban environment agreement into the next planning period. However, since this is not a national plan in which we point out a distribution of funds in each area of funding, we have not set aside a specific sum for urban development agreements. However, this has proved to be a very good way of cooperating between different levels of society – municipalities and states in this case.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-769	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the Christian Democrats do not close the door to high-speed roads. We see great benefits from new high-speed rail mainlines, as I said in my main speech. But, Mr President, when you look at the government's vision of a new high-speed rail line on p. 51 of the infrastructure for the future, you cannot find anything concrete, but there is just some kind of will direction from the government. We do not see any concrete proposal on the timetable, no concrete proposal on funding, no concrete proposal on the implementation plan and so on. At the same time, the text states that the current state of affairs regarding the most comprehensive expansion option shows that a fully-fledged system could be completed between 2035 and 2040. ..................................................... It feels like this is actually some misleading information. Since there are no funds set aside in the budget proposal that we have discussed today, the question is how the government intends this to be implemented. What have the Finnish Transport Agency got for economic muscles? What does the government want to say about this? Is it only a volitional approach without concreteization to be considered?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-772	Mr President, I would like to You could put it that way. As I said at the outset, this is not an action plan but an infrastructure proposal that sets out a direction for the further planning and framework of the economic ambitions in this area. This means that there is no concrete deployment strategy linked to the infrastructure bill. As is the case with all other deployment strategies for all other objects, this will be implemented and financed with the money made available in the infrastructure bill. This is usually the case with most infrastructure proposals. It is very rare to have complete development strategies linked to projects, but there we have expert authorities that take on and come up with concrete implementation in the next step. This is not to compare with an object either, it is a new system. We are now saying that we believe that this is the right way for Sweden to go. We point out a direction and describe that there could be technical conditions for completion to 2035 – 2040, but we have nowhere stated that this is the Government's ambition. It may also be added that this bill covers the action plan for the years 2018 – 2029. Even according to the most ambitious timetable, the entire high-speed track would not be completed by 2029. Therefore, it would be totally unreasonable to have the full cost of this product.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-776	Mr President, I would like to I wonder whether this is even possible with the funds allocated, in addition to planning for the East Link, which has already been planned. I wonder if there is financial space in this 622.5 billion allocation. In previous infrastructure proposals it was 522 billion, and this has been raised by 100 billion for twelve years to come. If we were to ignore the 84 billion of your proposed tax increases – mileage and national aviation taxes – this would mean raising this allocation by only 16.5 billion over 12 years. But let us assume that the tax increases are going through. Then we have an increase of 100 billion in twelve years. If this sum were to be allocated to all the appropriations that we have discussed today, I do not see that there would be any financial scope for even starting to build this high-speed railway until some time after 2030. Is that so?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-777	Mr President, I would like to The high-speed rail system will start next year with the construction of the Ostlink. It is the first stage of an envisaged high-speed rail system and funds are available for the first stage of the existing plan. This will therefore begin. This bill does not require specific tax increases, but we make the assessment that these levels of 622 1⁄2 billion over the whole period are within the current financial framework. In addition, the Budget Act does not allow a specific tax to be linked to a particular area of expenditure as suggested by Robert Halef. The Budget Act says that the government will present a budget proposal where the revenue is sufficient to cover the expenditure planned. There you see the revenue mass as a whole and the expenditure mass as a whole. Robert Halef Påskiner that this product and the expansion of high-speed lines would in some way depend on the introduction of air tax or kilometre tax. It is completely out of control, and it would also be contrary to the Budget Act. In this respect, I can reassure Robert Halef. It's not like that.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-779	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Government that there is a lack of capacity in the Swedish rail system. I believe that everyone in this House agrees on this. What is the reason for the lack of capacity? I do not think it is because there are too many trains rolling on Swedish railways. The lack of capacity is due to the fact that the railways are currently very fragmented. It rolls freight trains with a maximum speed of 80 kilometres per hour. As far as commuter trains and S trains are concerned, I think it's 60. There are fast regional trains with 200, and then we have SJ's flagship X 2000 with 200 kilometers per hour. Mr President, I would like to The Government mentions many times in its speech new technologies. My question to the Government is: Is it the new technology and the right way to go with longer, heavier and slower freight trains? If we have a system that is now fragmented, the system becomes even more fragmented with longer and heavier freight trains. When we mention new technology, I would like to inform the Government that last year a new bogie was presented which allows freight trains to drive 160 kilometres an hour with a 25-tonne axle load. It has been developed in the railway vehicle department of Berlin University of Technology and is part of the EU project Sustrail. My question to the Government is: has it been taken into account that instead of investing in longer and heavier freight trains, one can invest in faster and shorter freight trains?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-783	Mr President, I would like to I have no objection to the use of new technologies to make freight transport faster and more efficient. I will not propose any technology choice. What we have said is that we welcome the fact that, particularly on certain designated routes where such needs exist, it is possible for both longer freight trains and heavier freight trains where it increases the efficiency of the system. If there are other technologies that are suitable for increasing efficiency in other ways, I do not see that there would be a conflict. On the contrary, we must take all the measures we can to ensure that transport flows and flows of goods are as efficient as possible on both our railways and our roads.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-784	Mr President, I would like to Speaking of new technology, the Transport Committee in China and Japan was just over a year ago. There we studied new technology. There is a certain reason why 60% of the world's high-speed railways are currently in China. It builds high-speed rail with new technologies – high-speed rail is built on a bridge, as is the case in the other countries where high-speed trains are being built today; it is India, the United States and soon also Thailand. My next question to the Government is: Do you think that you build with new technology in Sweden when you insist on building on land and with ballast instead of building up in the air in a modern way?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-785	Mr President, I would like to As far as technology choices are concerned, I leave the expert authorities at our disposal to make the assessment of what is most economically defensible and technically advantageous. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the comparison that is sometimes made with China, for example, in terms of speed, propulsion and other things is somewhat limping. I would say that we have very different social systems, different views of democracy and, to some extent, different conditions in terms of security requirements and other things. I definitely think that we should build with the best available technology and the most socio-economically defensible technology. What it is, I think there are engineers who are possibly better sent to respond than we are in this House. I will refrain from making technological choices in the debate on the infrastructure bill and ask to be allowed to return when the Finnish Transport Administration has made its assessments.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-789	Mr President, I would like to They're a nice front page of the bill, Prime Minister. That's what we think. It's green and beautiful. However, we may have seen heavier infrastructure proposals on a substantial basis. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you a question. In terms of equality, we were already able to meet at committee level in a consensus where the Center Party had success in its view of a more equal way of planning the transport infrastructure. Thank you, Pia Nilsson and the Social Democrats! The committee report also contains a series of announcements on how to achieve global solutions for maritime and aviation emissions, real aviation tax. It is about Ertms, which we have discussed a lot here today. These are the views of regional airports in a system of ten national airports. It is about the view on how we can effectively carry out maintenance and development of the Swedish railway slash take in Gunnar Alexandersson's wise views. It is also about how we come up with a national strategy for cross-border rail transport. Mr President, I would like to In addition to making a huge amount of money available to the Government, because that's what the decision is about, a framework budget and a framework in a bill, there are five concrete contributions in the form of announcements. My question to the Government will then be: In what way will the five clear announcements from the Swedish Parliament affect the work of the Government?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-795	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, we note that texts do not always improve just because they contain more words and more pages. Sometimes it is that if you are many parties that are going to agree there are a lot of words for everyone to have their part confirmed. This does not necessarily mean that there will then be concrete impressions in reality. I am quite proud that we have managed to achieve a tight product with a very clear focus on infrastructure policy in the coming years. When we started working on the writings, we were quite open to having broad discussions with several parties. We had also initiated such talks but did not really even start them until the alliance parties chose not to continue those talks. I'm sorry to hear that. I believe that the announcements in this area that exist today from the committee could well be met in the context of such a continued negotiation of the infrastructure bill. Having said that, I can also say that, as the announcements are formulated, this is largely what the government is already working on, things that are already taken care of in different contexts and things that are well in line with the ambitions expressed by the government. I do not think that there will be any major problems for the government to accommodate the Transport Committee in these areas.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-798	Mr President, I would like to The order is that the Riksdag now submits a mandate to the Government to draw up a national plan that we assume will be adopted by the Government in spring 2018. However, it is in this House that the Government is drawing on its mandate in terms of direction and economy. Therefore, there is reason for the Government to take account of the words regardless of their quantity. Speaking of the talks that the Government invited, that's true. I was invited to three talks, one was at a breakfast in January and two were in September. But the September talks, the Government, were just at odds with this product being printed. The room for conversation was extremely limited. We will have to talk about this in a different context. I want some more concrete information. In what way will the announcements not to work with national solutions such as air travel tax, take great account of operators, the rail industry, the introduction of Ertms and to accommodate the 36 regional airports have an impact on the work? We can settle for that. In what way will it color the work of the government? In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Council of Ministers a Merry Christmas in this debate, which almost takes up Mr Gripenstedt's proportions.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-802	Mr President, I would like to As far as the talks were concerned, we were very clear that we were open to discussing everything in the content. The negotiations that then took place with the Left Party may well serve as proof that we were very open to making as broad an agreement as possible for exactly the reasons I set out in my speech. We believe that it is important for confidence in policy's ability to meet challenges that we have a broad consensus on the major important investments. Having said that, it is important for the government that what the Riksdag expresses is also taken care of. Several of the announcements linked to the bill are taken care of in things that the government already does. We have several strategies under preparation and preparation in the Government Office where further of those announcements will be handled in different ways. At present, I cannot explain in detail how the government will take on board the announcements, but of course we attach great importance to what Parliament says. I'll ask you to return the wish for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-806	Mr President, I would like to Last week joy spread all over Sweden. Several international studies show that the knowledge of students around the country has increased. This is important for Sweden, the exporting country. It is important that our students in school get a lot of skills and knowledge so that they can compete with the rest of the world. One exporting country competes with the whole world. Of course, we can't be really happy. There is still some work to be done in terms of knowledge. Today we are debating something that can start this week with a message of joy. We will increase the framework for infrastructure investments by 100 billion. No, nobody thinks it's good – right? Of course, there will be more and more projects that we will frame in the infrastructure investment. This will increase Sweden's competitiveness. We need these efforts to enable people to go to work or to achieve jobs that are even further away. We are going to make the labour market regions bigger. Companies should be able to export just in time. Then they need reliable infrastructure. 1 billion a week for eleven years to come will be invested in infrastructure from 2018. Why? Indeed, we need sustainable competitive infrastructure. We all know the environmental impact that transport can cause. Sustainable infrastructure is therefore important. This means that the investment in railway maintenance is particularly important. The investment that we are going to make on new main courses is particularly important. We must also look at how transport is moved and how logistics works. Is it right to be on the right track? Not all transports need to go on roads or railways. Some transports can be carried by sea. It is important that we optimise what we do so that Sweden can gain competitive advantages. Mr President, I would like to We have been told today that capacity is important. Several speakers have raised the issue of capacity in the transport sector in the debate. What is crucial for railway capacity? Of course, it is about double tracks so that it is possible to travel simultaneously in both directions. Meeting places are also important for the capacity, how tight or sparse it is between meeting places. We look at these issues when we invest in rail capacity. Then, of course, there are the signalling systems. Is there a malfunction in the signal system in this microphone? No, it is not, Mr President. It is rarely wrong in this House. On the other hand, the railways are often wrong. Today the trains stood still between Stockholm and Malmö due to signal errors. Part of the capacity also depends on the length of the trains. There are some reservations, but even today there are longer trains than are usually used. They're longer than 630 meters. With such an initiative and with longer meeting places, with opportunities to meet in traffic, it is possible to have longer trains all over Sweden. With the 662 1⁄2 billion that we decide on today, it will be possible to increase Sweden's competitiveness in the future. How many times do you say capacity? It's an important thing. About as important as knowledge is in school is the capacity of transport systems. It's basic. What is being done to increase capacity? Maintenance is extremely important, Mr President. Then it will be a good condition on the railways and roads that exist, and they can be used to the full. Mr President, I would like to Let me point out that maintenance has increased since the Social Democrats took office as a government party. But it's not enough. Maintenance has been under way for a long time. The Bildt government caused major deficits, and then it was not possible to invest in maintenance. You had to give priority. Then the Reinfeldt government also left some billions in deficit. But we have prioritised maintenance this time, and we have the resources to do so. We also need to look at how it is possible to work with logistics. It's important. Right to be on the right track. New main routes are also part of the increased capacity. Let me just say that before the Botnia Line and Ådalsbanan were built there were 60 000 trips along the coast of Norrland. Now it is on the same route 1.3 million trips. I am a little excited and annoyed that the Moderates have been talking about Norrland and the need for freight all day long. In fact, there are people who live there. They need to go to and from work. It has gone from 60 000 to 1.3 million trips. What's important? It's important to build new tracks. They generate opportunities to move and look for jobs further away. Botniabanan means that Ö-vik and Umeå are one and the same labour market. Edward Riedl can address this later in his speech. There's a deal. What happens to the large companies that are not only present on the Swedish labour market with Swedish ownership but also have foreign owners and access to a market that spans the world? What does that mean? Well, that means that you not only have to have good skills, which I was on from the beginning, but you also have to have good competitive advantages with regard to the transport system. You have to look for the labour force from a longer distance, and that is where regional enlargement comes in. You have to produce and send goods according to the time concept, and then it is important that you can rely on the transport system that exists. Mr President, I would like to I realize I've been talking for a long time. I've got four scripts left, so I'll keep going a little bit. The Moderates have shown in this debate that they are turning a little bit. It is very important that we can have a good cooperation, but as it looks today it feels uncertain. Just a few years ago, the Moderates gave the directives on new main courses, and today a former moderater called this a political prestige project. Now I'm interested in whether you Moderates think you can keep a straight line or if you make decisions according to the wind direction. Do you want to stick to something? This requires something of us politically. These are long-term investments, because these are investments that cause companies to dare or dare not to invest in Sweden. We must therefore have a clear line on how we want Sweden to develop on this page. You have said, two or three years ago, that you want to build a high-speed road and that you want to increase housing construction. Now this is a little wobbly. The question is really what the Moderates want in this case. I can say, Mr President, that we want to develop the infrastructure to increase the competitiveness of our companies because we need more companies in this country. We need more opportunities for the labour market, because we still have 350 000 unemployed in this country. It is therefore important that more companies have more opportunities for skills and the opportunity to sell goods outside Sweden. Therefore, from 2018, we will invest 1 billion a week on infrastructure. This is very important for Sweden's development.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-827	Mr President, I would like to We Moderates believe that the different modes of transport should not be set against each other. Sweden needs both road and rail, shipping, air and bicycle. That is why I am very concerned about the eagerness of the government parties to impose a lot of different taxes on lorry traffic, such as the kilometre tax and the annual list of petrol and diesel taxes. We need the truck. We are not going to fight truck traffic, we are going to make it environmentally friendly. In order for our business community to flourish and the whole country to live, truck transport is absolutely necessary. There are goods that must be delivered quickly to places where there is no rail or sea road. The haulage industry is a industry that creates many jobs, most in small companies without the resources to perform complex calculations of how the mileage tax should be distributed among different customers. It seems that those who have come up with the idea of mileage tax have thought that it is only about the transport of the same type of goods from point A to point B. Reality is quite different. A truck transport picks up and leaves goods at different places on the way to the final destination. It is goods of different kinds and weight that are transported at different distances. Last Friday I visited Abbekås Åkeri in Staffanstorp. It's a big player in the business. The owner, PerPer-Anders Andersson, was concerned about the cost and the extra regulatory burden that the new kilometre tax will entail. He already has a full-time employee to deal with the problems of driving and rest times. Those who advocate mileage tax say that the purpose is good. The aim is to reduce road wear and facilitate the transfer of goods to more environmentally friendly modes of transport, such as shipping. I am the first to welcome larger quantities of goods on our sea routes, but I am doubtful about the method. Piss is rarely as effective as carrots. If the government now wants, as the Prime Minister said in the Government Declaration, that long-distance freight should be moved from truck to train and shipping, I wonder why it is not being made easier for shipping rather than making it more difficult for truck traffic. For example, better port infrastructure, better road and rail connections and deeper fairways that enable large ships to arrive can be promoted. In principle, all operators in the industry – ports, shipping companies and the rest of the business community – have been very critical of the proposal for new fairway charges. There is much talk of investing in inland and coastal shipping, but the new fairway and pilotage charges are considered by inland waterway operators to be directly counterproductive. Why has the industry not been involved in the design of these tariffs if it is now serious about investing in shipping? Mr President, I would like to It is important for Sweden that cross-border traffic works well. Sweden's prosperity is largely based on exports, and it is of great importance that there are reliable connections both with road and rail across borders. Per Klarberg mentioned the railway accident in November 2012 at Farris, Denmark, where a freight train derailed and caused damage to the rails that had to be repaired for two weeks. During the repair period rail transport by ferry via Trelleborg was saved for the Swedish export industry. Lucky for you, the shipping company had spare capacity. But what would have happened if it hadn't? Ensuring a reliable infrastructure is a task for the government and not for individual companies. It is good that Karin Svensson Smith drew attention in her speech to the risk that Trelleborg's port will lose the rail ferries to the continent. The Minister mentioned the international perspective. Do we dare to believe in a rescue for rail traffic via ferries in Trelleborg? In order to be on the safe side, the Transport Committee has proposed that the Riksdag address an announcement to the Government to develop a national strategy for cross-border rail traffic in order to reduce the negative consequences of disruptions to the traffic system. One example of negative consequences for commuters in the Öresund region is the introduction of ID and passport controls. The problem is not the controls themselves, but the way they have been designed. If these two checks were to be coordinated, the journey time of commuters would be reduced by 20 minutes. Many commuters say the limit is reached. They quit their jobs or choose to take the car over the strait. The government has promised relief on several occasions, but without results. Will there be a deal with Denmark before the Öresund labour market region is completely broken? Mr President, I would like to According to the Rules of Procedure, it is the government that establishes the national plan. It is therefore not the Parliament's task to take a position on infrastructure projects. However, it is no secret which projects we Moderates think are urgent. For time winning, I will just mention a few that affect Skåne. An important project is Södra Stambanan, where the Malmö – Hässleholm section is a bottleneck that needs to be fixed with extra tracks. Another is the West Coast Line, which between Helsingborg city centre and Maria needs to be equipped with double tracks and buried. As it is now, the train track runs through the best part of Helsingborg, parallel to the beach, through a residential area. Skånebanan, in particular the Hässleholm– Kristianstad section, also needs capacity-enhancing measures. On Saturday, a debate article was published on the need to extend the E6 to a three-lane motorway between Malmö and Helsingborg. Article authors were two Social Democratic MPs. It was gratifying, because the moderate Skåne bench and alliance parties in Skåne have long pointed out the need for an extension of the E6. The situation is critical. Traffic queues are formed daily when people are on their way to and from their jobs. The Malmö – Helsingborg stretch is also unusually accident-affected. It is no exaggeration to say that driving accidents occur every two days. Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of my speech, I said that we should not set different modes of traffic against each other. I notice that I have not mentioned anything about the bike, which is a means of transport on the march, especially in urban environments. The Parliament addressed an announcement to the government with the invitation to return with a bicycle strategy. First of all, the strategy would come in the spring. Now we're in December. It is urgent that the cycling strategy be presented as soon as possible. My colleague Edward Riedl will speak about the flight and the harmful flight tax. As an actor, I can only say that the introduction of a flight tax is likely to lead to Kastrup's choice in the future. Sturup will thus lose valuable jobs. Finally, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 14.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-849	Mr President, I would like to What Boriana Åberg said about shipping, I can't say any better myself. We have exactly the same opinion on this issue – shipping is very important. However, I cannot help talking about the high-speed railway, which has been so talked about in this House. I was going to tell you about a trip we made to China, where we would experience going on high-speed rail. I thought it would be a lovely, flashy experience. We'd go from Beijing and south to Shenzhen, if I don't remember. We had to come to the lovely station building that they had built up, with huge shopping malls and real estate. We sat on the train, in comfortable armchairs, leaned back and got up the footrests. After a while, I thought about when the train would start to leave. I looked out, and we were already at full speed. Only when I saw the speedometer did I understand how fast we were driving, because when I looked out it looked quite normal, much like when you were driving at normal speed. It was not a unique, insolent experience to ride high-speed rail. However, it was a very pleasant experience. This, being able to travel comfortably, is something you might think we should be able to have in Sweden too. When I sit on X 2000 it's a completely different experience. You even know when the train leaves. When going to the bistro you probably sit on at least someone's knee. It is with this technology that we have in Sweden that the government wants to build high-speed trains. On ballast. On land. We in the Swedish Democrats have been following the construction, or the construction plan, for quite some time. We have found that they have changed a bit and want to build on slab track. But this actually means building a wall right through Sweden – from Stockholm, via Jönköping, down to Skåne. This would be a wall that takes huge space and makes enormous damage to nature and land. We therefore advocate that the high-speed rail network should not be built. We have also heard today that there is no end date, which may be wise. But there is at least a construction start, with the Ostlink. The cheese link is needed. Like Jessica from the Moderates, the route is needed anyway, and the route can be built with conventional rail, where you can operate at 250 or perhaps even 270 kilometers per hour. I was gonna say something about OPS. We have seen that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed, among other things, Arlandabanan. We will need alternative financing measures, because no matter how much money you spend on infrastructure, there is always a lack of money. We are now in the seventh hour of infrastructure debate only today. This concerns everyone and everything. Infrastructure affects everything you do, all the goods you have – infrastructure affects everything. The airport runway was a OPS solution, i.e. a public-private collaboration. I find it quite interesting to follow OPS. We do not have anything against OPS, but we need to follow up the agreements and see how changes can be made in the future. As far as Arlandabanan is concerned, we know that ticket prices are very high, but it has also been a great risk as this was a rather early OPS solution. Arlandabanan has competition protection that makes it difficult to compete if it wanted to develop the traffic between Stockholm Central and Arlanda Airport. With this protection of competition, it is still surprising that Arlanda Express only has 13 percent of the traffic, as much as taxis out to Arlanda. Car use to Arlanda extends to 32 percent. For buses, it's 6%. I think that Arlanda Express should be able to have a larger share, but I also think it is far too expensive. Now I have seen that they have more advantageous fares, which we welcome. As far as OPS and other financial engineering are concerned, I would like to mention something else we did when we were in China. We took the opportunity to go to Hong Kong, where we met MTR. They had rather clever and good solutions to precisely alternative funding, so we in committee discussed with MTR how they did and how their infrastructure worked. They told me that when they build infrastructure, they conclude agreements on the ground around the station buildings. They build real estate, offices and shopping centres, and build even more infrastructure through the profits they make in the construction of shopping centres and real estate and office premises. They said they always keep shopping malls because they're doing great. Some of the property stock they sold out and then, of course, used the money to build even more tracks. They also used some of the money to keep the fares down, so that more people chose to go, which means that they get even higher filling rates and also earn money because more people ride the subway. This is a great way to build infrastructure, to leave the state free to pay for everything, and also to involve private operators in financing the infrastructure of the future.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-865	Mr President, I would like to I understand if people are getting a little carpeted now by hearing everything about infrastructure. Of course, I support everything that my colleague in the Liberals, Nina Lundström, has said here before. What I would like to mention as a central point of departure for the development of infrastructure and transport in the coming planning period is the proposal from the environmental objective preparation that we should reduce the climate impact by reducing greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by 70% from 2010 to 2030. So it is a huge challenge, and it is very multifaceted solutions that are required for this. The electrification has been mentioned here before. It is clear that train traffic is electrified, but the passenger car fleet is also very close to electrifying. In any case, it is important that we think about cross-transport modes, optimize the modes of transport we have and think according to the four-step principle, because, as I said, it is about optimizing. Having said that, I will focus on what is in the bill on the rural perspective, the need for cross-border infrastructure in the Nordic region and the development of inland shipping. I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the approval of reservation No 7, which deals with cross-border traffic in particular. Mr President, I would like to When it comes first to the rural perspective, it is often about smaller measures that have a fairly large impact and efficiency improvements. It is not always the big projects that benefit rural areas. Half of Sweden's population lives in more than fifty municipalities. Large parts of the country are quite sparsely populated countryside and smaller towns. In the Liberals' traffic policy, we take this up and take into account the rural conditions, which are very different from the conditions of cities and agglomerations, according to the motto, which is quite worn out now, the whole country should live. Road standards in rural areas play a central role. We can talk about roads and railways and put them against each other, but in most rural areas, roads are the only alternative, and the car is, of course, absolutely necessary for daily life. Liberals have proposed, among other things, differentiated travel deductions, which put the thumb on the fact that where the alternatives are lacking, you should reasonably be entitled to more travel deductions than where there are particularly good conditions for the public transport option. We have talked here about alternative forms of financing, public and private collaboration and so on. I do not think it should be confined to the metropolitan regions, but this is something that can occur anywhere in the country. It can also apply to bridges and other areas in sparsely populated areas, where it is very important and where you are prepared to pay user charges. In particular, there are some ferry routes where the costs of ferry services and user charges combined can be an alternative financing. Mr President, I would like to Both rural and urban areas depend on the operation of the major railway routes. Perhaps it is fortunate that they, which is my personal experience, work better in reality than it sounds like here from the speaker's chair. The Swedish railway is not really that bad, even if it has its flaws. As far as the big strings are concerned, we are talking about both passenger and freight traffic. Nina Lundström mentioned low-traffic tracks and their role in the system. It's easy to say that there aren't many people there, so it doesn't matter very much. But, of course, it is of enormous importance to the people who are riding on them, and yet they make up quite a large part of the rail system. We Liberals believe it is important to develop a strategy to fit the low-traffic rail lines into the rest of the rail system. In the case of low-traffic routes, it is perhaps even more a case of having a significant impact with small measures. On some low - traffic lanes you don't drive when it blows 15 seconds because you don't have tree - proof. This type of accessibility is not so expensive to create, so we hope that there will be room in the action plan for such things. Generally speaking, we in Sweden are very dependent on international transport and especially the cross-border infrastructure in the Nordic region. There was a meeting here on 9 November between the Nordic Infrastructure Ministers. I think it was a positive step that people started talking to each other. In order to move forward with this, there must be continuity in the talks, and that is a lot about planning. There is no contradiction between national and cross-border planning. It's really just a matter of communicating. There is no obstacle to getting started with close cooperation within the existing structures in the Nordic region. This is also mentioned in the bill, but now we really need to follow it up. For example, if Oslo and Gothenburg had been in the same country, I am absolutely convinced that there would have been a much better railway between Norway's largest city and Sweden's second largest city. In order not to appear so local patriotic, there is much to raise in the matter for Oslo, Stockholm, Kvarken, Nordkalotten and not least Skåne as transit regions. Mr President, I would like to I will say a few words about shipping, which has been talked about a lot here. I believe that more than ten times is mentioned in the proposal for freight to move from road to rail and shipping, which is an ambition that we in the Liberals share. But for this to happen, we need to have competitive shipping. Otherwise, it won't happen. Karin Svensson Smith is not here now, but she mentioned that the reason why shipping is not dealt with so much in the bill is that the infrastructure is as free, that it is already in place. It's a truth with quite a lot of modification. First of all, it is a question of the fact that, in order to be able to use maritime transport efficiently, infrastructure to and from ports, both roads and railways, is needed, which works well. In order to then go over to the inland shipping and the leads that we talk about developing in Sweden, it is a lot about Mälartrafiken and Göta River – Vänersråket. It is not possible to get away from the fact that if you intend to keep the shipping on Göta River – Vänersgrändet must be able to include investments in new locks in Trollhättan. It is not a best-performing date in 2030, but the last year of use is 2030. According to Trafikverket's string studies, there is no possibility of extending the service life through maintenance. This must be included. The government mentions that you should move a lot to shipping, but you do not mention how it should be done. Also for the development around Lake Vänern and the investments made, it is important that we get a signal early on about how to do it. I have asked questions to the Minister for Infrastructure, and the answer that this is part of the action plan is right, because that is the case. But this measure is a cornerstone. Otherwise, we have a non-decision on this issue, and it is the same as closing down the inland waterway between Gothenburg and Vänerhamnarna.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-888	Mr President, I would like to Now we have spent a number of hours dealing with the infrastructure, and we have heard all the repetitions a dozen times. I'll try not to do the same. Let me mention some forgotten issues which should have been included and which we should have deepened and continued to implement. First of all, I should like to mention lorry traffic. We see the condition getting worse every day. For example, it has been said that rogue traffic has had happy hour because police traffic controls are non-existent. It is also said in the media and by the Transport Workers' Association that criminal gangs are increasingly involved in directing the foreign haulage companies, which year after year travel on our roads and totally ignore all regulations. For years, the Swedish Democrats have been proposing concrete measures against rogue traffic. We have proposed more European methods of monitoring and training specific staff and, above all, ensuring that they are where they are needed. What's the government doing? Well, another nail is put in the coffin of the Swedish haulage industry through a new tax. That's what you have to come up with, and we recognize this behavior. This tax affects Swedish haulage companies, which are already burdened with taxes and charges. The rogues will hardly pay anything they can quickly drive by, so we will not earn much from that direction. They have their own rules. The one about this. I am thinking of the last parliamentary term when, in broad agreement in committee, we joined together in an investigation, noted what the shortcomings were and addressed a great deal. After a lot of hooting in the Chamber, we finally got through a couple of things. The fines went up a lot, and clapping was allowed, albeit in a limited form. Then something was done, but now the question seems to be forgotten. Now nothing's happening. Mr President, I would like to Another issue that seems to be forgotten is mobile calling with a handheld phone. I think those who have been around for a few years recognize the issue. We've covered it here and there. The previous government came up with a lame story that it was not easy to do something about, because then one had to ban so much. That is not the case at all. In particular, the Social Democrats sitting here should renew the enthusiasm they had in the last parliamentary term so that we can do something about this jointly through legislation. Unfortunately, the measures we got through were inadequate. I've been waiting two years for this to be accomplished, but it's dead quiet. I'm going to do some little repetition anyway. We have heard a lot about Ertms today. The Swedish democrats still consider it a clearly unprofitable and unnecessary investment. We will be bitterly sorry if we are once again totally obedient to the European Union. I am pleased that several speakers include our position on regional airports. Something must be done here. I allowed myself to say that I personally would not object to the nationalisation of these airports in order to get things out of the world once and for all. I am not saying that this is the only right way to go, but it is a path which, in any case, had solved the problem of the supranationality of the European Union on this issue. Mr President, I would like to As far as the air tax is concerned, the Swedish Democrats have probably spoken out loud. We will oppose it as long as it is ever possible.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-902	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Parliament today sends an announcement to the government that the Swedish Parliament thinks that the government should work with ICAO and global solutions in aviation and not with national special solutions such as aviation tax. A national airline tax only hits Swedish competitiveness and mainly affects the parts of the country that exist outside our big cities. In addition, the air tax has a marginal climate effect. The government itself states that most of it will be transferred to the road. This is negative for most of Sweden. Furthermore, experience with air tax shows that it exports not only jobs but also travel to other countries. Those who laugh the most if the government gets a flight tax are Copenhagen, Oslo and Helsinki, because they will get the increased air traffic from Sweden. Denmark, Holland and Ireland introduced air tax but abolished it when they came to the very conclusion that the only thing they export is jobs and travel to other countries. The airline tax will cost the necessary work trips within the country, the airline tax will cost the well-deserved holiday travel of ordinary people and the airline tax will not help to save the climate. The S-MP government has produced a really bad proposal for aviation tax with only marginal climate effects. But the proposal was not bad enough. Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party probably worked out how they could make this bad proposal even worse. We could read about it in the paper today. So you should take the revenue from this flight tax, which is primarily paid by northern Sweden, and subsidise train tickets in mainly southern Sweden. That's genius. A really bad policy can actually be made even worse with the Left Party. It is skilful for the government to produce a tax that makes everyone a loser. There will be fewer jobs and less growth. In the end, therefore, there will be less tax revenue, less money for welfare, less money for school and less money for the health care that some of the government parties have spoken out for. So there will be less money for what has been talked about when taxes that ultimately reduce government revenue are implemented. With respect to the next committee, I will not be any more tedious than that, but I urge the government parties to take the announcement seriously. A majority of the Riksdag is against the anti-aircraft policy that the government is trying to implement. I think you would gain by listening to what a majority of the Swedish Parliament thinks about this.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-911	Mr President, I would like to The infrastructure bill means financing with tax money, a lot of tax money. Pia Nilsson from the Social Democrats said earlier that tax cuts have not been given priority. No, but new tax increases have certainly been given priority. We already have one of Europe's highest taxes on fuel, both petrol and diesel. Yet today the government is sitting with the Green Party in the driver's seat and is planning new aviation taxes, new kilometre taxes and new increases in petrol and diesel taxes. A new flight tax could mean that we are losing about 10 000 jobs in Sweden. A new road tax on our trucks can mean that companies will pay more than SEK 10 billion more in taxes in order for the government to meet its budget. The government has simply decided to reduce transport in this country. You're supposed to make sure everything stops. It is important to ensure that companies pay for the policies they intend to pursue. The significance of this policy is that jobs move abroad and that we get the highest taxes for all transport. The government is doing everything possible to stop Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Instead, we should look at new opportunities to stop cheating on our roads and bring tax revenue to Sweden. You would make sure that alco-bommers come up, but now it has been two years without anything having happened. Orderer liability has not been introduced, which means that people can order a transport without having to be legal. The people of rural areas are heavily taxed with the new economy and the new taxes that are in the government's budget and that are supposed to finance our infrastructure. In addition, the government has succeeded in reducing the complaints that we made in the Riksdag and that we in the Alliance worked out. It has now been managed to devalue down to a level which means that it is no longer applicable on the roads. It is serious, and it will decrease even further. This should be the government's concern, not new tax increases. What has the government done in these two years? Yes, petrol taxes have been increased, diesel taxes have been increased and new taxes are planned. In addition, security would have removed the traffic police, so that illegal traffic cannot be hunted. This is serious, and it is visible on our roads. The infrastructure bill itself is a lot about our investments. We see a risk of being in and poking into old projects when it comes to roads. Among the projects mentioned above, the extension of the E20 risks being delayed because other environmental considerations must now be taken into account. We want a bet on the West Main Line, and we want to expand the E20 as planned. We should also expand Gothenburg – Borås according to our proposal. But we do not need the government's tax increases for this. We do not need to get even more money from our Swedish companies. Mr President, I would like to The investment in high-speed trains is so unprofitable that each bet gives 60 öre back. No bank would bet on that. Government representatives have been heard to say that pension funds might be used for this. Then I think it is important that the government first asks whether pensioners intend to be involved in paying for high-speed trains. We say no to high-speed trains, Mr President.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-922	Mr President, I would like to Last week I visited the company Estrella in Angered in Gothenburg. Estrella makes chips – lots of chips. If you ask people how much chips and nuts they eat, it is not really in correlation to how much is actually sold on the Swedish market. Estrella is one of the major players. In practice, every chip bag sold leads to work in Angered and Gothenburg. I think the company Estrella is also interesting for other reasons. It's a medium-sized company with 200 employees. The co-workers include 23 nationalities. The company is an important local employer in part of Gothenburg, and it is important for integration. The company is owned by an international group of companies. Decisions we make in the Swedish Parliament affect Estrella as well as a variety of other companies. Is there competence? How much are the transports? Is there housing for employees if you hire people? How does Sweden stand against other countries when investing in a new line for chip production? For the Moderates, nutrition policy is about facilitating and helping companies like Estrella in their development in various ways. Beyond that, Mr President, Sweden is facing a number of major challenges in the coming years. One of these concerns Swedish competitiveness, where Sweden and Swedish companies are tested on a daily basis against competitors in other countries and other parts of the world. As political decision-makers, we must constantly consider how the decisions we make nationally and locally but also jointly in Europe affect both large Swedish companies and smaller ones, which are trade-dependent and exist in other parts of the world. Competition is sharp, and various decisions we make about transport, skills or taxes affect the daily lives of the country's companies. Another major challenge, Mr President, is exclusion and jobs. The government itself says in the budget bill that today's a normal day is over 900,000 people who don't go to work. This does not last long-term for the individual people who do not enter the labour market and who do not get their own salary with everything it means – be able to buy a car, rent an apartment and go on vacation. For that matter, it does not stand if we look at the big and important integration challenge that Sweden has and faces, when we know that perhaps the best way to become a part of Swedish society and learn the language is to get into the labour market. We have a challenge with entrepreneurship based on more people wanting to start a business, but above all, that more companies will grow, and we need to lift this up in different ways. The conclusion for us is that we need to have more proposals and decisions that facilitate entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. At the same time, Mr President, we have a government that is clearly in the wrong direction for Sweden. S, MP and V have, figuratively speaking, given a slap in a number of decisions and messages that have come. It is about the deterioration of RUT and ROT and about making it more expensive to hire and less profitable to work. It has worked to make it difficult for smaller companies to participate in public procurement and in various ways push away entrepreneurship in health and social care activities. There is a strong desire to increase transport costs, with truck taxes and air taxes. Most recently, there is the proposal for a substantial increase in the entrepreneurial tax – what is sometimes referred to as the 3:12 framework and which clearly hits the smallest companies in particular. I know that not everyone is impressed when an opposition representative says that the government of Sweden is in the wrong direction in this area, but it is enough to ask the country's entrepreneurs. Then we see that a majority thinks that the wrong things are happening right now. It can be about the 3:12 framework for an entrepreneur. For another, it could be about the ROT deterioration. For others, it may be a question of the rules governing public procurement. But it is always the carpet of measures that in different ways push away entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to What Sweden really needs is an agenda for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship with investments in research and infrastructure. There is a need to invest in school with longer teaching time and more mathematics. More career services are also needed to improve education. There is a need for regulatory simplification packages for companies and better access to venture capital. There is a need for more free trade with agreements between Sweden and countries such as Canada and the United States. There is a need to reduce the requirement for share capital. Better tax conditions are needed for entrepreneurs who choose to use employee options when building their company. With regard to entrepreneurial taxes and the 3:12 framework, the focus should be on facilitating not least generational shifts rather than what the government is now looking at, namely a sharp increase in tax. Sweden is facing a number of major challenges in the coming years. If we are to manage competitiveness, push back exclusion and boost entrepreneurship, we need more proposals and decisions that in different ways facilitate and help entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. I believe that the alliance parties are being included, but not with the government parties. Ultimately, nutrition policy is about different ways with the things we do being able to make it easier for companies like Estrella to be successful when selling chips and nuts to the Friday cozy.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-934	Mr President, I would like to Later in my speech, I will talk a little more about the subject that I intend to raise now, namely the introduction of the chemical tax that will take place with this budget. The Moderates write quite correctly in their budget exercise about the shortcomings and disadvantages of the introduction of this chemical tax on electronics products. The Moderates write: The design of the chemical tax proposed by the government now serves only as a penalty tax on white goods and home playtronics. For the Swedish operator, this is a significant competitive disadvantage compared to international competitors and is at risk of providing only limited environmental benefits. Instead, it results in consumers making their purchases of white goods and consumer electronics via foreign retailers. Then you write: The Moderates therefore want to see a different design of this chemical tax in the long term. Even though you realize the insanity of this treasure, you are not lifting a finger to stop its introduction. What's the matter? Would it not be appropriate to act on the basis of conviction? Or is this something that is part of the plan to drive the country to the bottom as much as possible to increase Moderate chances in the 2018 election?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-939	Mr President, I would like to Josef Fransson talked about driving the country to the bottom. I would rather say that politics for us is, of course, for real. In all the proposals that we have in our budget and present otherwise, we take as a starting point what are the major challenges for Sweden when it comes to entrepreneurship, exclusion, competitiveness and other things. When we look at different types of tax changes and other regulatory changes, it is for us to see what are cost-effective measures. If we look at this now, we can see that Sweden is a very trade-dependent country. About half of our economy is linked to trade, that is, we import and export. Cross-border trade can sometimes justify national legislation and instruments. Other times we have to look at common European decisions. Very often when it comes to environmental policy, we land on looking at common European solutions, for example when making demands on what should apply to sell a car or a truck and other things on the European market. Above all, we are in favour of having international solutions together in Europe. We think that this should be most appropriate in the field of chemicals policy as well. Then there has been a proposal from the government. We are considering this in different ways. How could a sensible design look at the competitiveness of the business sector combined with the impact on the individual enterprise? We believe that the best thing many times is the international solution. That's Fransson Josef's problem. He and his party want to leave the European Union. It is an organisation with great advantages, but of course also with a lot of shortcomings. But many times it is most successful for the business community to get common information that applies to sell to a whole continent. Then Josef Fransson says: Let us leave the Union. This will give you 28 different regulations in Europe with different tax systems. That would be a very bad thing, Mr President.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-945	Mr President, I would like to We have had the debate on the European Union in the past, and I am not going to go into it here and now. Actually, I was gonna stick to the chemical tax. What is so remarkable here is that the Moderates, like the Swedish Democrats, realize the insanity of the introduction of the chemical tax. Yet they want to retain the billion that the government believes they can count back in terms of increased tax revenue. So the Moderates realize this, but they choose to just write a few critical lines. They obviously still want to spend this money on some offer policy to have enough room for reform to offer in other areas. But I do not think this is a serious way of conducting politics. I hope that we can all realise in here as soon as possible that this will only be bad for Sweden and not lead to any significant environmental improvement, if any.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-947	Mr President, I would like to What Josef Fransson calls a ban policy is part of the most important industrial and welfare reforms that we have in our budget. For example, we are clear that we think it would be a very bad idea that the government is now looking at, that is, to significantly increase the entrepreneurial tax and reduce the 3:12 rules. It is also a question of proposing other initiatives in our budget, not least those aimed at strengthening schools. Every budget line must then be evaluated to see what is wiser. I will be honest and say that we can see shortcomings in making certain decisions at national level in relation to chemicals legislation and other matters. But that does not mean that you can never ever make that kind of decision nationally in Sweden. We will, of course, continue to look at this type of proposal, because there we have cross-border trade. Many of us consumers may go into a price comparison site and may not think about, or may not care if the supplier is in Sweden, Denmark, Germany or elsewhere. This gives great consumer power and great opportunities. But it also makes it easy to sidestep national decisions. That is not least why we believe that, in order to get a functioning business and strengthen the Swedish companies, they must have common European decisions in different ways. These are product requirements and environmental requirements imposed on industry. It is best done together in Europe because it applies to all 28 Member States. Overall, the EU is the world's largest economy. This is Josef Fransson's great problem and blind spot, because he and his party are saying: Let us leave the European Union. I respect the fact that this opinion can be held and that there are disadvantages to cooperation. But the problem is that we get 28 different regulations. It would only complicate the situation for Swedish companies and not make it easier, whether they are involved in chemicals or other things.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-952	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In this report, the Swedish Democrats have a reservation to which I would like to start by calling for approval. In fact, we are the only opposition party that reserves us against the government's allocation of appropriations in the field of expenditure. Everything is as usual, in other words, where the fake opposition gives Stefan Löfven the red carpet regardless of political content. Mr President, I would like to Today, I was going to take the opportunity to talk about this year's major business policy accident, namely the chemical calibre tax that I have already been into and nosed a little bit. I mean, it's so ill thought out that you almost fall off the chair by wonder. Before I go into it, however, I would like to give a brief account of our changes in appropriations. Our policy is largely fixed from the previous year on Category 24, where we have a number of priorities that are different from those of the government. The framework for the expenditure area is nearly SEK 6 billion. Of this amount, we propose a total cut of SEK 200 million. So that's not much. But this is the result of a number of re-priorities. The largest single reduction applies to Vinnova. There we want to cut the funding by a total of SEK 260 million. This is linked to our rejection of the large increase in Vinnova's budget proposed by the government. We do this not least because it is questioned by other authorities how effective this supporting activity actually is. However, we make significant additions to the Swedish Agency for Growth, Sweden's geological studies and Growth Analysis. The latter is linked to the fact that we see a great value in the agency's international analyses, which take place through, among other things, a number of foreign-based offices. This is an important support for both business and politics. Sweden, as everyone here knows at least, is a very export-dependent country. The Swedish Democrats see good opportunities to continue developing exports with our policy. This was a brief summary of the content of our reservation, Mr President. Of course, it contains much more about our industrial policy, but the rest of my speaking time will be devoted to the industrial breakdown which is misleadingly referred to as the chemical tax. Mr President, I would like to The red-green government is in urgent need of money, so now a new way of taxing the Swedish people – through an excise duty on electronics – has been found. It should be admitted that this tax was already being investigated under the previous alliance government, with the Center Party as the driving force, but given what came out of the investigation, it is completely incomprehensible how one can even consider moving forward with the proposal. It is even more remarkable that the Swedish Democrats were in fact entirely alone in abstinence to the introduction. Instead, the alliance parties welcome this failure – possibly apart from the Moderates, which we heard in a change of line just now. The Moderates have problematized the proposal with a few lines, but they want to keep the money. It's rare for us to read this obviously lousy bill. It is not even possible with a great effort to produce any viable argument. In principle, the design of the tax collection lacks a complete incentive to change behaviour in the form of buying other, and then supposedly more environmentally friendly, products – not least because you have to pay a large part of the tax even if the product does not even contain any of the listed substances. Furthermore, low-toxic phosphoric-organic flame retardants have been listed alongside more toxic brominated agents, although there are no other alternatives available. Everyone must reasonably understand that flame retardants are in our electronics for a reason, namely that our homes and families should not be destroyed in fire. It is actually incredibly naive to think that the global electronics giants, like Samsung, Apple or Sony, would switch to less safe fire retardants just to satisfy a insignificant micromarket like Sweden. Several experts and experts believe that the tax is unlikely to lead to a reduction in the use of chemicals at all. Mr President, I would like to This excise duty is hitting many products particularly at low price levels. As a result, families and less well-off people are hit extra hard. For example, a small TV to the children's room for SEK 1,400 in the future will cost SEK 1,800. A desktop computer with a monitor will be 800 SEK more expensive, an Xbox will be 400 SEK more expensive and so on. The worst is perhaps, however, that the tax unilaterally applies to goods sold by companies on the spot here in Sweden, which will greatly affect Swedish retail trade and push out business and jobs to other countries. Already today it is very easy to buy consumer electronics online, and if virtually every item costs SEK 400 more here, the more and more consumers will switch to it. Then Sweden loses employers' contributions, income taxes, VAT, corporate tax and so on, which risks far exceeding the tax revenues Magdalena Andersson and company had planned from the beginning. The referral bodies are in a row to back up the proposal, and the investigation's own expert from the Swedish Tax Agency has also strongly rejected the introduction. The industry believes that the tax will mean that 500 – 1 300 jobs will just disappear from Swedish industry. Probably the same number of jobs disappears in the retail sector as well. I believe that, overall, this is probably the year's biggest economic policy failure. Mr President, I would like to Despite the sad subject, I would like to wish the President, the committee colleagues and the other audience a Merry Christmas. I wish you all a moment with family and friends.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-968	Mr President, I would like to If you merge all 28 EU Member States, it is the world's largest economy. The EU has 500 million inhabitants and, therefore, they all form a larger economy than both the United States and China. As an organisation, the EU has both merits and shortcomings. The shortcomings are quite clear: too generous agricultural policy and cohesion policy, as well as the bureaucracy in Brussels, to name a few examples. But it is clear that there are also a number of huge advantages, such as that we can make joint decisions in parts of law enforcement and that there is an opportunity for Swedish young people to study and work in other countries. There is also an important part for the business community and Swedish companies, namely the possibility of participating in other markets in Europe. For example, we make joint decisions on so-called product requirements. It could be about the rules that will apply to allow you to put a passenger car or a truck on the European market. In the past, the focus was more that there were different regulations that applied in different countries, but through the possibility of making joint decisions, for example, one can say to a company that is selling a truck: The following environmental and product requirements apply. It is a requirement for 28 Member States, which are the world's largest economy with 500 million inhabitants. Josef Fransson's hometown of Skövde has a considerable part of the Swedish automotive industry, including the world's largest factory for the production of large diesel engines. Josef Fransson says that we should leave the EU, and that in practice means moving away from a regulatory framework – a diesel engine – for the whole of Europe and getting different regulations in different countries. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Josef Fransson: Why do you want to worsen for such an important employer as Volvo in Skövde?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-972	Mr President, I would like to That was a nicely formulated question – why I want to make things worse for the big employer in Skövde. That, of course, is not true. The issue of European cooperation is, of course, a huge debate. I hope that it will take more place in the political debate ahead, not least in view of England's Brexit. More countries may follow, and then it will be interesting to ask what happens on the day that Europe – this monster state building – actually collapses. What I think Lars Hjälmered and many others with him have not understood is that the Swedish Democrats want European cooperation. We want close cooperation with other democratic European states in a wide range of areas. On the other hand, we are not supporting the European Union and the ambition to make the whole of Europe into a single great monster state or something more similar to the United States than Europe with its free states that have emerged for millennia. I believe that Europe should be reformed. Europe should not have such a large budget at all, for example. On the other hand, we can work together on, for example, cross-border crime or on chemicals legislation, standardisation of various products and so on. I want a free trade union – let it be clear! But Europe would not have to be all the other things. Get it off! Let it be a free trade union that has bilateral and multilateral cooperation in a number of policy areas. That is where I would like to go, and I think I have the Swedish Democrats with me.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-976	Mr President, I would like to After all, we have to take the organisations that are available, and then I would say that the European Union, with all its merits and shortcomings, is what we have. The benefits of this far outweigh the disadvantages. I am the first to say that there must be a number of fairly large reforms of cooperation. I mentioned some, such as agricultural policy, bureaucracy and cohesion policy, and we need more free trade in European cooperation. With this, as I said, we can also take a number of joint decisions, such as saying what requirements should apply if we want to sell a truck in Europe. Josef Fransson began by saying that the British discussion prompts us to have a Swedish discussion about whether we should leave the cooperation, and then he says: Wait, by the way, we will work together a little! This is where the problem arises, Mr President. He says that we should leave the EU but really have no idea, other than pious hopes and guesses, of what kind of agreements, collaborations or effects this would have on Swedish business. I am deeply concerned about that. For such an important employer as AB Volvo, who is located in Josef Fransson's hometown and who manufactures an awful lot of diesel engines, it is a direct competitive advantage to know that a single regulatory framework applies across Europe – for 28 countries, the world's largest economy. It's a single market. This is what Josef Fransson and the Swedish Democrats want to divide. It will be worse for Volvo to leave the EU and tread the path the Swedish democrats want. Again, Josef Fransson : Why do you want to worsen for AB Volvo, which is an important employer in Skövde?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-980	Mr President, I would like to There I got the same question again, a little messy like that. Lars Helmered comes with empty words. He talks about the need for reform of the EU and lists a number of bad things, such as agricultural policy. But that is what the alliance parties, or parties that are EU-critical a little half pretend, say at every election or at least at every election to the EU. But everyone knows that Europe is not going backwards. Europe is only moving forward. The EU never backs up. That's why it's gonna be empty words. There will never be a reform of the European Union, unless more people follow in Britain's footsteps, unless more countries say: We don't agree to this anymore. We want a Europe of free nations. ..................................................... It'll just be empty. I have nothing more to add.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-985	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by supporting the proposal for a special opinion on the distribution of appropriations in the field of expenditure which we are debating today and which is advocated in the Center Party motion 2016/ 17:3435. The other day I met an entrepreneur from my municipality. He was quite upset, sometimes also quite abandoned, while we were talking. He owns a workshop company, just like many others in our country. He was upset about the additional regulatory hassle that his company will have to put his teeth in from the turn of the year. I'll try to make a complicated story a little easier to understand. Previously, the workshop companies have paid 0,5 øre in electricity tax for each kilowatt hour. Other companies, which do not consume as much energy, have paid 29 øre per kilowatt hour to the Swedish Tax Agency. Now everyone, that is to say the workshop companies, must pay 29 cents. But every three months, those companies will get the difference back. It'll be like walking backwards. First, companies have to spend money. It is money that could be used for bills or for investing in the company. Then they'll work with the bureaucracy to get money back. And so it goes on every three months. An entrepreneur doesn't have time to do that. And that's just one thing among a lot of people. What are you supposed to do? The Center Party has some suggestions. We want to introduce requirements for one rule in and one rule out. Another thing we're talking about is sunset clause. That sounds really nice. But that means that a rule is given an end date for looking at the rule. If the disadvantages outweigh the benefits, it is simply removed. Another threshold for companies is, of course, that the costs of hiring are very high. This is particularly true for small businesses. When you're going to hire the first person, you wonder if you'll be able to afford to pay your salary all year long. Sometimes it's peaks, and sometimes it's valleys. But the employee should still be paid for the whole year. The Center Party therefore proposes that companies that employ their first person should not have to pay employers' contributions for the first two years. We also propose raising the ceiling for RUT. The government has dropped, from 50,000 to 25,000. We want to raise the ceiling to 75,000. There are many new arrivals. And many with foreign background have got their first jobs in the RUT sector. That is why we believe it is important to strengthen it. Another idea we have can also benefit new Swedes, including young people and perhaps many who are thinking about starting a business but think it is complicated. We're proposing input companies. Then you really need two things: a very good idea and a mobile phone. A maximum turnover of 250 000 per year is allowed. If you have done a job, you fill in the cost. The app draws directly from 25 percent and sends it to the Swedish Tax Agency. You don't have to mess with VAT and employer's fees. It can also be a way to get into entrepreneurship directly and try the wings. There are a few things I cannot help but mention. I think the Transport Committee has been talking about them all day today. But since it is important, I think it can be repeated anyway. It's about the mileage tax and the airline tax. I shall place particular emphasis on the kilometre tax, because we do not have much time. For me who live in the northern part of the country, where the distances are long, there will be problems with a distance tax. It can also be seen as a penalty tax for rural areas. Northern Sweden also contributes to Sweden's exports. 50% of the income we receive comes from exports. We have high wages in Sweden and will therefore not be able to compete with it. If additional costs are spent on our products, it will be difficult to compete. I was a little provoked a month ago when Magdalena Andersson spoke in Västerbottensnytt. She said that Norrland has such bad roads that what will come in from the road wear charge – as it is so nicely called – can be put on some of the roads there. Then I wonder who's going to drive on those roads. Many of the companies will have gone bankrupt when it comes to doing so. Another thing that I am inspired by and that is important to talk about is women's entrepreneurship. Today, one in four entrepreneurs is a woman. It is not a great rating for Sweden, which is one of the world's most equal countries. Many women went from home work during the 60's to the 70's to start working in the public sector. This, combined with kindergarten and preschool, enabled many women to enter the labour market. And it has helped us to be so equal. But it has also hampered entrepreneurship in that sector. It wasn't really until 2009 that we were given the right to choose the performers in healthcare, school and care – thanks to the alliance government. Then the curve for women's entrepreneurship also began to turn upwards. But now it turns down again. It is no secret that the discussion and investigation of a ceiling on profits in welfare have left its mark. Many people think it is wrong for the big companies to make excess profits and disappear with the money into a low-tax haven. But the problem is that you pull everyone over. Most companies are small, and many are owned and run by women. Lowering the RUT ceiling will lead to many being forced to close down their activities. Finally, I have to say that it annoys me that the feminist government is totally ignoring the profits of male construction companies, electricity companies and snow-clearing companies via tax money. But when it comes to industries where the majority of entrepreneurs are women, there should be a profit cap. Basically, this is about the government thinking that there are ugly and nice jobs. It's not very feminist.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1004	Mr President, I would like to I would like to talk again about the chemical tax. The Center Party was the driving force in this matter. At least I felt that way. You can correct me if you have another picture, Helena Lindahl. But that's really my picture. In your budget motion, you write that the Government proposes in the budget proposal the introduction of chemical tax, which is gratifying. However, the introduction has been delayed, which is unfortunate. Then the Center Party proposes that the chemical tax be increased. It should be the same model, but it should include more product groups to bring an additional 2 billion to the Treasury, already in the coming years. I don't know what product groups you're thinking, but we can stick to appliances and electronics. It will inexorably drive jobs away from Sweden – without any measurable benefit, either to the environment or in terms of exposure to chemicals. One might wonder how the Center Party has managed to get such a reputation for being business-friendly. It would be quite interesting to know. And why do you think it is better for foreign retailers to supply Sweden with goods?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1008	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Fransson, for the question. I think you have to keep several balls in the air. It is well known that the Center Party is in favour of entrepreneurship, but we are also a party that protects the environment. We believe in green tax exchange. This does not mean that we simply raise taxes one way and then move on, but that we want to increase taxes on what pollutes and lowers taxes on other things that benefit entrepreneurship. This applies, for example, to employers' contributions, or whatever it may be. In the end, it is not meant to be more expensive for companies. On the other hand, what concerns the environment is worrying. We have to change, and I think you can do both.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1010	Mr President, I would like to One of the points is that the Center Party has not been given a glimmer of criticism of the drafting of the proposal. That's my whole point. If you had come up with another model, you could have referred to it, but you have no other model. Here it is a tax on electronics sold in Sweden, but if you import your TV from Denmark or another EU country or from Norway you do not have the tax. 400 SEK for a cheap TV – it is a substantial amount of money at least for most citizens here in Sweden. Does it matter if I buy my Samsung TV in Sweden or if I buy it from Denmark? It doesn't matter to the environment. It doesn't matter at all. The only thing that happens is that the Swedish company is allowed to sell less for the benefit of the Danish company or that the Swedish company is rebuilding its corporate structure and acquiring stocks in Denmark. Swedish jobs disappear from Sweden to a lot of other countries – to what benefit, to what benefit for the environment? It's no use at all. That's where the Center Party's answer is due. Why don't you want these jobs in Sweden? What difference does it make?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1012	Mr President, I would like to Josef Fransson makes it sound just like this would be the only item in our budget. I wonder: Have you just looked specifically for this post, Josef Fransson, or have you read our entire budget? In the latter case, you would have read that there are a lot of investments in jobs and entrepreneurship that definitely benefit Swedish companies and contribute to the jobs being able to stay in Sweden. Let me give you some examples! I'll start with women's entrepreneurship. I don't know if it's so familiar to Josef Fransson, because I haven't seen a single word about women's entrepreneurship except that you want to remove various gender equality initiatives in relation to state-owned companies. We want to promote women's entrepreneurship through various initiatives, such as young entrepreneurship. We want young people already in comprehensive school to take part in starting and running a business. We want women who work in the public sector to also have the opportunity to see themselves as entrepreneurs and innovators and perhaps through innovation checks to develop an idea that may have significance for others. We want regional initiatives on gender equality and women's entrepreneurship via Winnet, and we want to see a variety of other initiatives. If there were as many women as men who would start and run businesses in this country, we would have 220 000 more companies. That is an example. Another example is that we want to start entry companies, as I mentioned in my main speech. This could also lead to more start-ups and fewer unemployed. We also want to raise the ceiling for the RUT sector, because we see that the services sector is growing and that many could get their first job there. These are some examples of initiatives that we make and that benefit entrepreneurship and jobs in Sweden.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1015	Mr President, I would like to We Liberals want it to be simple, rewarding and profitable to run a business. For us, entrepreneurship is both an expression of the individual's ability to realize his or her dreams and a prerequisite for our common community building. It is through the ability of companies to grow that jobs are created. More jobs in growing companies mean new life opportunities for individuals and reduced exclusion. In the long run, it means increased tax revenue, which in turn finances our common welfare. It is in this dual line of thought – freedom to the individual and solidarity to the one who has not yet realized his dreams – that social liberalism has its core. Entrepreneurship is a prerequisite for the implementation of social policy initiatives. Over the years, this has been formulated in visions from Bertil Ohlin's "free enterprise with social responsibility" to Bengt Westerberg's devis.Sweden needs both companies and kindergartens. The balance between the weakness of the state and the cartel formations of predator capitalism requires political leadership and a sense of finger. In order to be able to make good laws that strengthen the nutrient climate in a country, there must be an insight, an empathy and – I would say – a gratitude to where the foundation of our prosperity lies. Prosperity is in entrepreneurship. It is about people of flesh and blood, Mr President, hardworking welfare creators who deserve our respect morning and evening. Once again, we have gathered in this House to discuss industrial policy as a category of expenditure, specifically category 24. This is a political misconception that has penetrated all the way into the parliamentary order, I would say – like that business would be a expenditure for the state, when in fact it is exactly the opposite. The areas of expenditure include, for example, category 1 Kingdom government, category 6 Defence and community emergency preparedness and category 25 General grants to municipalities. All provide examples of government expenditure of different types. Business cannot be included among these. This item deals with one of the main revenue areas of the State and should be referred to as such. Mr President, I would like to It is companies and enterprising people who create jobs and growth. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenues, which in turn funds our common welfare and other spending areas in the state budget. According to the Swedish Financial Control Agency, central government revenues amounted to SEK 1,787 billion in 2015. It is revenue that can be allocated to, for example, Category 9 Health, health and social care, Category 11 Economic security in old age and Category 16 Education and university research. What I want to highlight here is actually the approach, the view of the public administration. It is not politicians and political engineering that create jobs through publicly owned companies, public spending on subsidies or the like. I would like to say a few words about the Welfare Investigation. Ilmar Reepalu recently submitted a report to the government. The study proposes a 7 per cent profit ceiling for certain companies operating in the welfare sector. The investigation uses a new legal term, It is an investigation with new directly anti-business proposals that hit an entire industry where many women are active as corporate owners, managers and managers. The Uncertainty Government may think of a ban on profit as a game to keep the support of the Left Party alive. But for those who are affected, this is a direct blow to the business. The imposition of a profit ban on welfare companies is an unprecedented regulatory burden. Only the threat of such legislation has already hit hard on business start-ups to make welfare more effective. One example is that banks have started to deny growing companies financing, as repayment capacity is reduced as much as profits are limited. Uncertainty affects welfare-creating entrepreneurs who want to streamline and create conditions in healthcare, school and care, for example through a centralised IT department. If there is anything to be limited, Mr President, it is, in my view, this type of legislation. Real jobs are created by real companies. To get there, the soil must be nutritious, and money must be invested where it is most useful. In revenue area 24 – I refuse to call it anything else – we in the Liberals are doing, for example, a small but well-thought-out provision for Almis's further development. We are doing this in order for investments to be made in small and medium-sized enterprises that will once grow large, companies that will contribute additional revenues to the public purse. We all know that four out of five new jobs are being created in small and medium-sized enterprises, and if we are going to invest somewhere, it is there. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals question the government's so-called active industrial policy, which essentially involves hiding additional tax chandeliers in the corridors of state authorities. How these millions will benefit companies is unclear. The work of innovation systems does not create jobs. This is what makes the country's entrepreneurs, and they need less, no more, political and public interference. The Liberals' proposal on how to steer the country in the right direction is to be seen as a whole, with a comprehensive and balanced draft budget. We see a value in holding the budgetary process together and thus avoiding individual break-outs from the current budgetary order, contrary to what the Social Democrats did in 2013 when they broke this order. In our proposal for a responsible business policy for Sweden, we present start-up jobs. It is a form of employment for young and newcomers with lower entry wages, lower income tax and abolished employers' contributions. The reform is primarily an effort to open the door to the groups in our society that have been excluded by the walls of lock-in effects. But it is also there for those traders who want and dare to take the chance to expand their business. An active enterprise policy must begin and end in the welfare creators who enable us to come together and distribute a state budget. Distributing resources above their heads feels fundamentally wrong for those who have grown up with jobs on the workshop floor at Saab Automotives and as an entrepreneur in the higher education world. Lower taxation and smarter forms of employment had strengthened the conditions for traders. However, it is a decision that the Swedish Parliament is not ready for today. I support our particular statement and wish everyone a Merry Christmas.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1029	Mr President, I would like to We know that Sweden is one of the world's best countries on innovation but among the worst at commercialising results. Christian Democrats want to strengthen collaboration between universities, research institutes and business and see new joint research programmes that reflect business needs. The State will participate as a significant financier. However, the overall innovation system is making a large amount of public money available, and a review of actors at all levels is needed to make the system more accessible, understandable and adequate. Innovation requires knowledge and a company or an entrepreneur who can turn knowledge and ideas into products, services or improvements in general, as well as a market where the customer buys the products and services. Having an enabling climate in society where ideas are appreciated, taken care of inventions and can be further developed is part of the Christian Democrats' view of personal development that contributes to a co-creating Sweden, where everyone's unique and equal value is the basis for the construction of society. I believe that the whole chain of actors in this ecosystem can certainly justify their existence and demonstrate good work. Despite this and despite the fact that there is help to get across the country, many companies are set up without any contact with business advisors so that they do not know where to look for someone who can give advice and support. It may also be that existing companies lack contact with academia and research as well as do not know how to seek funds for the development of companies. Supporting inventors in their ideas and financial support for the application for the protection of intellectual property rights or for patenting is also important and important. The start-up scene, which is talked about in many contexts, sounds like something neat and fancy. In Stockholm, the start-up scene is apparently one of Europe's or even one of the world's top. There are many start-ups, which you can also call them. In Sweden we also have six unicorns, i.e. companies that are valued at over 1 billion dollars. As a small country, of course, we should be extremely proud of this. However, let me also highlight that the start-up scene does not only need to be in Stockholm. We need support and advice for business creation in Åmål, Sundsvall or elsewhere in the country. Since most people depend on both private and public funds at local, regional and national level, a review of the process chain from the inventive stage to business advice, research and development is needed, in my opinion. We know that government funds are allocated through government agencies, such as Vinnova and the Swedish Agency for Growth. Other types of support are provided through research institutes and works councils. The latter, however, is steadily decreasing with the current government. The question is what will happen in 2017. Should the cheese skin or rather the cake pad be produced again this time when the regulatory letters are written? As was done last year before Christmas and until January, to cut back on support throughout the innovation chain for the really young through the Snille flashes, for female entrepreneurship via Winnet and for other actors such as the New Entrepreneur Centre and Coompanion and others is and was incredibly poorly managed. It is, of course, about being able to have a plan for how to redistribute resources and be able to justify why. This has still not been done satisfactorily. When we talk about a redistribution and perhaps a reprogramming of these actors' efforts, it should be done in such a way that they feel that it is working. It must be possible to develop a method of measuring not only the number of enterprises that arrive but also how they grow in economic turnover or the number of employees. The start-up companies around us usually don't become unicorns. We shall be aware of that. Instead, it is often quite small companies. If we were talking about a start-up scene in Åmål or Sundsvall, most people would probably not recognize themselves in this concept. They talk about setting up and running businesses based on a need that they have seen. This, with the management and management of funds and who does what in the innovation system, has been pointed out by the OECD, Esbri and Forska Sweden. Other organisations have also written about innovation development in different ways. It is not that the government does not have to take off for future research proposals. It is interesting that the Committee on Economic Affairs does not get the research and innovation bill for information. All parties are now writing accompanying motions for this. Of course, we should have had it automatically. If we are talking about innovation, we should be able to have views on it. It would be natural, I think. There is, of course, sometimes coordination between other committees. Why is there not between the nutrition and education committees? Life science is also an important industry for Sweden. All parts of the innova tion system are there. The tourism industry is an industry that really needs more support in its research and development. Compared to other countries, we are clearly lagging behind in this area. Space and aviation are other industries that Sweden is good at, where further research and development efforts are also required. We have opportunities to plan and implement initiatives with a bearing on commercialisation, benefits in general and for certain areas in particular so that not least the academic world together with the business community and the public can be much better at producing innovations.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1041	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by stating that this has so far been a rather strange debate, at least if you consider that what we are going to debate is NU1 Area of Expenditure 24 Business. What we are debating here are the efforts we are making to strengthen the business community in Sweden. There are different types of targeted actions distributed through our works and agencies. Liberal misunderstandings could possibly explain why this grant is cut so incredibly hard. All parties spend considerably less money than the government does in this area of expenditure. On the other hand, there are very different ways of reducing this, which shows a great amount of sprawling on these issues. Together you cut off a terrible amount if you weigh together all their different planks in the area. Perhaps that is why we have chosen to talk so little about the area of expenditure itself in this debate. Rather, it has been about all sorts of other things, even if for everything in the world it is things that affect business. The common denominator so far is tax reductions. If you count together all the tax cuts proposed by the bourgeois parties, you land at just over 80 billion. It should be remembered then that it is not long ago that we left a policy on tax cuts as a panacea to address all the challenges that both business and society in general have. The former bourgeois government reduced taxes by SEK 130 billion, without getting any further push on either business, job growth or welfare. It is a policy that has been tested and has failed. That is why we now have a government that invests in people, in building Swedish competitiveness and that invests in jobs and growth. Although one might think that Sweden is doing very badly right now, I can – as a counter-image – conclude that it is not mi n picture. Sweden is doing well, and Swedish companies are doing well. The start-up is increasing, not decreasing as you might think when listening to Helena Lindahl and the Center Party. Investments in productivity are increasing for the first time since the financial crisis. You wouldn't believe that when you listen to Lars Helmered and the Moderates. The restaurant industry is growing despite terrible overtones about how this industry would suffer from a red-green government policy. I noted that the hamburger chain Max, who has been active in the electoral movement and in this debate before decisions were taken, is now planning for its biggest recruitment effort ever. You need 750 new employees in a short time. Jobs are getting more. There have been about 120,000 more jobs. There are as many jobs created under the bourgeois alliance government. It is usually said that it is because there has been a financial crisis. It's true. We had a financial crisis in 2008 and 2009. But before that, it was two years of growth, and after that it was four years of growth. That math didn't add up. This government's policy to strengthen Swedish competitiveness has actually succeeded. Jobs are getting more. Unemployment is now below 7 per cent, that is lower than it was throughout the bourgeois alliance government. Youth unemployment is the lowest in the EU, which it certainly was not just a few years ago. Growth has stabilised at high levels, around 3%, which is currently the highest growth in the EU as a whole – higher than in the US. Of course, we also have great challenges. Those whom the entrepreneurs I meet often describe as the biggest bottlenecks are the lack of staff with the right skills. There's a shortage of housing, so you can't move to where the jobs are. This also applies to infrastructure. All three areas are heavily invested by the government. These are also areas which, to varying degrees, the bourgeois parties and SD reject in the budget. You don't want to spend any money on them. It rejects the Skills Lift with 70 000 new training places in both vocational and UH places and higher education places. This is central and crucial to continued Swedish growth. I have noted that there has been prayer in some quarters and apologies for the policy pursued, not least by the Moderates. Is there anything that you should be praying for is that you did not invest in this area when you had the opportunity. It is also being built more now than it has been built since the 1970s, when the million-dollar program was built. 64 000 new dwellings will be built this year and 67 000 new dwellings will be built next year, according to Boverket's forecasts. With regard to the area of expenditure that we have to deal with here today – all other issues are actually in other areas of expenditure – it is sad that the overall opposition rejects the government's efforts on, for example, the new industrialisation strategy. This thing with ugly jobs and nice jobs has to stand for the one who says it. For me, there are no ugly and no fine jobs. But you can think about how you think if you don't think it's important to invest in digitalisation, on automation, on skills development, on strengthened innovation power and on test beds – just to take a few examples. The demo fund is also of great importance for continued growth. It is also in this area of expenditure. Almis lending to companies throughout the country is also part of the area. These are areas that are partially cut off by several of the bourgeois parties. The export strategy is extremely important. Swedish competitiveness and growth are strong because we are a strong export country. Here, too, the majority – but not all – of the bourgeois parties cut back on the efforts made by the government. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for reservations to be rejected.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1061	Mr President, I would like to The striking thing about the speech by Jennie Nilsson from the Social Democrats is how incredibly satisfied she is with the state of things, how amazing everything is in Sweden. There are no problems and no dark clouds anywhere. The shades are there, and we see that Sweden is basically a very good country. For many people here it works just fine, and it works well for many companies. Mr President, I would like to We also have a great challenge and problems with exclusion. To use the government's own figures: On a normal day, over 900,000 people don't get up, get dressed, drink morning coffee and go to work. According to the government's own figures, the number will increase to about 1 million people who don't work a regular day in 2020. We see the difficulties for young people who have not finished high school and for foreign born with little or no education. A large number of people have come to Sweden in recent years. You can look at a historical track record of how it has worked in Sweden, and then I talk over time and not about this or the old government. After eight years, half of those who have come from another country have been in employment and one in four have worked. This is one of our biggest challenges. At the same time, we know that four out of five jobs come in the smallest companies. Then the political conclusion should be: How can we make things easier for these people and help them in different ways? The Social Democrats are now working for a shock increase in the tax on small businesses and entrepreneurs in the country, what they call the 3:12 acquis. It may be a small or large company, but very often it is a question of ordinary decent entrepreneurs: bakers, car-platers and others who are now getting a 25% tax increase. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask Jennie Nilsson: why are you raising the tax on small businesses? How does it lead to more jobs?
i-GdRtrbMozyGBtWAG6vKY9V	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, Lars Helmered! I can share parts of the problem description that Lars Hjälmered makes of the challenges facing Sweden. However, I do not share Lars Helmered's proposal for solutions. I don't think there's gonna be more jobs because you only lower taxes. Investment is needed in education, infrastructure, housing and in strengthening Swedish competitiveness. The government does, and so does the results. We have many challenges, not least linked to integration, that Lars Hjälmered raises up. There I can agree that the period of establishment that we have in Sweden is far too long. It must be a priority political issue to shorten the period of establishment into the Swedish labour market. It is therefore very sad that, for example, the Moderates and Lars Hjälmered reject the fast track for refugees to become self-employed in the area of expenditure we are dealing with today. It also rejects the fast track that exists, if I remember correctly, in some other areas so that people can quickly validate their knowledge from their home country and get to work in Sweden. As far as the 3:12 rules are concerned, we do not know what the government's proposal will be. There's an investigation. The investigation has been for a referral. But there has not yet been a proposal or proposal from the government. It would have been considerably easier to discuss a proposal when we actually see what it looks like when the government has weighed up the views that have come in the consultation round and set its foot in a proposal.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1072	Mr President, I would like to Let us first state that the Moderates are too fast track. We have a special budget effort to get newcomers into, for example, self-employment. There will also be more school effort with the Moderates' budget than with the government's budget. Back to this with the exclusion and conditions for entrepreneurs. We note that on a normal day 900 000 people in Sweden do not go to work. It's almost 1 million. Then we should think in different ways: how can we make it easier for small businesses and entrepreneurs in the country when we know that four out of five new jobs are coming there? The former alliance government set up an investigation to look at the entrepreneurial tax, the 3:12 framework. The focus on this investigation and the clear task was to facilitate generational shifts and to improve the regulatory framework. Then this government chose to change the regulatory framework. Now we have the proposal on the table with a sharp increase in taxes. For an ordinary baker, a flower delivery or something else, this means a tax increase of the order of 25 per cent for the individual entrepreneur and the small business owner. If you don't want to trust me, because I understand that Jennie Nilsson isn't always so impressed with what an opposition representative says, you can look in the Entrepreneur newspaper. It is the organization Företagarnas own newspaper. It has 70 000 members. If the proposal the government is working on, they say: The result can be described as anti-business. In our view, the study's proposals, taken as a whole, provide less favourable conditions for entrepreneurship, which would lead to reduced start-ups, fewer investments and lower employment. They continue: There are once again very anti-business tones, something that we have unfortunately had to experience on several occasions in recent times. The government signals that it is not desirable to be an entrepreneur. It is also not desirable to employ. The whole proposal breathes a negative attitude towards the country's small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I therefore wonder, Jennie Nilsson: Why do you want to strike so forcefully at those who create the jobs and can help us push back the great and increasing exclusion?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1079	Mr President, I would like to It is still the case that we do not have the proposal on the table. What exists is the investigation's proposal plus that the question is now being prepared in the Government Office after it has been out for a referral. There you take and look at the different views that have come from different stakeholders. At the same time, I would like to say that today we have a tax system that is old and needs to be reviewed. Above all, one had to look at how to better reward long-term ownership and so on. There is a whole host of things, as far as the tax area as a whole and its objectives are concerned, which we would have had to do. It is a great pity that the Moderates have not so far shown interest in doing so. However, I can note that the investigation that has initiated that we are now looking at the 3:12 rules at all came, just as Lars Helmered said, under the alliance government. One reason was that the 3:12 rules were used to make tax plans, simply to evade tax. There was a problem with how the system was used. I think all governments have changed the 3:12 rules. It's troubling. By definition, this means, in principle, moving borders elsewhere in the system. I would have preferred to have seen a holistic approach taken. But I trust that the government will listen to the consultation bodies that exist and look at the reality that exists and land in a balanced proposal. When it comes, I hope that Lars Helmered and the Moderates can have a serious discussion about what is good and bad in it and not always just be proponents of as low taxes as possible.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1084	Mr President, I would like to I have spoken a lot of chemicals tax here today, and I intend to continue on the same theme. I hope that when you go to bed tonight, you will dream of a chemical tax along with the concept of a commercial accident. If you do, I feel I've succeeded. The government now chooses to introduce a tax that is advanced, poorly thought out and that will hardly lead to other effects than Swedish jobs ending up in other countries. It is also likely that the losses from employers' contributions, income tax, VAT and corporation tax will far exceed the revenue to the State that the tax is intended to deduct. Hundreds of jobs, perhaps even thousands, are expected to be lost in both retail and Swedish industry. My question to Jennie Nilsson is: how does this rhyme with Stefan Lövven's lofty target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020? This is very much exactly the type of job that we need to keep in Sweden.
i-PXYS5bbRWvHKY5xnB43R54	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, Josef Fransson! I am still completely amazed that the Swedish democrats in an entire budget, with so many investments in areas relating to industry, proposals for tax cuts and, for that matter, tax adjustments upwards, are totally caught up in a single tax. It is, however, not our responsibility and is not included in our report. I'm completely puzzled. What I can say is that the purpose of the tax is for us to have a non-toxic everyday life and for the polluters to pay for their emissions. These are fundamental principles which many of the parties in this House support. I can also say something else. If a producer can show, unlike what Josef Fransson said in his speech, that it does not have this type of substance in its production, it can get a reduction of tax by up to 90 percent. I find it very difficult to understand how to land so hard in just this treasure. I would like to ask a question back to Mr Fransson, who is linked to our spending area. You cut SEK 490 million on the grant 1:2 Research and development. In addition, you do so in your budget for the part relating to research and development for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is much more relevant to this debate. I would like an answer to how you think there.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1091	Mr President, I would like to I find it regrettable that thousands of jobs are being waved away just like that. A new system is now being introduced which the Tax Agency's expert dismisses – calls for a rejection because it will be administratively complicated and entail a lot of costs. The referral bodies and experts in a wide range of areas say that the proposal will not expose us to a smaller amount of chemicals but will only mean that we are shopping our products elsewhere. That is why I think it is important to raise this issue because it has not been debated. Now it may be primarily on the tax committee – I do not know – but they do not have the business perspective as our committee has. We are dealing with business day-to-day, and that is why I believe that this issue can very well be raised here. It's not the least bit weird. The proposal shall not be introduced by mid-2017. Perhaps we can all agree that the proposal did not turn out well. Strike it out. It's gonna cost more than it tastes. Let me say something about Jennie Nilsson's question. An incorrect number came in. I want to remember that it's 260 million, not 400 something. But the figure is linked to Vinnova, to the strong criticism that the agency has received because it cannot show a good efficiency, a good outcome, of the money. We from the Swedish Democrats find it strange that the government only spends more money on a business where it is difficult to demonstrate the benefits.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1095	Mr President, I would like to The figure was wrong in that I rounded it nicely down. The exact figure according to the tables is SEK 493 million. The Swedish Democrats justify this in their budget motion because the investigations cannot clearly show a result, but at the same time the investigations cannot rule out that the proposal produces results. The Swedish democrats are sweeping almost half a billion, i.e. 493 million, by saying that one should investigate what effect it will be before serious action is taken on the proposal. What does that mean in budgetary terms? Given the unseriosity of managing a budget in this way, there is one thing that the Swedish democrats write in their reservation in this area, namely that they note with joy that they are free from both social democratic and liberal economic theories. I'd like to take it further than that. I argue that the Swedish Democrats are free from all economic theories.
i-5p2QcVFtbm4RyA6G93Gqm7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jennie Nilsson, for your speech. I also noted that Jennie Nilsson was extremely pleased with the government's efforts on jobs and entrepreneurship. She talks above all about how much the government is now investing in jobs and growth. I noticed that Jennie Nilsson forgot the small detail that the government also raises taxes and fees for companies by 30 billion. My question is about women's entrepreneurship. In the Center Party's budget, we have set aside money for this. We do not think it is equal that one in four entrepreneurs is a woman. We can do much better. Sweden would earn money if more women started and ran businesses. The Center Party is committed to re-establishing Winnet. We also want to focus on day-to-day innovations in the public sector. It is women who may not always look at themselves as innovators or entrepreneurs. Maybe they don't even have a company today. Most people don't. We in the Center Party want to hand out innovation checks. We believe that there may be gems that can make health care more effective and that can become revolutionary. It is not just a matter of the fancy companies that are included in the research and innovation bill, but there are many gems on the working floor as well. The Center Party also invests in Young Enterprise in primary school and immigrant women's entrepreneurship.
i-PdCaJG232bGzv1KwnUFtAQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the question! In part, we have a different view of what is effective in highlighting women's entrepreneurship. In 2015, the Government commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to develop a strategy to ensure that women and men have an even withdrawal of all available business support. That is not the case. For example, Almi should pay particular attention to and ensure that there are structures that make it possible to see and understand the innovations, ideas and business plans that women have that may look slightly different from those traditionally linked to men. It is a great strength, not only because more women are eligible for loans or for venture capital, but also because other types of companies are eligible for such measures in other parts of value chains and so on. It's important. I can also note that the proposal on innovation cheques, which Helena Lindahl is talking about, already exists. Ninety million divided over three years has Vinnova to offer to small and medium-sized companies, which can then be used for the development of business ideas, products, services and processes. I think we have covered the area well, and we are thinking, above all, broadly and with more structure.
i-4MdMwssWdStt5q9sZoiAwH	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jennie Nilsson, for your answer! I note that the government removed all targeted efforts on women's entrepreneurship when it took office. Now you don't have any bets. That's what Jennie Nilsson conveys. With regard to innovation cheques for small and medium-sized enterprises, Jennie Nilsson has misunderstood. The proposal is not aimed at existing companies, but is aimed at nurses and carers who work on the floor and who have not started a company, who may not even see themselves as future entrepreneurs or innovators. But there are huge values that could be developed. We want to encourage the public sector because we believe that the gems may be there. How is the government feminist? You say that the government is feminist when it comes to investing in women's entrepreneurship. There is no targeted focus on women's entrepreneurship. Only one in four entrepreneurs is a woman. I wish there would be no need for targeted efforts without it being more equal. But now that is not the case, we need targeted initiatives. That's why I feel provocative that you want to put a cap on profits in welfare where there are so many small companies owned and run by women. Don't you understand that you are cutting the women at the ankles in your eagerness to chase the big business that sneaks away with the money bag to low-tax countries? That is not what this is about. Why don't you put a roof on male-dominated industries? You have never ever talked about those who gravel roads or other things for the public sector, but the women you should go after. Why do you do it, Jennie Nilsson?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1111	Mr President, I would like to I don't know richly in which end I'm going to start, and I only have two minutes. I will begin by stating that according to the information I have – and I am sure Helena Lindahl has exactly the same – there are basically no small companies owned by women in the public sector who have profits above 8%. That is not what the proposal is about, and that is not what it intends to do. What is distressing about Helena Lindahl's entire speech and all the proposals she makes are that she consistently targets all of her proposals for female entrepreneurship to the public sector. Women should stay in the public sector. It is a convenient way of saying yourself to be a feminist; then you don't have to get any criticism if the men get upset if the women get into their arenas. For me, there are neither fine nor ugly companies. On the other hand, it is essential that entrepreneurs have a business idea where someone wants to pay more for the goods or service they sell than it costs to produce. That's the foundation. Then it needs to be encouraged to ensure that there are good conditions around. There should be access to skills, capital, housing and so on. This applies to both women and men. To put a general pressure on all authorities to ensure, for example, that the aid paid out is paid equally to women and men is a quite powerful measure that Helena Lindahl just counted out. I can only say that I feel it is a pity that we cannot have a debate on female entrepreneurship, which is that we want to see women as entrepreneurship in all parts of our business life. I think that this would have been a serious debate, and I think that the women had earned it.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1117	Mr President, I would like to As Jennie Nilsson pointed out, it is Category 24 Business that we are debating here today. I believe that everyone in this House sees the value of a vibrant and well-functioning business sector. I spent yesterday looking through last year's debate on this issue. I discovered that many of the different political representatives pointed to the same objective but had slightly different solutions to it all and very different pictures of what the different political proposals mean. We have also noticed that here today. The goal of enterprise policy expressed in the Government's budget proposal is to strengthen Swedish competitiveness and create the conditions for more jobs in more growing companies. So everyone who has been up here in the speaker's chair has talked about exactly the same thing, and it is good that we have the same objectives in this policy area. On the floor, it is about opportunities for people to have their needs met. It is about being able to buy the goods and services you cannot produce yourself, but also about earning a living and developing. I myself come from an entrepreneur's family and know what it means to be a small business owner. In other parts of my family there is experience of the heavy industry. Business and politics in this area affect not only my life and the lives of my fellow human beings, but also the common and global challenges of society. Enterprise policy can also deal with social, economic and environmental issues, such as sustainability. It is important to balance all these areas of policy. The EUR 6 1⁄2 billion that this expenditure area has as its framework is used to create good conditions for business development, promoting entrepreneurship, strengthening innovation, simplifying business, promoting competition, promoting tourism, and immaterials and corporate law issues. This is complicated matter. When I am outside the Riksdag, I meet individual entrepreneurs and professional organisations who have much more concrete concerns. In common with most of the people I've met, the difficulty is finding the right skills. You want to hire, but you can't find people with the qualifications you're looking for. It is no longer a question of matching job seekers with those who want to hire. More resources need to be devoted to helping people who do not have a job to receive the training and skills that companies are looking for. That is why I am pleased with the government's efforts in the education system. It is an investment in continuing education, supplementary education, polytechnics and komvux – the right to attend komvux. Special training efforts are needed in the shortage professions, and these are things that the government is taking care of and trying to fix. The stakes are many. We also need to be faster at taking advantage of the skills of newcomers. Several parties have mentioned this today. Through the government's efforts on SFI and fast track into the labour market, foreign-born people are given faster ways into society and into work. The government's investment in transport infrastructure is also important as it enlarges and connects labour market regions and increases companies' ability to find staff and broaden their markets. Broadband initiatives are also important as they create conditions for companies throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to For SMEs that want to grow and employ, many times there are other difficulties, not least in terms of access to capital. For the smallest, the banks' fewer and fewer local offices are a concern. I believe that the government needs to look at how to improve access to capital, and I know that the government is also working on this, not least through its own authorities. Almi and the Norrland Fund have increased the possibility to borrow money. State funding efforts are being reformed precisely to strengthen access to capital for innovative and growing companies throughout the country. The government also continues to work towards a reduced regulatory burden. That is something on which we have a common goal: to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to develop and operate. I have not heard any party representatives say that they have an ambition to make it more difficult. On the other hand, we all know that we need legislation which, on the one hand, ensures fair competition and, on the other hand, protects environmental protection, labour protection and many other important social interests. The government also intends to direct the relevant authorities towards digitising many of the contact routes it has with entrepreneurs and citizens. It should be the first choice, thus making it easier for companies to provide data. Another important issue that we do not have time to address today is, of course, to work for social and cooperative companies. They also need better conditions to grow, and they have a major role in society to be a way in for people who are now far from the labour market. I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1133	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin with the issue of competence, which Jonas Eriksson highlighted. I share the view that this is one of the biggest growth barriers we have right now, and it is clear that part of the answer is to develop the Swedish school and education system so that we learn the right things and are prepared for working life and perhaps a life as a self-employed person later. But beyond that there is also a need to, I believe, nurture and develop the important labour immigration reform that the Green Party, together with the alliance parties, pushed through six seven years ago. It has been incredibly important, and we see that the reform as such is fundamentally positive and good, but we have major challenges today in the Swedish labour market regarding its application. This will not least hit the Swedish IT sector hard, where instead of looking at a single whole when reviewing permits, people who actually work and pay taxes are forced to leave the country while we have the broad discussion about exclusion. I would like to start by calling on the Green Party to jointly change and develop this, because we need to attract more talented people to Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The second thing I want to get into is about entrepreneurship and the entrepreneurship tax. Jonas Eriksson himself mentioned the importance of access to capital. Then we are dealing with the taxation of the individual small business owner and entrepreneur. There is a huge concern right now in the country about the proposal that the government has on its table about a strong increase in entrepreneurial tax or a deterioration of 3:12 regulations that can mean an incredible amount of tax in both the crown and the ring and the percentage. That is what the organization Företagarna called anti-business. Then I would like to ask the question: what does Jonas Eriksson think about this? Is it really reasonable to increase the tax on small businesses and entrepreneurs as the government is now considering doing?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1139	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for this change of line, which gives me the opportunity to further develop a few things. I am pleased that you want to continue to develop the policy on labour immigration, as we agreed on last term of office. I also hope that you will be able to come back in certain other areas, in immigration and migration policy, where we also had a consensus at the time. As far as the 3:12 rules are concerned, I have no other answer than what Jennie Nilsson has. We both represent the government in this debate. I am convinced that the government will listen to the consultation bodies and make reasonable balances, as has also been mentioned earlier in this debate. There are reasons why we are now reviewing the 3:12 rules. Even previous governments have done this. The aim, of course, is not to put away the legs of small businesses, or entrepreneurs overall, but to tackle the abuse of the 3:12 rules as a tax planning tool.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1143	Mr President, I would like to I hope – and I really mean this – that we can come back to the issue of labour immigration, although it is not the Committee on Economic Affairs that formally deals with this in Parliament. If we look at the needs of important parts of the Swedish business community, we see that there is a need to attract more talent and more talented people to Sweden. Then we need to nurture and develop the regulatory framework that exists. I also think that we should look at the changes that took place in 2014 in terms of keeping skilled non-European students and researchers in the country. This is important in a wide range of parts of Swedish business. Now let me come back to this with 3:12. I am fully aware that this is an investigation proposal, but the problem for these government parties is that there is a carpet of measures that have deteriorated, increased and – above all – caused a great deal of concern to small businesses and entrepreneurs. Jennie Nilsson said in her line shift with me that the answer is not always to lower the tax. That is quite right, but what the government is doing now is greatly increasing the tax on small businesses and entrepreneurs. This is done at the same time as we have a broad exclusion with over 900 000 people who do not go to work on a normal day. We know that four out of five new jobs are being created in the smallest companies. The government is looking at proposals that in various ways worsen for individual small businesses. For bakers, car-plate repairers and flower messengers – for individual entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs – this may be a 25% tax increase. The question then arises as to how this could lead to better conditions for them to pursue their ideas and create new jobs. On the contrary, I would say that the focus should be on what was the main reason why the Alliance set up the investigation, namely to facilitate generational shifts. I am opposed to the views of the government parties when they talk about large tax leakages and paint out small businesses as swindlers. Rather, the focus should be on asking how we can help and make it easier for them to create additional jobs to meet the major societal challenges. Why this tax shock, Jonas Eriksson?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1149	Mr President, I would like to Of course, many people are unemployed today, but we are not helping jobs by reducing taxes. What those people need is education, perhaps a complementary one. They may be in some kind of limb housing where they have previously been on sick leave and are not good enough to seek a job, but they are also not sick enough to be on sick leave and because of this little money to live on. With regard to the people who are unemployed today, it is no longer a question of matching problems, as we have talked about in the past. Instead, it is a lack of the skills or work experience required by the labour market. Perhaps you do not have the right knowledge of how the labour market works. It is therefore extremely important for the government to continue its labour market policy measures. However, this is not the same as simply raising the tax on entrepreneurs. There must be reason for taxes. Taxes are, of course, a form of financing, but the tax system must be properly designed. Neither I nor the government have any ambition to raise taxes in any way for the sake of it. There are no ambitions of such a fiscal nature alone. On the other hand, there are many other reasons for reviewing the tax system. That is why, like Jennie Nilsson of the Social Democrats, I think it would be good if we could start discussing together the forms of a larger tax review that makes it cheaper to work and more expensive to consume what is ultimately not good for society or for individuals.
i-7bqHBGg8mYLz7nuVt9wT7J	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jonas Eriksson, for your speech. I would like to continue to talk about women's entrepreneurship. I am a little interested in what Jonas Eriksson and the Green Party think. The other day one could read a debate article in Aftonbladet of two well-known business profiles in Sweden: Rune Andersson, Chairman of Mellby Gård AB, and Carl Bennet, Chairman of Getinge AB. They say that the major audit firm PWC has carried out an analysis of Ilmar Reepalus's report. Writers report that the impact assessment of the auditors is critical. 25 per cent of all well-carrying companies in Sweden, about 4,500, will be wound up quite immediately because in splendor, with Reepalus strangulation coupling, they will not be able to make any profit at all. ..................................................... The Green Party obviously contributes to capping profits in welfare. Welfare covers industries where many women run companies and work. I wonder why you restrict women's opportunities to make money from a job well done when you do not do the same to men. And why do you ignore profits made by male construction companies, for example, through tax money, but do you put a cap on women who, for example, do private home care?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1156	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if we have a different view of what has actually happened. As I recall, it was not only changes in RUT that the government implemented earlier, but also changes in ROT – it introduced a limitation on the possibilities of using ROT. To claim that only traditional female business sectors are being targeted is not correct. I believe that the most important measure of equality policy, or reform, would be if we could have a more equal take-up of parental benefit. If parents as men and women, men and men or women and women could share the role of parental leave, this would affect the labour market, the expectations of men and women and also the opportunities for men and women. If we could agree in this area, to have a shared parental insurance policy, I believe that this would also immediately make sense in terms of women's opportunities to start up and run businesses. They would then not just be referring to the welfare area or traditional women's professions.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1159	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the answer, Jonas Eriksson! I can sympathise with some of what you are saying, but I still do not think that I have really received the answers to the questions I asked. This is not just about RUT, it is also about the LOV, the Freedom of Choice Act, which will disappear completely with the closure of a lot of these companies. People will have no freedom to choose. When I talk about the public sector and about health and social care, I do so because very many women are in these sectors. It can be seen that women's entrepreneurship increased after the introduction of LOV in 2009, but now the curve is going down quite steeply. This is because you are really scared, because you don't know what will happen when a ceiling is set on making profits in these industries. As far as public money is concerned, I have never heard of you saying at all that we are going to see what we are going to do now with this construction company's money. We'll see how big the profit the company makes and what they do with the profits. Maybe they shouldn't make that much money. ..................................................... Nor have I heard such a thing in the case of an electricity company or snow clearance company that performs work for a municipality or county council. Never have you ever said that you should set a ceiling on the profits these companies make. In health care, care and school, there are very many women represented with their businesses, often small companies. Don't you realize you're going to cut them off at the ankles?
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1164	Mr President, I would like to According to a Sifo survey, as many as eight out of ten Swedes want to see restrictions on profit withdrawal in their welfare. The government parties and the Left Party are also very concerned that the tax resources in these sectors actually go to what they are intended for. In the enterprise areas you are concerned with, operating margins are not very high, but the return on equity is much higher than in the service sector – in some parts as high as 37 – 40 per cent. I don't know the exact number. If you compare us in Sweden with the other Nordic countries, we stand out. There are other ways to organise the options. But I have nothing against the fact that they are also operating in these sectors with privately owned companies. In fact, it does not matter very much, but I would like to say that if we now believe that there are companies that no longer want to run these companies for profit, there are others who are prepared to operate alternative activities there. There was even before we gave this opportunity. Then there are an enormous number of women in these professions, and I am glad that many people want to work in them. But the concern is that there are so few men who want to work in them. I guess we have to work to get men into these professions rather than pushing even more women in there. We need an equal labour market in all areas. That is what I think we should put gunpowder on and not continue to allow large profits in this sector.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1168	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's economy is doing well, but it is far from everyone who can take part in it. For a long time, gaps have increased. There have never been more Swedish billionaires than today, and they are richer than ever. There are many of us around Sweden who want an economic policy that is for everyone and that settles up with inequality. It was with that in our backs that we in the Left Party entered into the budget negotiations with the government. And we have achieved reform after reform that makes life better for ordinary citizens. As a left-wing partyist, I am proud of all the fine equality reforms that we have achieved. But we need to be more pressured to tackle the great inequality. A policy is needed that takes the problems of economic disparities seriously. An economic policy is needed for everyone, not just for the richest. Mr President, I would like to I would say that advice and venture capital that dare to invest in new ideas and companies are among the most important things that the state can do to support entrepreneurship. Above all, it is important to provide advice and capital that comes to many people's ideas, so that many can try and so that we can bring the future spearheads to companies in Sweden. As in previous years, all the bourgeois parties and the racist party cut down on the expenditure area of industry compared with our draft budget, even though they themselves make themselves known as friends of the business community. In their defence they draw a lance because there are measures in other areas – then think reduced taxes – that will support entrepreneurship. Here is the dividing line in Swedish politics. It is a dividing line that is clear and ideological, because the tax system is already rigged for the richest. As I said, the political objective is the same, a strengthened Sweden where companies develop and grow. Today, I am proud of the budget negotiated by the Left Party with the government, with efforts aimed at both large and small businesses and with investments in both existing entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs of the future. During the year, state venture capital has been reorganised. One conclusion to be drawn is that, with the previous structure, there have been very many state actors and little opportunities for governance and new initiatives. I therefore welcome the fact that the government presented the State and Capital Bill, which was negotiated with us, which said that a merger of Inland Innovation and Fouriertransform was the right way forward. At the end of the year, the newly formed company Saminvest AB will start. I believe that the committee should monitor its development closely, because we need to continue to monitor the regional perspective so that state venture capital contributes to regional growth throughout Sweden. In working to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, I believe that Almi has a key role to play in supporting, advising and lending people to start-ups. It is particularly gratifying that Almis activities lend to a large extent to women, people with foreign backgrounds and young people, groups that otherwise risk being discriminated against in the loan market. And when Almi lends out, the banks will also be willing to raise funds. Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to also highlight investments in other areas of expenditure that are important for entrepreneurship and business in Sweden, and I will highlight three of them. Although in many cases driving licences are necessary to get a job, many, especially young people, cannot afford to fix it. Therefore, there is an intention in the budget to introduce CSN loans for driving licence training during the term of office. I believe that this can lead both to companies getting easier to find skilled workers and to make it easier for new entrepreneurs to start up their businesses. There will be money for broadband, SEK 1 billion. Efforts will be made in areas where commercial expansion is not possible. This means that existing broadband support increases from SEK 3.25 billion to SEK 4.25 billion. The availability of high-speed broadband makes it easier for rural people to stay and for new people to move there. It also facilitates the start-up of companies and enables the companies that are there to continue to operate and develop their business. A continued internationally competitive industry is one of the most important prerequisites for Sweden's prosperity. Policies need to support the adaptability and competitiveness of enterprises so that they can benefit from technological development. Today, Billerud Korsnäs Board made an incredibly important decision for Sweden. It is about building a new cardboard machine at Gruvöns paper mill in Grums for SEK 5.7 billion. The machine will replace four of today's paper machines and is 400 meters long, making it one of the world's largest machines. The decision means that more than 1 000 people will work during the construction period and that the jobs at the paper mill in Grums will remain for a long time to come, as they have strengthened their competitiveness. This year, the Left Party has presented an industrial motion to Parliament, whose proposals we will be debating in other reports. I think it is particularly important that we do as the Norwegians and link our industrial policy with our rural policy so that the whole of Sweden can actually live. Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, the work for full employment is central. However, the question is where to develop new jobs in the globalised economy and how to build the welfare and prosperity of the future. It is the conviction of the Left Party that it is not through lower wages and worse conditions in the labour market that we are creating the jobs of the future. Instead, we need to be a country where we develop innovations and innovation that are translated into new products and services. Then Sweden can stand strong, reach the goal of full employment and develop as a knowledge-driven nation. Therefore, the research bill was welcome with even more investment in Sweden as a country that develops the companies of the future. Therefore, the investment under the grant 1:2 F is also a major investment with SEK 265 million. The Left Party is a nutritionally positive party that wants to shift Sweden towards the challenges of the future in order to maintain and strengthen our competitiveness for the future. I call for the budget proposal to be approved.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1185	Mr President, I would like to Necessary for companies, Håkan Svenneling mentioned in his speech. Yes, I would say that there are a number of things that are absolutely necessary. Getting more trade agreements is one of those things. For example, it would be very good if Sweden and Europe could get it with countries such as Canada and the United States. There we know that the Left Party belongs to the real banner drivers, and Håkan Svenneling most personally, when it comes to going against the kind of trade agreements that are very important for many industrial companies and other companies in Sweden. Reasonable and good conditions for small businesses and entrepreneurs are also such a thing. Earlier today we discussed this with the Entrepreneurial Tax, where one can almost guess what the Left Party wants, namely to tighten up and clamp down on various entrepreneurs. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight another point, namely that of independent actors operating schools and health centres, among other things. There, the Left Party is also a banner driver when it comes to broad brush strokes in terms of profit in welfare. In practice, it is a question of pushing out staff cooperatives, foundations and private companies that run different types of activities in different ways. As a Gothenburger, I can take a concrete example that shows how it works if you are disabled in Gothenburg and are deemed to have a need for daily operations. In Gothenburg, Håkan Svenneling's comrades say that as a disabled person you can only choose between different municipal performers. I ask myself, why? The reasonable thing about this type of rights legislation is that you have your basic and fully reasonable needs met and that you decide yourself as a disabled person whether it is assistance or otherwise. I do not understand why the Left Party is better placed to decide who should offer daily activities than the functionally impaired Gothenburger himself.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1189	Mr President, I would like to Lars Hjälmered addresses many of the issues that the Left Party is pursuing and about which our policy is concerned. Let's start with profits in welfare. The Left Party's proposal is not about reducing the diversity of performers but about cleaning up the incredible profits and among those who have profit hunting as an incentive in welfare. We see how large international companies write on their websites that they invest in Sweden because they know that they get paid for their investments because it is possible to pick out any amount of profit. They may not express themselves exactly that way, but that is the significance of what they write on their websites. What we want to do and what Ilmar Reepalus's investigation Order and order in welfare wants to do is just create order and order. It is a matter of obtaining a permit to receive tax funds for the purpose of operating. It is about the money going to what it is intended for. If you do personal assistance, medical care, care for the elderly or school, the money should go to this. They should not go to anything else, and they should not end up in a tax haven. Therefore, the investigator has suggested that you have a limit on how much profit you can make. Today, over-profits are being made in welfare, and we must put an end to these. I do not understand why the Moderates do not want to put an end to these excess profits. These are resources that we take into tax from our companies and that we want to use for welfare, but instead you want to let them go to rich people who hide them in tax havens. It doesn't make any sense to me. It would be much smarter to put an end to the excess profits and create a system where we can have a variety of performers who can compete for different innovative ideas. Now they are competing for who can cut the most in wages, who can serve the children crisp bread and who can give the worst care to those who need it. That is not the welfare I want to see in Sweden.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1194	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates' proposal is to have a profit ban at times when an activity is not of the right quality. Here we think that we should tighten up properly and in a way we have not seen before. That's perfectly reasonable. Let's look beyond Håkan Svenneling's rhetoric and see what this means in practice. What do he and his companions really want? That is why I took the concrete example from Gothenburg. If you have an inborn or acquired disability, it is about basic and important needs to work in society. The need for assistance, especially housing or daily activities, can be assessed. When it comes to day-to-day operations, the Left Party in Gothenburg says that you can choose freely as long as you choose municipal activities. In practice, this means reducing the influence and power of the disabled over their everyday lives. That's how the Left Party wants it. The second thing that means is that if the staff in these important activities want to start a staff cooperative, the Left Party says no. That is how it is in concrete political action. The agenda in the city where they have ruled for two decades is that you should have less influence if you are disabled and that left-wing politicians should control which activity is best. I think that we should have clear quality requirements and the opportunity to tighten up if we do not meet the quality requirements. But we should also be clear about saying that people who have perfectly reasonable needs, such as disabled people who need daily activities, should decide where they get these provided, not left-wing politicians.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1200	Mr President, I would like to I dare to say that Ilmar Reepalu, in his 856-page study on order and order in welfare, clearly finds out why it should not have quality requirements. It does not work as a model, and so he proposes instead a model that introduces a ceiling on how much profit you can make. Let me take an example of why it doesn't work. Canada has a model with clear demands on quality. Among other things, you have a requirement that everyone's toothbrushes at retirement homes should be labelled with names so that no one gets someone else's toothbrush and gets sick. This has happened once in a retirement home in Canada. One criterion, then, is that the toothbrushes should be labelled with the names of the users. I think it's a pretty bad way. It is better that the retirement home has a lot of staff and a good care where you take care of the old ones based on the needs of the old ones. This is the way I want to go. Lars Helmered took an example from Gothenburg. I can take an example from my municipality of Karlstad. There, the moderate-led government chose to privatise personal assistance. It was simply impossible to choose the municipality as the executioner. It clearly had ideological pretences. It was chosen to spend it on an operator owned by a venture capital company that hid taxes. The effect was that people stopped or got lower wages, contracts and conditions, and this led to a deterioration for the users. I think that we have ended up in a debate in Sweden where we listen very little to what the citizens want and think. Even a majority of Lars Helmered's own voters want limitations on profits in welfare. Instead, however, the Moderates side with capital and do not solve the problems created by the profits of welfare.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1205	Mr President, I would like to As Jennie Nilsson said, the debate has not really concerned the report before us. This may be because there is quite a lot of consensus among political parties in terms of industrial policy. Or it is because the other parties have a little lower ambitions and put a little less resources than the government parties together with the Left Party do. Another difference is that interaction seems to cause an almost allergic reaction. I will deal with three areas and begin with cooperation. Let me quote a recent Nobel Laureate, Bob Dylan ..................................................... Most entrepreneurs I meet are not satisfied. They call for more dialogue and cooperation between industry, research and the public. Like the business community, we believe in more collaboration. The Prime Minister therefore set up an Innovation Council immediately after the change of government. The Innovation Council took five initiatives for collaborative programmes to build on innovation efforts and strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. The first is about next generation travel and transport. Here the challenge is to make Sweden a more transport efficient society with more resource efficient vehicles, more renewable fuels and less emissions. It is undeniably exciting with self-driving, shared and electric vehicles in system solutions. Why not start in the countryside? The second collaboration programme is about smart cities. This highlights the growing environmental impact of cities and the differences between urban populations in terms of health and care. The third is connected industry and new materials. Sweden needs the innovation power of industry and industrial service companies to meet the societal challenges we face. This includes sustainable materials, cloud services and additive manufacturing. The fourth collaboration programme is about life science, and it has been up and running since June 2015. These include biological medicines, qualifications and forms of employment, and digital standardisation. The fifth is about circular and bio-based economy. In one year, what the earth needs a year and three months to recreate is consumed, and of course it is not sustainable. Here are some important areas of innovation procurement, recycling and wood building. Mr President, I would like to Collaboration is important as well as a growing and well-functioning business community throughout Sweden. Here the forest has its given place. 70 percent of the country's surface is covered with forest, and it is our main natural resource. On behalf of the Government, Growth Analysis and Statistics Sweden has examined how much of the Swedish economy is bio-based. This is 7.1 per cent of Sweden's GDP and 23 per cent of total goods exports. Forestry and products with forest as a raw material dominate the Swedish bioeconomy and have every opportunity to increase. Everything you can make of oil can be made of forest, and not least wood building production can increase. The national forestry programme, which the government has developed in collaboration with stakeholders, has been referred and is being worked on in full. Mr President, I would like to The last thing I want to mention is the growing tourism industry, which employs people from Abisko to Österlen. It is an important nutrition throughout Sweden, not least at my home in Åre. The tourism industry is currently taking market shares from the rest of Europe. The tourism industry wants more cooperation, and the government has therefore set up a forum for regular meetings where everything that is important for the tourism industry is discussed. The Government has also set up an investigation into a coherent policy for sustainable tourism and growing tourism. The last time this was done was in 2004. Many efforts are already being made, and I would like to mention some of them. The Swedish Agency for Growth continues with efforts for Destination Development, Visit Sweden has more resources for marketing Sweden abroad, in the Government's export strategy there are efforts to get more international events to Sweden and the Government and Swedish Municipalities and County Council have reached an agreement on simplifications for restaurant entrepreneurs using digital solutions. Finally, cooperation and dialogue can successfully identify common priorities and build on Sweden's strengths and challenges, making Sweden as a whole more competitive. Therefore, there are also resources allocated to this in the Government's budget. Together is a beautiful word, Mr President. Moreover, I agree with Jennie Nilsson's speech and I would like to support the committee's proposal and the rejection of the reservation.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1221	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by supporting our specific opinion, which talks about our view of regional policy as part of our overall policy. The area of regional growth has a framework for total expenditure that must not exceed SEK 3 595 481 000. We have in the report no proposal for a distribution of appropriations other than the government. On the other hand, we differ in the direction of regional growth policy on a number of points, and the policy in this area is also found in the other policy areas that Parliament has to deal with, such as the environment and agriculture, education, transport, the labour market and others. For us, it is about development power, growth potential, employment opportunities and people being able to grow and develop. The ability to attract, retain and develop skills, businesses and capital is crucial for regions and municipalities to become competitive and contribute to national growth. We want to invest in green industries as a growth engine, continue work within the framework of the rural development programme and, at the same time, invest in local services. This creates important conditions for people to live and work in rural areas. Access to good roads and railways and the continued expansion of broadband and improved opportunities for mobile communications are crucial for communication opportunities. We want to see a continued positive trend in the tourism industry, from north to south. We would also like to emphasise the importance of aviation in creating regional growth and linking up regions. Every day a large number of people commute from different parts of our northern country to meet and do business in our big cities and out in the regions. Therefore, a planned flight tax is not what Sweden needs. We can see how star families get to mothers, fathers, grandmothers, grandmothers, and so on who live and live in different parts of the country. Not least by Christmas, it is clear at our airports how transport brings people closer together. The fact that it has been possible for many to fly has created shorter routes for family ties while technology has been developed and will continue to do so. Our cities need to continue to develop and be attractive to the local economy as well as to the regions, the nation and to the global interest. In other words, regional growth is to emphasise the need for Sweden to continue to develop at a high rate and for the whole of Sweden to live. General efforts at national level for jobs, training and an improved business environment need to be combined with regional growth efforts. Each municipality and region has a responsibility to carry out the necessary efforts to improve the business climate. It is therefore strange when the government puts forward proposals in the field of public procurement that exclude smaller companies from participating. The local kitt is often the network of small businesses. Here are those who deliver locally grown food to schools and care, and here is also the opportunity to join forces with more companies and create new innovations and good solutions for people and business. We look with concern at the Government's proposal to increase taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship – a policy that is in stark contrast with our policies and that will hit regional growth in the country. We are opposed, for example, to the Government's proposal for an increase in petrol tax and the introduction of a kilometre tax, which will make labour commuting and transport in business considerably more expensive. Within regional growth, there are EU funds to strengthen regional growth. What is important to say about these is what the report is also talking about in general, namely that the funds paid out should be as effective as possible and bring back as much benefit as possible. This requires the authorities that have to manage funds in the form of project money to be monitored, evaluated and to demonstrate compliance with the objectives. We want to see further clarity in this. In this context, we welcome Almis new role and would also like to see clear evaluations along the way. The fact that our authorities need to go along with our business community in order to find solutions and not lock-ups is extremely important for developing and not dismantling companies. As an example, I will mention drones, which is a technology that serves a direct function for Swedish industry. Two examples are forestry and agriculture, where images provide direct and substantial benefits for food strategy and the environment, as well as short lead times and simplifications in contact with county administrative boards. Grab this fast! There are possibilities here. In the field of research and education, the government has presented its proposal. I would just like to say briefly that it is high time that the government set its foot on the proposals received to shift its activities and create new opportunities for the country regionally, nationally and internationally. I'm talking about ESS and Max IV. Space research in the north, to take another part, has an innovative potential as well as in the development of tourism. This and much more brings Sweden forward. Our elongated country needs much more. More about these discussions and the content of this part of the budget of the report, we will come back to this spring.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1235	Mr President, I would like to Regional growth is probably not the most interesting subject for most listeners, although it is an extremely important subject that affects many people in Sweden. We must therefore do our best to arouse public interest. The Swedish democrats are in favour of rural opportunities. At the same time, we cannot turn a blind eye to the major challenges that exist, not least the involuntary urbanisation. We believe that the state should play an active role in terms of the conditions for regional growth. Different instruments such as regulation, taxation and subsidies can alleviate some short-term problems but cannot solve the major challenges in the long term. Promoting real growth therefore requires a mutually beneficial interaction between both the private and public sectors. A crucial condition for companies and citizens to have the opportunity to operate throughout Sweden is access to both private and public services. Greater coordination of the public and private sectors is perhaps the best solution. The survival of a local grocery store can be determined by the ability to provide public service. Our goal is to create the conditions for strong but sustainable growth so that companies and citizens can live and work throughout Sweden – in all regions. We believe that growing tourism is positive for employment in rural areas but also for promoting migration and combating depopulation. Local entrepreneurs play an important role in rural development, which was very clear when I recently visited a lifestyle home outside Gnosjö. The company is extremely creative by making use of all the materials available on the entire industrial site, and plans are being made to build its own thermal power plant to run on waste from surrounding industries. When the accommodation is completed, new service opportunities will be created linked to the accommodation, while it will greatly increase population growth in the small town. Friluftslivet reaches many social groups and is an important resource for regional development and thus an important part of the cluster of industries that interact and create the conditions for living businesses in a vibrant countryside. Together with our Nordic neighbours, there are great opportunities for closer Nordic cooperation to promote outdoor life. A strong and developed outdoor life provides many jobs, namely about 200 000 in the Nordic region. In addition, outdoor life has great economic value. Nordic cooperation also plays an important role in the exchange of, for example, labour, experience and tourism between countries. Mr President, I would like to One of the cornerstones of our regional policy is the partial relocation of state jobs from major cities to rural areas, the creation of rural authorities and works, and the prevention of the relocation of state jobs from rural to urban areas. With current technological developments, there are good opportunities to place government jobs outside major cities, and there are few acceptable reasons to centralise these jobs in general. However, relocation is a long-term objective. If it happens too quickly, it poses economic, social, logistical and organisational problems. So relocations should be done with caution and as a complement to new start-ups, which should mainly take place in rural areas. Relocations have a positive impact on the tax base of the municipalities concerned, which means better welfare in the form of school and care. This in itself increases the attractiveness of living in these places. For a long time, the focus has been on the potential and expansion of cities, as is clearly seen in government policy. The government does not seem to see the conditions, challenges and consequences of the policies pursued. Public transport investment is good, and in cities it is possible to choose public transport before the car larger. However, in rural areas public transport is often not available as an alternative, nor will it exist for the foreseeable future. If Sweden is to continue to have a vibrant rural area, then instruments and initiatives must be made with a holistic view. Priority must be given to both rural and urban areas. The government's announced instruments are made only for urban residents, such as increased fuel tax, air tax and kilometre tax, and are at risk of destroying a large part of Sweden's countryside. Compared to the costs of high-speed rail, relatively modest sums of money can significantly reduce the journey time and increase the capacity of existing main rail lines. At the same time, there would be scope for important investments in road, air and maritime transport, both regionally and nationally. That is why we say 'no' to the high-speed railway. In this context, I can mention that Storstockholms Lokaltrafik has about as many travelers on a day as SJ has on the Stockholm – Gothenburg route in a whole year.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1251	Mr President, I would like to There is a boom in Sweden, as we have heard earlier this evening. That is why more jobs should be created, and employment should increase. Instead, the division of society increases. There is a division between city and country, between North and South, between young and elderly, between highly educated and those with no upper secondary education, and between native and foreign born. While large cities and regional centres are growing and developing, many smaller rural and sparsely populated areas are suffering from reductions in the wake of globalisation and centralisation. This division also exists in other countries, which proved somewhat surprising to many of us in connection with the Brexit vote and the presidential elections in the United States. Regional enterprise policy is not only a question of jobs and entrepreneurship, it is also a question of keeping a country together and creating a belief in the future for all citizens. Mr President, I would like to The government has chosen to pursue a policy of increasing deficits, despite the fact that it is in good times that shelters should be built for the future recession that we all know is coming. The measures financed by the Government with borrowed money, according to the Government's own expert authorities, have a non-existent or negative impact on the labour market. It is not a responsible policy. I and the Center Party believe that Sweden needs a new leadership to renew the Swedish model. In the Center Party's budget movement we set out a different direction for Sweden. The issues that I and the Center Party believe should be prioritised are about providing Sweden with financial responsibility for difficult times. Efforts are also needed to break the division of society that creates exclusion. These include implementing labour market reforms, tax cuts and measures aimed at getting people into work and leaving dependent on benefits, creating empowerment and increasing security throughout the country. In addition, the local government sector needs to be strengthened and more investment is being made in jobs and entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to I and the Center Party want Sweden to be an example in the environmental field. It is regrettable that Sweden's climate emissions are no longer decreasing and that the government announces tax increases on things that endanger jobs in rural areas and have little effect on climate emissions. Climate change must be strengthened. This requires strong instruments, where the polluter pays and where revenues from environmental taxes finance reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship in a green tax shift. I and the Center Party believe that in a boom there is a unique chance to build the Swedish economy strong, to implement structural reforms to broaden growth and create jobs for more people in order to take the next step in the climate transition. Mr President, I would like to Since Parliament has given budgetary policy a completely different direction from that which I and the Center Party want, we will not be taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations. But, of course, I support the specific opinion of the Center Party in this report. The draft budget of the Centre Party shall be considered as a whole in which parts cannot be broken out and treated in isolation. I will now give a little account of what the Center Party's policy to stick together and develop the country looks like. Regardless of the place of residence, all people must have equal opportunities to live, work and run businesses. Rural areas and cities share many challenges with each other. In rural, agricultural and suburban areas there is a need for more jobs and for a well-functioning and climate-smart infrastructure. The need for a reformed housing market is also high throughout the country, whether it is about enabling construction in coastal locations in rural areas or whether it is about reforming the rental market in big cities. Equal opportunities throughout the country, however, do not mean uniformity, I think, but politics needs to be designed with the understanding that the conditions are different in different parts of the country. Such a development is made possible by a decentralised and local policy, in which decisions are taken as closely as possible to the people. A well-functioning transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for living, living and working throughout the country. The Center Party prioritises increased railway maintenance, increased and early investment in transport infrastructure through alternative financing solutions and further investment in IT and broadband deployment. Mr President, I would like to The budget bill states that the Government intends to introduce both kilometre tax and airline tax. The Centre Party has no intention of contributing to taxing distances and reducing rural businesses, jobs and opportunities as costs are increased due to a distance-based road user charge, which should in fact be called rural tax. Instead of introducing taxes that have a small environmental impact, the government should have a much clearer focus that rewards technological innovation and reducing emissions and that does not hit a rural area that already has the odds against it. Similarly, the digital infrastructure is essential for working and living in the whole country. Everyone should be able to be a part of the digital society, and the Center Party therefore wants to see a digital right of access that guarantees stable and fast connectivity throughout the country. Sweden's goal is that 90 per cent of all households and companies should be able to get fast broadband by 2020. The Centre Party's long-term goal goes even further: All households throughout the country should have access to broadband. Mr President, I would like to Together with the other alliance parties, the Center Party has left a motion in which we present our common view of regional growth. It will be discussed later during the current Parliamentary Session, and I will then have the opportunity to come back and explain further the policy I advocate to create strong regional growth that is sustainable throughout Sweden.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1269	Mr President, I would like to Globalisation leads to changes that have an impact in different parts of Sweden. Society changes. Urbanisation is fundamentally based on people's free choice, something that I and the Liberals naturally defend. At the same time, there are challenges and differences between cities with a strong, growing service sector and areas with local challenges in terms of high vulnerability and a few major employers. The starting point for me as a liberal is to protect people's power over their own situation and the opportunity to create their own future. A liberal rural policy seeks to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in a smaller urban area. Enterprise development, labour supply, education, access to public and commercial services and investment in information technology and infrastructure are essential elements of a modern regional growth policy. They are a prerequisite for life outside urban areas to function and for us to have a living countryside. In order for people to want to live and for companies to want to operate throughout Sweden, it is important that there is access to a functioning basic service at a reasonable distance. This applies to public authorities as well as municipal and commercial services. Maintaining a basic level of service throughout the country is also important for people to feel safe. At the same time, it is an important prerequisite for the whole of Sweden to be able to contribute positively when it comes to the reception of refugees. The various functions of society need to be available in rural and sparsely populated municipalities as well as in urban municipalities. In sparsely populated municipalities, service solutions based on local conditions and collaboration with companies and civil society have the opportunity to become long-term and sustainable. A good condition here is to set up so-called service centres in connection with the local retail trade or other established collection points in rural communities. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight the importance of effective communications throughout the country. We think it is important that we continue to invest in rail, road and other infrastructure. We have debated it earlier this day, so I will not go too far into those issues, but a well-functioning transport industry – including the transport industry – is of considerable importance to a country with Sweden's geography. At the same time, we need to take account of ongoing climate change, and so the Liberals have proposed a rescheduling of the travel allowance. The proposal aims to limit the travel allowance in regions with a well-functioning public transport system and to be more generous where public transport is less widespread. In other words, you need the car more when you live in the country. Furthermore, I and the Liberals are opposed to the introduction of a so-called kilometre tax, which means more expensive transport and thus less competitive conditions. The Kilometer tax hampers regional growth by adversely affecting industry, entrepreneurship and jobs. Mr President, I would like to The IT capacity in sparsely populated areas needs to be improved. Broadband and access to connectivity are today as important a part of the infrastructure as the electricity and road networks. Similarly, good connectivity is of great importance for regional growth, businesses and private individuals. The task of the state should be to create the conditions by removing the obstacles to this development, but also to support where the profitability of connectivity is lacking. With regard to appropriations 1:1 Regional growth measures, I believe that a return to previous levels of funding is reasonable. With previous levels of funding, I mean a level that corresponds to the appropriations for 2015 through the Parliament's decision in December 2014. This means that I believe that we should reduce the current proposal by 88 million in relation to the Government's proposal. The Liberals, together with the other alliance parties, have presented our parties' shared view of regional growth, and we will discuss this later at the current Parliamentary Session. We will then have the opportunity to give further details of the policies that I, the Liberals and the Alliance advocate. Of course, we support our specific opinion, but I will be content for the time being. I wish everyone a Merry Christmas!
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1280	Mr President, I would like to In the previous debate on business issues, we heard many different statements from the government parties and the Left Party. Of course, they appear to be the givers of good gifts – it's a role they have. Perhaps especially in Christmastime you can expect Santa Claus to come, but how many of us believe in Santa Claus? In terms of regional growth, it is primarily a matter of enterprise policy. How else is there going to be growth? We Christian Democrats believe that it is small and medium-sized enterprises, which are often family businesses, that should be at the heart of the development of industrial policy. That's where the jobs are created. However, companies look different. People are different and create different kinds of businesses. I still find it remarkable that so little is said about the importance of creating different types of companies that fit in different industries and at different times – at different stages, so to speak – to create a long-term business. There I am thinking, for example, of social economy entrepreneurship, where civil society has a huge role to play, not least in rural areas. It is cooperative activities, funds, foundations and so on, which need good conditions to be able to remain and work in rural areas or small municipalities. If we look at healthcare companies, we can see that government policies have greatly reduced interest not only in setting up such companies but also in continuing to run them. That is why there is an important question to be asked, as many have done during the previous debate: is it the case that this is just a big city question? Do you think that only people in the big city, where there is the opportunity to run different types of businesses, should be allowed to choose something? Is that what you think of it on the part of the government parties? Or is it the case that even people living in other parts of the country should actually be able to choose, for example, what kind of retirement homes or childcare facilities they should have? I think it is important that all parties see that people's inherent creative power sometimes needs stimulation in different ways. It is not always about money; it is about an important attitude and an attitude towards entrepreneurship, not least. There have been proposals for a change to the 3:12 rules, and one can say that the proposal leaves a great deal to be desired. The Christian Democrats would have preferred to have abolished the 3:12 rules, but now that they exist, we would like to use them to facilitate generational changes in family-owned businesses and improve access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. The fact that smaller municipalities have experienced large increases in the form of people who have come to Sweden from other countries, as well as that they may have a few international companies, should be borne in mind that even the municipalities in the country have an interest in creating more international activities. N is I talk to business leaders and they can say what they would like if they moved out from for example Stockholm, Gothenburg or Malmö, it is interesting to note that it is about that there should be English speaking classes for the children, or an international school. It doesn't have to be big businesses, but it's precisely to make the family feel comfortable and want to be there. Otherwise, it won't work. However, the incentive for this type of school activity seems to be almost non-existent, at least from the government's side. With regard to infrastructure with good accessibility, our colleagues in the Committee on Transport and Tourism have debated many different types of infrastructure today, not least regional airports. I can't help but beat a punch for it. Last Thursday was the annual flight day here in Parliament. The various needs and opportunities of regional airports were discussed. The EU has been against different rules. There have been different interests on the part of the European Union in terms of state aid rules and so on, which has made our airports more difficult. But now the government is coming up with the big manslaughter team: a proposal for a flight tax. I ask again, as I did in the energy debate last week: why is the basis of the problem not being tackled? It's about getting more biofuels. If it is something that can create regional growth, it is precisely to be able to harness our natural resources, so that we can produce more biofuels for all types of transport. If we are to have good communications in our elongated country, thereby creating growth that develops prosperity and creates jobs, we must also look at long-term conditions for aviation in particular. It is not good enough to have short-term solutions. The state has taken care of the profitable airports, while municipalities and regions have had to pay money to cope with the need for air transport. Regional airports are also of public interest, not least in terms of ambulance flights and security – customs, police, fire aircraft and so on. Mr President, I would like to The government and the government parties talk a lot about the opposition being in favour of tax cuts. But if it is something these parties themselves are pushing, it is tax increases. If we are now to fight for what is best – to raise or lower the tax – what I understand can never be a profit for Sweden or any growth, not least for the regions of Sweden, if you increase the tax on transport through kilometre tax, air tax and so on. Do you want people to live in the country? It is possible to make a further contribution to urbanisation and to increase housing construction in the larger cities. But I don't think that's the idea. If everyone is to have the opportunity to live throughout Sweden, the government must reconsider.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1294	Mr President, I would like to Regional growth policy is an important area. We need a policy that will make the whole country live. There's a lot going on in this area. The Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development will soon be presenting a number of proposals in this area, which is extremely important. The Government has put forward and implemented proposals for support for commercial services in rural areas. It has had a significant effect. We who have been on the Parliamentary Rural Committee did a tour during the winter months. Håkan Svenneling, who is also here today, was there when we visited a small shop outside Branäs. With the support, the store could have expanded. They had started to have café activities and could sell hot food. If we had not put forward that proposal and put it to the table, we would not have had the conditions for it. We are investing in broadband expansion, which is a prerequisite, and not just in the big cities. It's got to be all over the country. If we have through the century managed to draw a power line to every single cabin and telephone line across the country, we will be able to invest in broadband as well, so that it reaches every single cabin in the country. There, too, the government is very clear. I very much look forward to a debate on these issues this spring – at least what will come out of the Parliamentary Rural Committee. I'm a little perplexed, though. The previous speakers have talked about the importance of making this kind of investment. But, among other things, the Center Party is concerned that it is creating a deficit in the state's finances. It should be remembered then that when we handed over government power in 2006, there was a surplus in state finances of about 70 billion. When we took over government power again two years ago, there was a deficit of 60 billion. It's been grazed off. The budget is now in some balance. It is clear that one should worry that it can lead to deficits. You're supposed to have respect for it, and you're supposed to have order in the state's finances. But in this area, regional growth issues, it is important that we make efforts. It does not make it easier to reduce the tax annually, as was done during the bourgeois reign, by about 130 billion. It does not create any more conditions. The Parliament's objective, which this House has set itself, for regional growth policy is development power in all parts of the country with enhanced local and regional competitiveness. The report describes that regional growth policy should contribute to the three priorities of the government. The government is clear that we will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, achieve national environmental objectives and achieve equality between men and women. The report also sets out the EU's objectives and priorities for cohesion policy. This strategy is based on three priorities which are intended to reinforce each other. It is smart growth, sustainable growth and inclusive growth. Building on the partnership agreement concluded by the government with the Commission, which specifies the implementation of cohesion policy in Sweden during the next Structural Funds period, the government decided in July 2015 on a national strategy for sustainable regional growth and attractiveness between 2015 and 2020. The strategy and its actions shall contribute to the achievement of the objectives of regional growth policy. According to the strategy, the priority areas of regional growth policy are innovation and entrepreneurship, attractive environments and accessibility, skills provision and international cooperation. Mr President, I would like to In order to finance efforts for sustainable regional growth and business development in Gotland County, funds were added through the Riksdag's decision. In connection with the spring change budget, SEK 5 million was added to Gotland. In the 2017 Budget Bill, the Government proposes to increase the allocation for regional growth measures by 20 million. The next year will be increased by 35 and 40 million, between 2018 and 2019. I note that the Centre Party is cutting back on this type of effort in its proposal with the corresponding appropriations. Liberals reduce a total of 88 million, unclear why, but the explanatory statement says it goes back to the 2015 framework. The Moderates report no deviation at all. I do not know whether it is a mistake or whether the Moderates share the government's economic policy in this area, but there is some uncertainty. For us Social Democrats, it is important to mention that all parts of our country should live and develop. If we are serious about regional growth policy, fiscal policy must be stopped and investment made in all our Sweden. The Swedish model should be developed, not phased out. Step by step, our community building is strengthened. More people are coming to work, and Sweden can now show the highest employment ever measured in the EU. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. Schools hire and show better results. Sweden is leading the climate transition. Wideband expansion is being reinforced. The welfare sector invests a historically strong addition of 10 billion annually from 2017. It is a policy that takes responsibility for Sweden and shows results. We will have to debate more proposals in the coming years in the area of regional growth policy, which I very much look forward to. The question of whether regional growth policy really needs to be debated, discussed and strongly pursued. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1310	Mr President, I would like to I asked for the floor because Mattias asked if we have the same policy. I thought I was clear when I tried to tell you that that was what we did not have and that we should debate it in the future. Air and kilometre taxes have been debated here today – transport tax or rural tax, whatever you call it. The 3:12 rules have been addressed and what they mean. Only last week we discussed public procurement, where the precision of a scalpel is cut right into small business. There should be a great potential for switching up with jobs and opportunities for entrepreneurs to become suppliers to the public and thus to enter markets that can lead to international opportunities. So there is potential there. No, Mattias, we do not have the same views on this. We do not have any tax shocks in our overall proposals. I think there is a lot going in the wrong direction. In addition, I think that the debate on what it has looked like in the past is coming back again. Then there is generalization, just as the world looks the same at different times, which it does not. I would like to ask Mattias Jonsson whether there has been a financial crisis in this country and what it has achieved. Is that what your own Minister of Finance said, that they have managed well through this and made their way out on the other side? I also want to hear from Mattias how to do in high- and recessions to stimulate.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1315	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the questions. Of course I have noted that there has been a very deep financial crisis. I am not sure that the kind of tax cuts that were made during that period have been beneficial in a recession and strengthened Sweden's economy or have gained momentum in the way that might have been needed. Nor do I believe that the dismantling of unemployment funds and health insurance has been beneficial for those who have suffered unemployment during the recession or for those who have suffered a disease during the same period. I don't believe in that kind of policy. Instead, I believe that we need to invest in society for a common construction of the country. We need to invest more in education and training in what companies are asking above all today. It is competence for companies to be able to employ and become competitive at a time of vulnerability as a result of globalisation and what it means. I think that this type of investment should take precedence over always responding with reduced taxes, regardless of which issue it is about.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1320	Mr President, I would like to It must be interesting to listen to this and other debates. It is said that tax cuts are not always the solution. No, and tax increases are not always the solution either. The first thing to do is to look at the money you have and ensure that it is used effectively, which we have also been talking about in the past. For me, investment does not mean, first and foremost, raising taxes and believing that there is always a need to take off from the world of entrepreneurs without looking at what opportunities are being created for companies. Do we want companies to remain in the country? What does that mean for large and small companies? There are big companies that have told people. Ericsson in Borås and Findus in my own place is now closing down. Small businesses need incentives. I did not get an answer to my question on public procurement, so I would like an answer to that. I would also like answers to the question of reducing unemployment by 2020. Will it be real? Or will you invest in artificial measures? When it comes to education, the journey from young people stopped rather than helping them to live a life ahead by hiding them behind figures. I don't think that's a way forward. What we are discussing is the entrepreneurial world. Perhaps Mattias Jonsson can answer those questions.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1325	Mr President, I would like to We had a debate in this House 14 days ago on public procurement. What I had believed in, that we would get things right on these issues too, unfortunately, was voted down. This concerned the right to require collective agreements in public procurement. I think it is very important that it is competition on equal terms on the Swedish labour market. This does not create competition on equal terms. It should also be the case for other parties and for entrepreneurs that they recognise the importance of not being outcompeted, but that we have a balance. Then we will be able to compete on a level playing field. Yes, I believe, and I am as determined as the government, that we will be able to bring down unemployment further. It has gone from about 8%, and now it is at 6.7%, according to a report that came today. Sweden has the highest measured employment in the EU at the moment. It is moving in the right direction, but there is still a lot to be done to bring down unemployment. Education does not mean hiding people. I am strongly opposed to this approach. Training is to replenish your skills so that you become employable. It is not to frustrate figures in unemployment statistics, it is to strengthen individuals and allow companies to compete in an international globalised market where competition is fierce.
i-0a7bbd98fe0eaf2f-1330	Mr President, I would like to Last year, the parliamentary rural committee was set up, with all the parties represented. I myself have been privileged to represent the Left Party on the committee. The aim of its work is to bring about a coherent rural policy. The proposal to set up a rural committee came from us in the Left Party, and the government thought it was a good idea. The Committee issued an important interim report in March, which stated: Furthermore, a fragmented, general and short-term policy with a lack of a rural dimension. For me, these are important conclusions that demonstrate the need for a new rural policy. The Rural Committee is now in its absolute final stage. The final report is due in January next year. That is why it has been important for me that the Rural Committee should present as many concrete proposals as possible that make a difference and at the same time be able to agree across party boundaries. At the same time, however, it is important that rural policy is not watered down and becomes a political area that our party leaders do not care about. This has sometimes been the case historically, but now there are quite clear signs of change. Trumps's victory in the United States has frightened many here in Stockholm. They have realised that rural issues must also be on the political agenda in the media. For many of us, it feels like you're finally listening to a criticism that's been around for many years. We see that the city has become the norm in the debate. That is why an even more ideological debate is needed, in which differences of opinion between parties are made clear so that it matters on the day you go and vote. It is clear to the Left that the market does not solve rural challenges. The state therefore needs to take greater responsibility for rural development and not hand over all responsibility for managing age pyramids with more elderly people to individual municipalities. For that, we need municipal equalization systems, which are central to creating conditions for a good welfare that is equal throughout the country. When we leave the market thinking behind, instead of looking at ourselves as customers, we can see ourselves as citizens with rights. One thing that has shown that the market does not solve everything in rural areas is the tough situation that many farmers have had. During the year, I have visited two country merchants myself. One is run by a multi-artist who besides the country store and petrol station has also bought SJ's old sleeping cars, which previously went to Berlin. Today, in the old train compartments, hostels are operated despite the fact that the nearest railway is several miles away. The second grocery store, also mentioned by Mr Mattias, is located in northern Värmland, and I visited it together with a delegation from the Rural Committee. The grocery store is run by a football club. They have found that for the football team to live, the district must also live. And by hiring football players who are both good at playing football and working in the country store, the club has got better spin on the business. That is why I am pleased about last year's decision on operating aid for farmers. We allocated SEK 35 million, which so far has gone to 181 country dealers in Sweden. It should go to traders who offer commercial service in sparsely populated areas with long distances. We know that many traders are particularly important because they also provide other services. This makes them a strategic hub in the area. It is therefore necessary to ensure that they do not have to shut down their activities but are able to maintain their service. The State supports and complements where the logic of the market does not work. Cash disappearing from rural areas is another important issue. During the year, the cash uprising has been heard loudly in the debate. There are a number of organisations with the former governor and chief police officer Björn Eriksson at the head who want us in the Riksdag to take increased responsibility for the big banks not to make it difficult and remove cash from society at a sharp pace. Unfortunately, the government is doing too little and, above all, Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund has not yet done anything in this area. In the bowl of more positive decisions we can see that the government has chosen to relocate two government agencies during the year. This applies to the E-Health Agency, which has been located in Kalmar, and the Swedish Real Estate Authority, which has been located in Karlstad. The new gender equality agency will also be located outside Stockholm thanks to the requirements of the Left Party for new authorities to be located outside Stockholm County. This spring, the Swedish Service Centre will also propose government functions that could be moved from metropolitan regions to other parts of Sweden. It will be an important step to highlight and highlight the role of the state in local labour markets. Flight tax and 3:12 rules, I thought we could have a debate during dinner. That is why I now support the committee's proposal. Now I think we should go eat tacos.
