i-fcf748591f2f85b7-3	Madam President, listeners, interpellants and Members of Parliament! Edward Riedl has asked Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht what the Government intends to do to ease the beach protection in Sweden. The work in the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Swedish beach protection is unique in an international perspective together with the right of public access. Strand protection rules aim to create the conditions for public access to nature experiences and for the conservation of biodiversity in coastal areas. The beach zone is particularly important for biodiversity. At the same time, there are some possibilities in beach protection rules to promote rural development and local decision-making. As I developed at the interpellation debate on 4 February regarding interpellation 2015/ 16:326 by Johan Hultberg, the Moderates, a well-functioning beach protection requires an effective regulatory framework and good application. The Strand Protection Delegation's efforts to carry out and coordinate, in accordance with its mission, an information and knowledge effort on the application of the beach protection rules have played an important role, and the report of the delegation will now be dealt with further in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Several changes to beach protection legislation have taken place in recent years. In particular, the changes from 2009 and 2010 have changed the conditions by moving the decision-making rights to municipalities to a greater extent and adding the exemption for rural development in coastal locations, LIS. In addition, a rule on new possibilities for the abolition of shore protection in small lakes and watercourses came into force as late as 2014. I and the government are closely following the issue of the application and importance of beach protection rules for both the development of society and the preservation of the values that the rules aim to protect.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Beach protection is an issue that engages in many different dimensions, not least because we people like to live in close proximity to water. The dream for many is to live fully or partly in waterfront areas. The main rule of the beach protection rules applies 100 metres. It can be extended to 300 metres if there are special reasons for it. It shall be used only for specific reasons. Unfortunately, there is much to suggest that in various ways there is abuse in the county boards' assessment of the legislation they have to deal with, that is, the legislator's intention was quite different from the way in which the assessments are made on the county boards. It is not reasonable that the political will should not be respected. We have almost one kilometre of beach per square kilometre in Sweden. There is a lot of beach and shoreline in our country. It is not only reasonable for us to build near the beach, but it is also absolutely necessary in many parts of the country for us to continue to expand in terms of accommodation. The county administrative boards have reviewed the extended beach protection. It's done. The work of the Coast Guard delegation is ready and the final report is submitted. A majority in the Swedish Parliament has decided on a clear announcement to the government that it should return with reformed beach protection rules. Madam President, I would like Does the government intend to return to Parliament with a proposal for reformed beach protection rules according to the Riksdag's announcement?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-11	Madam President, I would like Beach protection seems to be an ongoing issue. I suppose that has its explanation in what Edward Riedl mentioned, that people want to live and stay on shores. As the Minister spoke about, it is about both accessibility and biodiversity. These are important things. From the Liberals' side, we can be very clear that we are behind a generally strong beach protection based on the basic aims mentioned here: accessibility and biodiversity. It was also the basis and starting point when we made the changes that took place in 2009 and 2010. The main focus was that we should be able to differentiate the protection of the shore from safety, of course, but also from the degree of exploitation. There could be some opportunities in sparsely populated areas of the country to have easier rules on beach protection. You would then have more opportunity to build near the beach. It was a lot about housing construction and about creating attractive housing throughout the country. The importance of this can always be speculated on. But Edward Riedl mentioned that people want to live near the beach, so we can still conclude that it is an attractive accommodation. What was then a big change was a review of all areas with extended beach protection. There was, of course, also an extension of 300 metres of beach protection in the old legislation. However, during the discussion when the legislation was drawn up, one of the main reasons why it should be reviewed was that it had been done very flat-rate. One could not really justify why it was 300 metres in these particular sections. They had taken whole coastlines or entire lakes straight off. This was the important and main focus in terms of making new decisions on this before 31 December 2014. I would say that the decisions that were then taken were almost as flat-rate as they were before, so that part of the legislation never really had any impact. I do not see that the intentions that existed had any effect. That is one of the things that we must be able to discuss further. The second one that has not had an impact concerns the LIS areas. That right has not been exercised. Why hasn't it been done? It depends on the municipalities, on the legislation and on the application, I would think. But it's still important to see where the catch is. Then we will finally come to what is important. It is a question of application. As the Minister reports in his reply, the Strandskyddsdelegation has looked at it, and it is now being dealt with in the Government Office. That is surely an answer that many ministers in this and previous governments have given. Now there is an announcement that we want these more appropriate beach protection rules and that it feels urgent, so what is happening on this issue now, Minister? What's the next step? From the Liberals' side, we have pointed out how very important this issue is linked precisely to housing construction. Rural areas, housing and application are key words in this context.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-20	Madam President, I would like Thank you for interesting questions about an issue that I often hold in this House and discuss with various Members. As I explained in my reply, there was an interpellation debate just a few weeks ago. I understand, of course, that there is great interest in how we can further stimulate housing construction, not least throughout Sweden. The entire country of Sweden needs to be used. Sweden is a water-rich country. We who live here like to stay close to water, and it is also one of the basics that the beach protection rules have developed in our country. In fact, public access to the coastal zones has been so important. This will be a local conflict if there are some who want to live and cut off these beaches so that a wider public cannot use them. Then, as was also pointed out in the answer, of course, the, as one might think, flat-rate but scientifically based position that precisely the beach zone, between the biological life of the seas and lakes and the biological life of the land, is a very sensitive zone. I would say that general protection and support for the efforts made for biodiversity in that zone is a key to being both cost-effective and effective in terms of the implementation of objectives that are about living lakes, seas and forests in Sweden and a biodiversity on all trails. This contributes effectively to beach protection legislation precisely because the beach zone has these qualities. I have been involved for many years in debates in this House about balances, and the fairly large differences of opinion that exist between parties have so far been well dealt with by discussing what adjustments and steps forward can be taken. These include steps to ensure sufficient space at local level in rural areas to plan for a development that also involves residential development, such as the existence of specific reasons for a decentralised decision on beachfront accommodation. On the contrary, in other parts of the country, for example in metropolitan areas where the public is much larger, it is particularly important to enforce beach protection rules in relation to the public. This is also reflected in the legislation currently in place on rural development and the so-called LIS areas, mentioned by Tysklind. I understand that several county parties are very disappointed at what was achieved with the changes that were made during the last parliamentary term, and I think it is important that we look and really take what is happening in the implementation. The work of the Strandskyddsdelegation was important there, not least in order to disseminate information and equivalence about this throughout Sweden. If you want to safeguard these rules, you should not think that that job is done in a quick turn and something that you can quickly return with as a pamphlet to the Swedish Parliament, because then I just think that the change is getting worse. We have seen that the changes made during the last parliamentary term do not always have the intended effect, and we also see that the rules are quite complex and complex. The government will return and respond to the announcement; the government always does.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-30	Madam President, I would like It is clear that, as the Minister mentioned here in his speech and as I said, beach protection is involved precisely because people like to live and stay in waterfront environments, and that is precisely why we debate these issues very often. It is both about being able to build more parts of our cities and about increasing the attractiveness of rural and small towns, where it could be achieved by opening up more areas near the beaches. The total length of the Swedish mainland coast is just over 386 000 kilometres. It's a little over nine and a half times around the world. This whole distance cannot be as safe as the legislation ultimately asserts when it comes to using the 300-metre rule. You have to be able to build more than you do today. Madam President, I would like The minister follows the question, she says. I mean, the minister should do more. She may breathe it in her second answer in this House, that the government intends to come back in some way. It is perfectly reasonable for the government to do so when there is an announcement. Of course, there is some disappointment from us that the legislation implemented during the alliance period should have led to more. After all, our ambition was to make more settlements available in coastal areas, and then it is clear that that is what we would have liked to see and not a tougher application. My alliance colleague Lars Tysklind understood that some of course also relate to the application of the laws and regulations we have, and it is therefore important that we also follow that part. I ask the question one more time: could the Minister consider doing more than just following the question? I believe that more should be done. Maybe that's what the minister meant, and she'll be happy to say it again.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-35	Madam President, I would like Basically, I do not believe that there are such great differences and differences of opinion about this, and I still think that the legislation that I was involved in drafting in 2008 and which came into force in 2009 is basically good. It was clear in many paragraphs and laid down certain things. It was not about building on beaches and turning off beaches, but it was clear that it was always necessary to have access possibilities, and even though it was a low-exploited area, it was not allowed to use the whole beach. So there is a great deal of good in that legislation, so I think it needs to be better developed. When it comes to the importance of beaches from the point of view of accessibility, and when it comes to biodiversity, we can also be completely united. To lay out 100 meters in general is to make a stencil, but I think it is perfectly reasonable to do so on the basis that it is not possible to assess everything in detail. This can be done on a scientific basis. But when you go up to 300 meters, I think you have to make higher demands on science and that it must be differentiated. One could harden and say that in some places it might be 150, 200, 300 or even 500 meters, but now the legislation says 300 meters. It takes a little more science. The great frustration on the part of the Liberals is rather that the intentions of the legislation have not been realised in the application. It is mainly about the possibility of being able to take advantage of the possibility of living in attractive places close to the beach, not on the beach, of course, but in beachfront locations. That is the frustration that exists, and that is what the whole announcement is about.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-40	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your dedicated contributions on an issue that is under lively discussion! However, I do hear a little nuance from the two debaters here, where especially the interpellation originally made by Edward Riedl to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, where he writes that beach protection categorically inhibits growth and value increase in rural areas, is quite clearly sceptical about what the beach protection rules have for value. It is not to see what that legislation has as its purpose, i.e. to contribute to attractive rural areas, effective work on biodiversity and effective work to make built-up environments attractive. We all feel that more needs to be built in Sweden. I know that there are many reasons why it is being built and not being built. Numerically, how much construction can get started, we note that quite different issues also matter, not least the question of infrastructure. If areas are to be built, the infrastructure developed is also required. Here there is a considerably greater task for the state to ensure it. It is obvious that the beachfront locations are attractive to stay in, to live in and to develop areas in. For that we shall have adequate legislation that takes account of those values. The government is following the question and looking at whether there is reason to make changes, but I think you should be wise and look at whether it is just a matter of regulatory changes or whether there are other types of changes that you need to look at – given the experiences that not least the previous government did. There were certain intentions which largely coincided with the views of the entire Parliament but which could not be realized in a sufficiently clear way, which has led to frustration today. Let me ask you a few questions back to the Moderates. Is it behind the beach protection regulations? If so, what is meant to be protected by the beach shelter? As the interpellation is formulated, there are question marks.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-45	Madam President, I would like The Minister hears hue differences between the Moderates and the Liberals in the debate. It would possibly be an understatement of me to say that there can certainly be some nuances between the two government co-operative parties of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, but perhaps we should leave that debate behind. At least I'd say so. Of course, we support the announcement that a majority of Parliament, including the Moderates, has sent to the government. That is really what this interpellation debate is about, previous interpellation debates have been about and possibly also future interpellation debates on beach protection will be about. What does the government intend to do to comply with what is in the announcement? That is what the debate is about. Thank you for the debate. I have no other opinion than that it is good to make this kind of change in as broad a consensus as possible. Let me ask the Minister my first question again. Does the Minister think that the application of the legislation is working well today or not? If it does not work well, is the Minister prepared to do something about it in accordance with Parliament's announcement?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-48	Madam President, I would like I too would like to thank you for the debate. I repeat my reply that the government will return to Parliament with answers to the announcements that Parliament decides on. We will do so on this issue as well.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-49	Madam President, I would like Lars Hjälmered has asked me whether it is my view and the government's view that hydropower should be handled first in the Energy Commission and then followed by any decisions, or whether the government intends to handle proposals on hydropower unilaterally and alongside the Energy Commission. I would like to begin by stating that hydropower plays a central role in Sweden's electricity supply as a single generation power plant, but also in large and medium-sized power plants such as regulatory and balancing power. Hydropower contributes strongly to a competitive energy system with secure supplies of energy and is crucial for the transition to a fully renewable energy system. The bill announced for the Riksdag is not a targeted proposal on hydroelectric power but is generally about water activities, which is thus much broader. A basis for the announced proposal is the reports of the Water Operations Investigation. This investigation was set up by the previous government, which considered that parts of the current regulation of water activities were outdated and therefore needed to be reviewed. In addition, a central starting point for the proposal is to ensure that Sweden complies with the commitments arising from membership of the European Union. The Energy Commission Directives provide for a review of energy policy covering long-term conditions for the production, transmission, storage and use of energy. The focus of the work is on the conditions for electricity supply after the years 2025 – 2030. Of course, certain energy issues need to be addressed at the same time as the Commission's work is under way, as they concern issues that need to be dealt with before 2025. One such example is the proposal for an extended power reserve that was recently submitted to the Riksdag. The Energy Commission's work is about providing the basis for a broad political agreement on long-term energy policy, with particular emphasis on the future supply of electricity. The role of hydropower in the energy system will, of course, be an essential part of this work.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Energy is crucial for both households and businesses. It is important that these can require a secure supply of electricity. It's important to secure jobs. Historically, we have done well in Sweden. I believe that if Sweden is to continue to be an industrial and entrepreneurial country, we must maintain a secure supply of electricity in the future as well. We can see that there are a number of challenges for Sweden in both the short and a little longer term. There are a number of short-term challenges with regard to Swedish nuclear power. Over time, there are great opportunities, not least with new renewable energy. There is a lot of technological development. We also have to discuss the conditions for investment over time. But hydropower, Madam President, will be a key issue forward in Swedish energy policy. Hydropower is almost to be regarded as a crown jewel in the Swedish energy system. Other countries wish that they have hydro power to the extent that Sweden has had. It provides both basic power and control capability in a cost-effective way. It is a little strange, Madam President, that there has been a debate in Sweden where almost the self-imposed effort has been made to reduce, change and push back hydropower when it has been put between different environmental and social interests. At the same time, we see economic challenges for renewable energy as wind power and economic difficulties for, for example, Swedish nuclear power. Our party is clear that in the region we now find ourselves in, with the challenges that exist, we must do more and more to protect and develop hydropower politically, not when reconsidering, but on the contrary push up the power take-off in Swedish hydropower to ultimately secure entrepreneurship and jobs. For us, it is about looking at what the Maritime and Water Authority can do as the responsible authority in some parts. It is a matter of ensuring that the EU's water requirements are met without randomising important hydropower production. The Swedish Energy Agency can do things to see how the power output can be increased. Then I come to the issue of the Energy Commission. There's a government investigation going on that has to look at what a future energy policy might look like. The Commission will work throughout 2017. At the same time, the government has said that in September there will be a bill on hydropower. It's a key issue. It is therefore reasonable to ask the Minister how hydropower should be handled. We know that the government unilaterally and alongside the Energy Commission last year took a number of energy policy decisions with great impact. For example, the nuclear tax was significantly increased, which had negative effects and has contributed to some of the situation we can see in this area. Should hydropower be handled in or outside the Energy Commission? Madam President, I would like I do not think Ibrahim Baylan was very clear in the answer he just read out. If the government is serious about holding talks between parties and taking a serious discussion and protecting both hydropower and the greatness of the energy system, they should be taken within the Commission. The second question that arises is: What does the government want? What do the Social Democrats and the Green Party want with hydropower? The Moderates are clear that we have to make a number of decisions that make us protect and increase hydropower production. Madam President, I would like In this area too, we do not know what Ibrahim Baylan and the rest of the government think. To round off: Should hydropower be handled in or outside the Energy Commission? What do Ibrahim Baylan and the government want with the important hydropower?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-66	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Helmered, for important issues on an urgent issue, namely energy policy. Let me start with a positive note. I welcome the change of attitude of the Moderates towards Swedish industry. In government moderates had the attitude that industry belonged to yesterday. It was something we had but no longer had. I think the exact quote from the former Prime Minister was: The industry is basically gone. There now seems to be other noises in the bark. I think that's good. I share the view that industry has not only been important for Sweden historically but is also very important for Sweden in the future in terms of both employment and export income for the country. In this context, it is just as Lars Hjälmered says: Energy policy is a very important factor in this, especially when it comes to the basic industry's very high demand for electricity. We know that we are in a very good position today. We have historically low prices and large surpluses of electricity. We had the biggest export of electricity ever last year, Madam President. It was a little over 20 terawa t hours of electricity. But we also know that a great deal is happening in the energy sector. Many positive things happen in terms of innovation and supply of electricity, use of electricity, transmission of electricity and storage of electricity. It offers completely new opportunities but also creates challenges. Some of these challenges are now seen with very low prices and concerns for some of the supply. This applies not least to nuclear power, which Lars Helmered himself referred to. It is against this background that the Government has appointed the Energy Commission. We will jointly sit down and agree on the long-term conditions for the energy sector in Sweden. It's necessary. So far, politics has been filled with conflict. Nevertheless, it has rested in security in the sense that we have had access to the energy we needed. Now there are great changes. That is why we need to provide long-term conditions for the energy sector. Lars Helmered asks two concrete questions, which I will answer as clearly as possible. I thought I already did so in my first post. But it is surely part of the political game in this House to claim that you did not hear the answer. I will repeat it again: Yes, hydropower will of course, as an important part of an energy system, also be handled in the Energy Commission. What, then, is the government's position? Water power is in many ways a blessing to our country, just as Lars Helmered himself highlighted. It is renewable, adjustable and storageable. In a future European system with more wind and solar electricity, hydropower becomes a huge asset. It is precisely because it can regulate much of the weather-dependent electricity. It should be remembered that there are also challenges. It was against this background that the former moderate-led government set up the investigation. The challenge is to ensure that we comply with the EU's water directives and to ensure that this activity also makes efforts to minimise the environmental impact. There has been a great deal of agreement on this in Sweden. For us, it is about managing and finding the balance so that we can continue to develop hydropower, but at the same time we will ensure that we minimise the environmental impact. It is no easy thing to handle either economically or environmentally.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-76	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that it is a clear and well-known message from Ibrahim Baylan: the Energy Commission will start by taking a discussion, and then the government will deal with the other issue. That's why I'm asking the question. We know that the government has said that talks are important. At the same time, proposals have been made, such as a substantial increase in nuclear tax and changes in the electricity certification system alongside the Energy Commission. It may be appropriate to ask: Is the government serious about this type of conversation? That is why I have asked that part of the question. We then go into the important issue. This is really the decision for Swedish households and Swedish companies. I agree with part of what Ibrahim Baylan says about some of the transformations and challenges we can see in the Swedish energy market. These are historically low electricity prices. It's a fairly pressured profitability regardless of the power stroke. Then you have to take political responsibility. The Minister for Energy often says that it is time for parties to think about, take responsibility and talk. I share that view. I mean, it's time for political action. We from the Moderates have been clear with a number of opinions. Why is that important? It is in concrete policy that we can develop Swedish energy policy, secure electricity supply and create more jobs and growing companies. It is in the light of what is to be seen our proposals on Swedish nuclear power. We are talking about further reductions or even the removal of the impact tax, given that we can find responsible funding. This applies, for example, to our communications with alliance colleagues on the electricity grids and the welcome we are trying to make of much of the new technology and renewable energy. But this also applies to hydropower. It is an issue that is in some way both difficult and simple at the same time. It is about the ultimate balance between different environmental and social interests. If you want to make it simple, you can say that on the one hand we have biodiversity and on the other hand we have production and climate. One must politically say: What is most important for Sweden seen in Swedish jobs and entrepreneurship and seen in the Swedish energy system? Looking at the challenges we have in general around Swedish nuclear power and the positive development with more renewable energy becomes increasingly important for me and the Moderates. We must take the consequences of this and say: then production and climate are more important. We cannot have a order in Sweden where we constantly do re-evaluations and push down energy and effect after a re-examination. We take out less of the Swedish hydropower when other countries stand and look at Sweden and say: We wish we had hydropower in the way Sweden has had. We must take political responsibility to legally ensure that we can have a system in which hydropower production can be increased. That must be the immediate conclusion. Madam President, I would like I don't think Ibrahim Baylan got that far in his reasoning. I share the basic view he points to. Hydropower is important. We must seriously analyse the rather difficult legal issues that emerge from this. What I think is essential is to get to the idea of principle. We cannot meet all environmental and social objectives at the same time. Madam President, I would like We also know that there has historically been a conflict between S and MP in the view of hydropower. The Green Party has previously had proposals for both increased taxes on hydroelectric power and for new and re-evaluated all existing permits, a view that I have not felt the Social Democrats had. It would be interesting to hear the Minister develop this a little. Should you reconsider and re-examine all permits? Does he share the view that the Green Party has previously had to further increase hydro-energy taxation? How should one judge between different environmental and social interests? What's more important, Ibrahim Baylan? Is it production and climate, or is it biodiversity?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-87	Madam President, I would like I think anyone listening to the debate may be somewhat surprised. To be honest, the difference between today's two debaters or, for that matter, between the government and the opposition is not very great. Nevertheless, it is part of the role of the opposition. I myself have been eight years in opposition in this House. I know that it is part of the opposition's role to try to show differences of opinion and conflicts with the government. However, this issue is very ill-suited to conflicts. This is precisely because it is quite acute, not least for the reasons that Lars Helmered explains. It is also a fundamental factor for the whole of our community. We don't think about it very often. We are rightly counting on it to just work. We have electricity in our walls, our lights shine and our water is warm when we need it, most of the time. The same applies to industry. One of the main reasons is precisely that over the years we have benefited from hydroelectric power, but we must not turn a blind eye to the fact that it has also had consequences. This balancing act, in particular, is now an important part of the Commission's work. Lars Helmered is trying to show some kind of gulf between the two parties of the government. The fact that there are two different parties is not news. If I were focused on conflict, I could counter by asking what it looks like between the Center Party and the Moderates on this issue. It is no coincidence that the previous government did not make any progress on this issue. There are differences of opinion between the parties. That's the way it is. Nevertheless, we must overcome these differences of opinion and find common denominators. Although our energy system today works perfectly well, it will not do so forever. We need to find common positions on both hydroelectric power and the rest of the energy sector, on both supply and transmission and use, as well as on the market side, so that we can create long-term conditions for the necessary investments in our energy system, whether it is hydropower or other types of power. That is the challenge. That is why we have the Commission. I look forward to having a proper discussion, although I am fully aware of the difficulties. Anyone who has followed the energy debate knows that it has been characterised by locks, both within the blocks and between the blocks. But the time has now come for us to try to overcome this, for now it is serious. The government has one and the same view on the matter, namely that we should make a proper effort to create these very long-term conditions. What does this mean for hydropower? The challenge of hydropower is, I would say, not mainly the conflict in this House, but the challenge – and the main reason why we can discuss this issue – is the EU's water directive, which Sweden as a member of the European Union must implement. It was against this background that the previous government set up the investigation that we now have to deal with. That's the way it is. Some are simple, others are legally very complicated, just as Lars Helmered himself points out. We need to get this out of the way. We will do our utmost to safeguard hydropower, and if it is consistent with our other environmental objectives, not least biodiversity, we will also develop it. But I'll end by asking you a question. I don't think Lars Hjälmered really means that we should go after the undeveloped rivers that exist in Sweden, but for safety's sake I ask: Is this what you mean, or is it the already expanded rivers we are talking about?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-96	Madam President, I would like Let us begin with this question. No, of course it's not about the four unbuilt Norrland rivers. What we are going to take into account in this debate is that we in Sweden have had a discussion where we have said that we ourselves will reduce hydropower production. Otherwise, it is a market mechanism with low electricity prices and a high level of taxation on the part of the government that destroys the energy companies, but here it is said that it wants to reduce self-imposed. That's what I'm turning against. The conclusion must be that, in order to secure jobs and companies in Sweden, we must protect hydropower. The simple question, where the parties have to land, is the question of principle. It is about weighing environmental and social interests against each other. Then the difficult legal issues will be dealt with in this. Ibrahim Baylan says that this House is sometimes about conflicts and finding differences. It may be, but it is also a question of demanding information. Ibrahim Baylan belongs to the government, which governs the kingdom. I think we can demand more from him and the government in terms of concrete information. What do they want to do specifically to protect and develop hydropower? I agree with what Ibrahim Baylan says that we should consider and analyse and that it is important to protect. From our party we have put forward a concrete list of a number of missions we think the authorities should have and a number of decisions could be made to take a few steps along this road. I still lack information from the government parties in this, and that is what I would like. Nevertheless, there is a good hope for the Minister, and I also hope that he will sign a firm not only for his own party but also for co-regulating with the Green Party. We know that there has been a great splicing in the view of hydropower which is actually worrying.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-101	Madam President, I would like I would just like to inform the honourable Member that when the Minister answers interpellations or questions in Parliament, they always do so for the whole government. There is no room for personal opinion in this House. Basically, I think we have a common vision. I also believe that there is a broad consensus on it in the Swedish Parliament. In the energy system we see emerging not only in Sweden but throughout Europe, hydropower is a very important asset. Then we have some tricky legal issues to deal with when it comes to how to apply the EU's water directives in a way that allows us to continue to have both good environmental management and a withdrawal of electricity from hydropower. The principle is simple, but it is important to find the legal ways forward. So far there has not been much guidance. It is only now that judgments are beginning to come in Europe that can be a guide. I think this is a good thing when we are now going to sit down in the Energy Commission and see what is possible to do. Let me conclude by saying that, although it may seem to anyone listening to the debate that there is a conflict, I would like to assure you that, precisely in view of hydropower, I do not think it does. Hydropower is in many ways an asset for our country today, and that is, I believe, both our hope and that of the opposition that it will continue to be so in the future. Unfortunately, however, that is not enough; we will also have to look at other parts of the energy system. That's why the government has very proactively appointed an Energy Commission. I look forward to tough but also good talks with the Commission to find ways forward, so that our energy sector, our industry and our households can have long-term prospects and access to electricity at competitive prices, preferably as sustainable as possible.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-105	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me if there is work going on at the Ministry of Finance on changes in housing taxation and my view on how a tax exchange between the capital gains tax and the interest rebates would affect public finances and households' finances. The government has made the biggest housing policy efforts in 20 years and will continue to take strong action. Long-term rules of the housing market are important. The government has therefore launched broad political discussions on housing policy with the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party. Several parties raised tax issues in the first talks, and I look forward to discussing these issues further with the Moderates in the context of housing policy talks.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-108	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Finance for his contribution to the debate, but at the same time I note that she is not even close to answering the questions I am asking. Ibrahim Baylan just stood in the speaker's seat and said that there is no room to speak for anything other than the whole government if you are a minister. It highlights the background to this interpellation with the Minister of Finance. The Minister for Housing has stated that he intends to abolish the interest rebates in favour of the abolition of capital gains taxation. Furthermore, the Minister for Housing has said that there is work going on at the Ministry of Finance, that is, the Department of Magdalena Andersson, with precisely this. Now that we have heard the Minister for Energy inculcate that one minister can only speak for the whole government, it would have been appropriate for the Minister of Finance to clarify what is the government's view on these issues. Madam President, I would like Of course, it is easy to be a government and say that there are talks going on: We have coffee and discuss! But outside meetings and Commissions there is a reality that is often very dramatic and that needs to be addressed here and now. As a government, you have a responsibility to deal with it. Madam President, I would like The housing market risks causing enormous damage to the economy if it is not properly managed. In the near future we have seen it in the USA, Holland and Denmark, and we have also seen it in the Swedish economy in the early 90s. The housing market is a very sensitive part of the economy. In simplicity, it works something like this: Prices of housing can fall slightly. Then people get worried and raise their savings. Then consumption will fall in the economy and unemployment will rise. As unemployment rises, more people need to sell their homes, while fewer people can buy them. Then house prices fall. Then saving will increase, then consumption will fall and unemployment will rise. Then you're in an evil spiral. Here, the Minister for Housing has given strong information that affects financial stability and the housing market. And there will be no clarification from the Minister of Finance as to what actually applies. If the Minister of Housing's statement were to apply, this would mean that households with a right of residence would face increased monthly costs of approximately SEK 2 000 to SEK 4 000. Furthermore, if we were to believe in the Minister for Housing's reply, it would mean that this would be set off against a reduction or abolition of profit tax, which would redistribute very large financial resources from all working families to a small few, many times wealthy elderly people, who have owned their homes for a very long time. It would probably be one of the largest transfers of wealth that we have ever seen carried out in the Swedish tax system. When the Minister of Finance is now asked straight questions about this, the Minister of Finance cannot give a reply, but instead refers to cross-block talks. It would therefore be desirable to have a clear statement from the Minister of Finance as to whether or not this is appropriate. What is the government's initial value in these talks? Is this relevant or not? Did the housing minister speak only for himself, or did the housing minister speak for the government? Does the government have a different view? This needs to be made clear. Madam President, I would like These are difficult times when it comes to your different answers from the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen, when the Deputy Prime Minister is not Deputy Prime Minister, when another Minister, Ylva Johansson, has some kind of overall responsibility in the government, when the Minister for Housing speaks on the questions of the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Finance does not give clear information on what applies – at the same time as we risk moving towards a very dramatic development.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-116	Madam President, I would like I would like to make a point about what Ibrahim Baylan said in this House. It is not unusual for ministers to express opinions. I would like to remind you that when Niklas Wykman worked in the Government Office and we had an alliance government, we had a Deputy Prime Minister who wanted to join NATO and a Prime Minister who did not want to join NATO. It was a clear difference of opinion between Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister on a very fundamental issue for national security. We also had a school minister who wanted to nationalize the school and a prime minister who did not want to nationalize the school. We had a Minister of Social Affairs who wanted to nationalize health care and a Prime Minister who did not want to do so. There were clear differences of opinion in the government when Niklas Wykman worked in the Government Office. As far as the government's policy on interest rebates is concerned, we have been clear that we do not have any proposals to change interest rebates. But we have also been very clear that if household indebtedness continues to develop in a worrying way and house prices develop in such a way that it is not sustainable, then it cannot be excluded that we need to take further action. The former government has taken important steps in the form of raising capital adequacy requirements for banks and the mortgage ceiling for households. We have then moved on with amortisation requirements, and we have done so in a good cooperation across the block border. Then, of course, we must continue to monitor developments and see if further action is needed, but the government does not have such proposals. However, several parties in the talks have made it clear that they want us to look at the interest rebates. Then, of course, we will have to discuss it with the parties who have raised it. We are of course allowed to analyse the proposals, and we are continuously analysing the kind of proposals presented in the Riksdag at the Ministry of Finance. For example, Niklas Wykman's party colleague Fredrik Schulte has made it clear that he thinks that the interest rebates should be abolished and the tax reduced in other ways, and of course we also analyse this type of proposal from parts of the Moderates. I have been clear about my entry point, and that is that I will not stand for anything that involves any dramatic changes in household finances. It is important that households feel calm and secure when they make such a big and important investment as buying a house. Any changes must be made in a very responsible manner.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-122	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to understand why Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson is so afraid to put the cards on the table and discuss these issues openly with the Swedish people, so that even people at home at the kitchen tables can discuss, consider and participate widely in a social discussion and so that professional actors and assessors can review, evaluate and come with a feed back on the government's proposal. That all discussions and discussions should take place behind closed doors is bad for the development of society and, I think, to some extent undemocratic. It would be better if a government could clearly state what it is actually intended to do, what it intends to do, than a government that says: We listen to everything and analyse everything, but we do nothing. It is not so important, Madam President, to listen if you do nothing. We are facing a very problematic situation in the housing market. We know that Sweden invested significantly less in housing from the mid-1990s until about now than the OECD countries did. Magdalena Andersson's party colleagues and the Ministry of Finance have taken the blame for the 90s crisis that erupted after the very irresponsible economic policy that the Social Democrats conducted for many years. Among other things, there were very large over-investments in housing relative to population development. Now, Madam President, we have a strong population development. But for known reasons, the increased population has little or almost no ability to pay at all at the moment. We have newly arrived Swedes who are far, often very far away from the labour market and their own livelihoods. It is, of course, problematic, Madam President, to build for this group that cannot pay. Of course, all people need housing, but from a stability point of view, you obviously add risk to the economy when you need to make huge investments for which there is no payment coverage. This raises difficult questions about how the Minister of Finance views this. How can the Minister of Finance ensure financial stability? How can the Minister of Finance ensure that people who come to Sweden get somewhere to live? Madam President, I would like Nowhere is there any news. It should be discussed, there should be coffee and it should be talked to individual parties. But the Minister of Finance does not in any way want to give an indication of his own position or direction. As an external actor, one cannot interpret it in any other way than what appears to be the answer to most of the Swedish politics right now, that the government parties simply do not agree. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have completely different views on things and try to deal with it in different Commissions. But they talk around, about and next to each other instead of giving some kind of information to the Swedish people about how to deal with this big problem, how to take measures that create stability, order and order and that ensure that we do not suffer from crises in the housing market or, for that matter, financial crises in general. We hear the Riksbank representing Sweden with a certain opinion sometimes and Finansinspektionen with another sometimes. We hear ministers speaking on completely different issues. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Finance mentions that you think different things, and it is quite obvious that this is the case. Between parties and within parties, of course, we all have different views. This is partly because one is committed. But it will be another matter, Madam President, when you, as a minister of state, put yourself in a radio interview and express what you think. Then you have not defined what you personally think but what the government thinks. It is unfortunate that the Minister for Finance cannot give a clear statement that what the Minister for Housing said simply does not apply.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-130	Madam President, I would like Those who listened to Magdalena Andersson's speech here may have noticed a wording that she used. She said: We have no proposal to remove the interest rebates. This is a wording that I have noted earlier from the Minister for Finance. Why is this wording so interesting? Because Magdalena Andersson repeatedly said during the election campaign: I will not remove RUT and ROT. I'm not going to raise taxes for ordinary people. I'm not going to raise the gas tax. I'm not going to remove the surplus target. Then she became Minister of Finance. Quite quickly I'm not going to do that. We don't have any concrete proposals. When asked if she would touch RUT and ROT, she said: I have no concrete proposals to touch RUT and ROT. When she was asked to raise taxes for ordinary people, she said: No, I have no suggestions to raise taxes for ordinary people. When asked about the petrol tax, she said: No, I have no suggestions to increase the petrol tax. When she was asked about the surplus target, she said: No, I have no proposals to change the surplus target. A few months later, the proposals came forward. She's going to halve the roof of the RUT and lower the ROT sharply. She will increase the tax for more than 1 million mainly regular income earners. She's going to raise the gas tax, and she's going to remove the surplus target. There is something cyclical in the way the Minister of Finance expresses himself. She's going from, uh, I'm not going to go to, uh, I don't have any suggestions and I'm going to put concrete proposals on Parliament's table. To return to what Niklas Wykman was talking about: when it comes to such an important issue as removing interest rebates – something that would hit many households hard if it was not done in a balanced way – there is a great need for an open and honest political debate on what it is you want to achieve. This has been systematically demonstrated by the Minister of Finance that she does not do so, but she will somehow play and politicise the debate on the substance of the proposals. She does not express clearly where she stands, what she thinks and what she wants, but right what it is, the proposals are only on Parliament's table. It will be fait accompli for the Swedish people. It is particularly serious from a democratic perspective if, before an election movement, you say what you should and should not do and then after the election movement do the opposite. It's problematic. It would therefore be desirable for the Minister of Finance to be able to stand in Parliament's pulpit or at a press conference and to state clearly what she wants on this central issue. In a previous speech, the Finance Minister referred to the fact that I have spoken in the media and put forward motions that I consider the interest rebates problematic, as I do. But what the government is suggesting about how to handle interest rebates is even more problematic. Basically, most of the problems with interest rebates are recognised, but it does not mean that they can be removed anyway. I have received a report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service which states that removing interest deductions is nine out of ten of those affected by families with children. They're very common people. To do so, as the Minister for Finance proposes, to increase the tax rate for ordinary people and lower it for the richest, is problematic. Could we have a word, Minister of Finance?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-141	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte says that abolishing interest rebates would have enormous consequences. That is quite correct. That is why we will be very clear in all the discussions that are taking place in terms of protecting and taking into account the economy of ordinary families. We do not want to propose anything that would remove the carpet from household finances. I have made that clear all the way, and that applies, of course, in all situations. I certainly do not want to do anything about the interest rebates, but it cannot be ruled out that one should end up in a situation where it is necessary to do something to safeguard financial and macro-economic stability. However, it is important to safeguard households' finances in all situations. This is true when discussing interest rebates, but also when discussing rent setting. Here, there are some parties that want to quickly make changes in renting that would put ordinary families' finances at risk. It's not something I'm interested in. The government is not sitting still in the boat when it comes to housing policy just because we are talking about housing. On the contrary, the government has launched the largest housing policy effort of 20 years in the form of investment aid, incentives for municipalities, rehabilitation aid and additional support to bring about more retirement homes. We run and implement important policies to bring up housing. There was someone who said that we did not have any concrete proposals, but last time we had housing policy talks we discussed five concrete proposals that the government has put on the table.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-146	Madam President, I would like Let me tell those who are watching the rhetorical trick of fighting a strawman. We just saw the Minister of Finance doing this. The Minister for Finance is getting clear questions from me about what she intends to do for financial stability, to curb household indebtedness and to ensure stable conditions for household finances in a situation where Minister Kaplan has given draconian answers. Instead of responding to this, the Minister for Finance points out that there are parties, who are unclear who want to remove rental regulations, let rents go and introduce market rents, which she strongly opposes. The Minister for Finance's contribution to the debate can be summed up in this way. She is therefore raising an issue where at least the Moderates have no proposals, and I am not aware that there would be a wide-ranging discussion at all. As the Minister for Finance does not want to answer the substance of the matter, she is instead discussing another question in which she pretends that a political opponent exists which in fact does not exist. The Minister of Finance says that the government has been extremely clear that the interest rebates should not be abolished and that it does not intend to reduce the capital gains tax. The extremely clear government has answered the question of whether this should be done: It is absolutely necessary to get the migration chains going. It should be done as a whole with a tax shift. Thus, when the Minister for Finance says that the government has been extremely clear that the interest rebates should not be removed and that the profit tax should not be reduced, Minister Mehmet Kaplan answers that it is absolutely necessary. There is a big difference between saying, on the one hand, that you have been very clear that nothing should be done and, on the other hand, saying that it is absolutely necessary for it to be done. It is therefore about issues that are extremely important for Swedish jobs, Swedish growth and Swedish financial stability. It is not sustainable for a government to give such contradictory answers.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-154	Madam President, I would like I would say that it is even worse than what Niklas Wykman just said. Just four minutes ago, we heard the Minister for Finance say: I want to be very clear that we do not want to touch on the interest rebates, but we may have to. In the same sense, she is very clear at first that she should not change the interest rate deduction but then says in the side line that she may have to. Madam President, I would like Can't the Minister of Finance, if she thinks she needs to touch on the interest rebates, go up in Parliament's pulpit and describe how? The question of how is very relevant. My childhood friend Anders is an electrician and lives with her girlfriend Jenny who is a nurse. We were counting on what the removal of interest rebates would mean for them. That would hit the household fund with $1,000 a month. If we add on top of that the amortisation requirement, which we largely agree with the government, must be implemented, it is about 3 000 – 4 000 SEK a month. This will hit consumption. These aren't high-income people. They're an electrician and a nurse. The issue thus has great bearing and relevance to the household economy of many people. If the financier must touch the interest rebates, she can explain, please, in the speaker's chair, at a press conference or in a debate article how she intends to do so. The only hint we have received is that Mehmet Kaplan wants to do this by reducing capital tax. This means that all those who have a lot of money on the stock exchange and have made big profits will have strong tax cuts. In that case, there will be a huge transfer of wealth from ordinary people to stock exchange sharks. Please, Minister of Finance! If you have to touch the interest rebates, explain how you want to do it!
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-161	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to listen to Fredrik Schulte, who had counted on his good friends. In the past, he has said that it would affect ordinary families if one did something about the interest rebates. Fredrik Schulte himself has proposed to the Riksdag that interest deductions should be abolished, but that the compensatory tax reductions to be made should be directed specifically at high-income earners. I will read from Fredrik Schultes's motion: You claim that in the exercise, Fredrik Schulte. Then you write, "That's why the same compensatory tax cuts must also be directed specifically at high-income earners." ..................................................... Fredrik Schulte proposes that the tax cuts be directed towards high-income earners. At least that's what he thought when he submitted the motion, which was, by the way, during this parliamentary year. It is important that we ensure that housing is built up. Niklas Wykman is concerned about a housing bubble and financial risks in the form of such a bubble. The most important thing to ensure a well-functioning housing market is that there is a supply that meets demand. The increase in prices and hence the increase in debt that we have seen in the Stockholm area and other metropolitan areas in recent years are worrying. The reason for this is, above all, that increased demand is not met by an increase in supply. It is also a question of the former government – the alliance government – abolishing property tax, which pushed up prices. We also see that the lower interest rates play a role in increasing indebtedness, but also that many rental apartments have been converted into residential units. This has led to an increase in overall debt. Now it is a matter of making sure that we get to grips with this. Above all, it is about bringing up housing, but it is also about securing financial stability in other ways. Among other things, we have done so by introducing an amortisation requirement.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-167	Madam President, I would like In the light of an article in Dagens Industri, Niklas Wykman has asked me how the losses of state-owned companies affect public finances. The article refers to a compilation TT made of the results 2015 for 21 of the largest state-owned companies. The state owns about fifty companies, most of which are profitable, but a number of larger companies that previously generated profits face major challenges. In most cases, the companies that generate profits also pay dividends to the State. The government takes this into account in its forecasts. Income from central government shares amounted to SEK 19 billion in 2015. The average income for the previous ten years, i.e. 2005– 2014, was SEK 18 billion. Dividend income is based on the companies' profit in the previous year, i.e. the revenue from central government shares in 2016 is based on the companies' profit in 2015. In the Government's latest estimate, which was presented in the budget bill for 2016, revenue from central government shares was forecasted to SEK 14 billion in 2016. Public finances and financial savings are defined in accordance with the accounting principles applicable to national accounts. Only the part of a company's dividend that fits within profit for calculating dividends contributes to financial savings. Extra dividends in the form of dividends exceeding the earnings of a company do not improve public finances according to national accounts. Furthermore, losses only affect financial savings if capital injections to cover operating losses are taken as an extension. However, it is the companies' own capital that is primarily loss-bearing. Thus, depreciation of assets of state-owned companies affects financial savings only in so far as they are related to the absence of dividends.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-171	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance has been repeatedly criticised for how she manages public finances. It has been about the Fiscal Council, which has used very strong words and said that the government is completely in breach of the fiscal framework. It has been about the main assessors, which refer to trixing, darkening and tampering with annual saloons back and forth. This indicates in various ways that the government has lost or is losing its grip on public finances. It is very embarrassing for a small, open economy like the Swedish one. It is also very embarrassing for a weak government, like the one sitting, because it inherited the EU's strongest public finances. In 2014 no country in the European Union was better equipped for sovereign debt than Sweden. Since then, a great deal has happened, and the question marks surrounding the management of public finances have gradually grown. Despite the high pressure on the economy and the output gap closing over the years ahead, we can see how deficits are predicted to increase for the future, for example according to the European Commission's forecasts. A government that is losing its grip and control of public finances is very serious. In the past, the Minister of Finance has been criticized for the odd thing about public finances. Here, Madam President, one cannot help but think that the Finance Minister is making a further effort by trying to pretend that the performance of state-owned companies does not affect public finances. When a wholly owned state-owned company like Vattenfall writes down its assets by 19 billion in a year, it obviously affects how the Swedish economy works, how Swedish public finances are doing and how the government has the ability to navigate in the future. If you do not see this, I think it is very difficult to take overall responsibility for how public finances are to be managed. The Minister of Finance refers to the fact that the state companies generated approximately the same amount of revenue the previous year as they did on a ten-year average. This is worrying – not reassuring as the Minister for Finance put it – because in the last ten years we have had the biggest crisis in the world economy since the depression. Last year was a very strong year for the Swedish economy, and yet we are not fully achieving the results that we should be able to achieve. It is worrying when a finance department looks so lightly at the huge losses that are now taking place. Why, for example, do these large losses occur for hydroelectric power? This is partly due to a political crisis injected by the government. They have had to write down the value of nuclear power supplies because the government has increased taxes on power and is generally pursuing a policy that means that Swedish nuclear power can no longer be operated and thus become worthless. This money has been squandered by political decisions itself. The second reason is former Social Democratic governments in which Magdalena Andersson was active and which carried out very large purchasing rounds on the continent. It was about that the governments in which Magdalena Andersson was active involved a lot of German nuclear power and German and Polish coal power, which together now burden Vattenfall very much and thus lead to large depreciation. Sooner or later, this will hit public finances because Vattenfall needs additional funding but definitely also because Vattenfall cannot deliver the dividends it has previously made. Madam President, I would like In view of how we now see this affecting public finances, I wonder how the Minister of Finance views the acquisition of these assets by former Social Democratic governments, which are now in danger of putting a very heavy burden on public finances. Was it prudent for these governments to act on German nuclear power and Polish coal power?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-180	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman claims that I take lightly the finances of state-owned companies. I have to ask Niklas Wykman where he got it from and how he got that impression. On the other hand, in a situation where electricity prices and raw materials prices, including mineral prices, are low, the two large state-owned companies operating in these sectors are affected: Vattenfall and LKAB. In addition, as we know, Vattenfall has write-downs due to some purchases, and this is not just about coal but also about gas. We have previously seen large write-downs due to the purchase of a certain company called Nuon, which was bought up during the time when Niklas Wykman worked at the Ministry of Finance. I think he worked there during Nuon time, if I remember correctly. You'll have to correct me if I'm wrong, Niklas Wykman. It is important that when we calculate public finances we take up any reduction in dividends. This is exactly why we have written down the forecast for dividends for 2016 to SEK 14 billion.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-184	Madam President, I would like It is not only my personal view that the government is taking too lightly the management of public finances. For example, the Council of Finance Ministers has said that it feels that the government and the Minister for Finance are breaching the fiscal framework. The Council therefore shares the view that the government does not manage public finances in the manner in which it is intended. The Financial Control Agency has repeatedly announced that it believes that the expenditure that is now coming is much greater than what the government estimates them to be, i.e. that there is a spending pressure that is greater than the government itself estimates. This is what the Swedish Financial Control Agency says, which one can assume has relatively good reasons for its assessment. However, it is not only on the expenditure side that one can be concerned that the government is making overly optimistic forecasts and assessments. For example, overall leading economists estimate that the tax increases made by the government will not give the revenue that the government says they should give. Magdalena Andersson asked me why we think it is that the government is taking public finances too lightly. It is based, the Minister for Finance, on the Council of Finance Ministers saying that you are breaking the rules, that the Board of Financial Control says that you underestimate expenditure increases and that the leading economists say that you overestimate revenue increases. All in all, it gives good reason to ask whether the government is taking public finances seriously. The Minister of Finance refers here to a purchase made by Vattenfall. Former Social Democratic governments acquired, among other things, Brunsbüttel, Krümmel, Stade, Brokdorf and a variety of nuclear and coal power plants across the European continent, which are now causing severe problems to Vattenfall. I understand that you might want to refer to another event in a purely rhetorical way. But it is not so credible over time when it is really to be discussed to refer to an event when there are 20 other events that are now the current problems. The write-downs that Vattenfall is now being forced to make are due to this government and former Social Democratic governments. This needs to be taken into account when discussing the issue in a serious way. Madam President, I would like I noted that the Minister of Finance did not comment on whether, in the light of the situation now emerging for public finances, she considered it wise for former Social Democratic governments to acquire so much German nuclear power, German coal power and Polish lignite power. Was this something that was good for public finances, and what risk is it now putting Sweden in? On that question, Magdalena Andersson is guilty of the answer.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-191	Madam President, I would like Sweden is entering a clear boom. That is very positive. This is positive for the Swedish economy, and it is positive for households. People get into work, they have more money in their wallets and so on. As an alliance politician, I think it is a statement of strength for the nine budgets that have ruled Sweden over the past nine years – alliance budgets. It was only a few months ago that Magdalena Andersson started to get her policy through. But, Madam President, there are major problems that will not be revealed today, not tomorrow, not next week, but in three to four years' time when the next recession comes. That's it, after a boom comes a recession. There are three main points. First of all, we will have a clear employment dip of about half a percent per year after 2018. It is mainly about the fact that the many people who have applied for asylum in Sweden will start to come out on the Swedish labour market. We also know that Sweden is the world's lowest at getting new arrivals into the labour market. So we will have a growing problem in two, three or four years' time. We now have a situation where we are entering a boom with a negative interest rate. It is not something I want to blame the Riksbank for in any way. They are only responsible for safeguarding price stability. However, it sends a very clear political signal that we must ensure that we have very strong fiscal muscle when the next recession comes. Then I come to the most important concern in all of this, and that is what Mr Wykman has mentioned here a couple of times, namely that we see an increase in the deficit in the state economy despite the fact that we have a boom. Having a deficit policy in a boom can only lead to one of two things. If you don't save in good times, you can't stimulate in bad times. Then you have to increase public debt strongly in bad times. It is precisely this type of hangover that the Minister of Finance is planting into the Swedish economy. In three four years, when the next recession comes, the Swedish economy will not have the muscles to parry this recession. It may even be that the next recession is triggered by a housing bubble, perhaps as a result of the mismanagement of interest deductions by the Minister of Finance and the Government. We discussed this a few minutes ago. On top of this, we have a situation in which state-owned companies start delivering deficits. Something that is important to note is that the state companies sometimes pay dividends that contribute positively to the Swedish treasury, and sometimes the opposite happens. But what is interesting is that we are now seeing deficits in state-owned companies despite the fact that these are good economic times. The problems the Minister of Finance is coping with, and it will eventually affect the Swedish economy – not today, not tomorrow, but in three four years – when the recession comes. The fact that the Minister of Finance does not even want to give a clear indication of how poor dividends from state-owned companies will affect surpluses shows that public finances have been completely out of control.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-200	Madam President, I would like We have given a clear message. In the budget bill, we revised the forecast for revenue from dividends from state-owned companies. They are downgraded to SEK 14 billion for this year. It is SEK 5 billion below the dividends we received for 2015. We took over after eight years of alliance governments, when surpluses turned into government deficits. Every year with an alliance government, public finances deteriorated. The fact that it happened during the financial crisis itself is no wonder. It is a right and reasonable policy, although I think the policy mix would have been different. But at the end of the last parliamentary term, continuing to reduce taxes, mostly for those who earn the most, with borrowed money in an improved economic situation, was not a responsible way of managing public finances. Since then, we have shifted fiscal policy in a more responsible direction and have also managed to reduce deficits and have pursued a very tight policy since we entered the Government Office. It was precisely to have margins when unexpected things happen that it was important to break the constant policy of the alliance government with growing deficits and instead put forward a policy that takes responsibility for public finances. It has to be said that the number of asylum seekers who came to Sweden last autumn was this type of very unexpected event. It was precisely in order to accommodate this type of unexpected event that we ensured that the general government deficit was halved. That is why the deficit is not recovering faster than it would have done in a different situation. Here, of course, it is interesting to hear what the Moderates are going to put forward for politics, if they believe that the tax should be increased very quickly by 30 billion or if you are going to make savings of 30 billion to accommodate this cost.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-204	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance refers to world events and says that this is why public finances are now not recovering as quickly. Of course, Sweden will help to deal with the difficult situation around the world. But it must of course be done in a sustainable and responsible manner that is compatible with financial stability and sustainability of public finances. That is not where I and the Minister for Finance disagree, but where our differences lie in the fact that the Minister for Finance says that public finances are recovering. The European Commission's winter forecast says the opposite, namely that deficits are now rising from 1% to 1.1 – 1.2% over the years to come. If you are to be in balance then there is a lack of about SEK 50 billion in the Treasury. If you are to meet what the Minister of Finance wants to introduce by the back door, a balance requirement, there is a lack of about SEK 100 billion to be close to meeting this over a business cycle. In addition, if you are to reach a surplus target, there is a lack of SEK 150 – 200 billion. It is therefore the case that public finances are not managed. We do not get the life straps and braces needed to face a recession. This is pointed out by the Council of Finance Ministers and, in fact, by all economic and fiscal assessors. The government simply takes the challenge of public finances too lightly. The Minister for Finance says he is pursuing a tight fiscal policy, but what we have seen from this government is a massive expansion of spending. It is not a tight policy when spending is greatly expanded simply because it is at the same time raising taxes a lot for ordinary people with ordinary jobs. That doesn't make any sense. Madam President, I would like I note that my question will probably remain unanswered. The question was: does the Minister of Finance think, in the light of what is now happening in public finances, that it was wise to buy German lignite, German nuclear power and German power at all?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-209	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson tries to put the picture that there were large deficits in Swedish public finances at the end of the previous alliance government's government period, because we lowered the tax. She's trying to put the picture that her alternative would have been holding the money. Now it's not really like that. To 93 percent, I think, we fully agreed on how much money you would stimulate the Swedish economy with. It is therefore a little bit on the margin that the state's budget balance would have been different if Magdalena Andersson had been Minister of Finance in 2010– 2014. We wanted to reduce taxes; instead, she wanted to increase contributions. In essence, however, we agreed on the state's budget balance. So it is a directly incorrect description we get from the Minister for Finance. Another thing the Minister of Finance says is also directly wrong. She's standing here in the speaker's chair, beating her chest and saying... and she's done that a couple of times over the past few months... that she's halved the budget deficit. No, Magdalena Andersson, you haven't! Your budget for 2015 did not go through in the Swedish parliament. It was the alliance budget that went through in the Swedish parliament for 2015, and that was the one that halved the budget deficit. No, Minister of Finance, you haven't halved a budget deficit! The only thing you have done is that you have presented a budget for 2016 that increases the deficits in relation to what we had set out in the 2015 budget. On top of that, you act as if the surplus target no longer exists. But it does – and you are breaking it, Minister of Finance!
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-213	Madam President, I would like I do not get a single answer from Niklas Wykman and Fredrik Schulte to the question of how they think migration costs should be financed. They say I don't fund them, and they say they should be financed. They are concerned about public finances. But they do not have a single proposal as to how they want to reduce expenditure or increase taxes to finance it to the tune of 30 billion. Niklas Wykman says that we are not in favour of a tight policy. The truth is that deficits have been halved. I think the vast majority would argue that halved deficits are a tight policy – and above all a major shift from the time when Niklas Wykman was in the Ministry of Finance borrowing for new, large tax cuts. It was mostly for those who made the most money. With regard to the halving of deficits, I would like to point out that the budget we presented, where the alliance movement then followed our framework, meant halved deficits. We then tabled an additional amending budget early in the spring, and it was decided in Parliament. In it too, we implemented a very tight and responsible economic policy, as well as in the budget proposal that was put on Parliament's table last autumn. Overall, this has meant that we have tightened up public finances, and despite the increased costs we have for migration, we do not get close to the deficits that existed when Niklas Wykman was at the Ministry of Finance.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-217	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me what taxes I think constitute the biggest revenge on Swedish growth today and whether I am prepared to consider reductions in these taxes. The main objective of tax policy is to finance the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure. At the same time, we want a tax system that creates the conditions for sustainable growth and a high level of employment, which has clear environmental governance and which is reliable in terms of distribution policy. Tax changes must take into account the effects of taxes and the positive effects of taxes. For example, it is possible that a change in taxation that would, according to assessors, inhibit growth is used for something that is conducive to growth. An overall good policy is therefore to levy taxes in a good way and to make good use of tax money. Many countries with high tax rates also have high growth rates. I have said before that a broader review of the tax system would be useful. In such a review, I am prepared to consider all ideas on how best to design the tax system.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-221	Madam President, I would like This is quite a big question. What taxes are bad for the economy, and what taxes are perfectly okay for the economy in the sense that they do not destroy jobs and growth? We want more taxes that do not destroy the economy and less taxes that destroy the economy. I listened to Ekot's Saturday interview with Magdalena Andersson. There she said that she would like to work to change the Swedish tax system so that we get more of the less harmful taxes and less of the harmful taxes. It is against this background that I have asked the question. What taxes does the Minister of Finance consider harmful to the economy, and what taxes does she consider to be not so dangerous? This is an issue that occupies a large proportion of tax researchers and economists. They're just looking at the taxes that hamper the economy. The OECD has done several so-called meta-studies where they look at what economists say – what is the big common thread in tax research? What taxes are the most harmful? There are three main points. Firstly, it is about corporation tax. High corporate taxes mean that foreign investors do not want to come to Sweden and invest, which is something that hits the particularly profitable companies. Secondly, it highlights high marginal taxes, which means that the tax is very high on the last krona earned. This, in turn, makes you wonder if, for example, a doctor who has a relatively good income will want to work an extra hour in the emergency room or whether he will feel that the marginal tax on the last hundred bucks earned is so high that it is not worthwhile but better to go home and watch TV and play with the children. Thirdly, we are talking about income taxes for ordinary people. If you have too high income taxes for ordinary people who work at the same time as you have very high contributions, it will cause people to get stuck in exclusion. These are the three types of taxes that research is very clear about the need to avoid being too high. Rather, it is better to have higher taxes on other things, such as those that are harmful to the environment — or other types of taxes — simply. As I said, I have asked Magdalena Andersson how she views this, and I have not received an answer. I think I know why I haven't got an answer. If you look at the government's policy, you can see that it is very clear that the taxes that the government is raising are precisely the taxes that are absolutely most harmful. The Minister of Finance increases the marginal tax on state income tax, which means that we get fewer hours worked. It makes the doctor forget to work an extra hour in the emergency room and go home and play with the children instead. There is in itself a value in it, but the Swedish health care system is under severe pressure. Generally speaking, we need more hours worked in the Swedish economy. And the Minister of Finance raises taxes for ordinary people and makes it less profitable to work! It is here somewhere that the explanation is that we are not being told by the Minister of Finance. As in the debate on the interest rebates, which we had half an hour ago, it would be desirable if we had a finance minister who could take a political stance, for an agenda, and debate it here in the Swedish Parliament and not just say that these are important issues that we want to discuss and then leave the walkover. Please, Minister of Finance, now take the chance and tell us which taxes are harmful and which are good for the economy!
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-232	Madam President, I would like After all, the increased marginal tax does not seem to have affected Fredrik Schultes's willingness to work – happily enough. I appreciate being able to hang in this Chamber together with Fredrik Schulte. It is, of course, a question of levying taxes in the most balanced way possible. Unfortunately, we took over public finances in very bad condition. We had to raise the tax in order to be able to implement reforms at the same time. When we took over in 2014, we had a combination of far too large deficits in public finances and school outcomes that fell fastest in the entire OECD world. There were great breaks in welfare. In order to carry out reforms in this situation, we had to increase government revenues and thus increase taxes. We have been working on a variety of tax increases, and we have tried to do so in a balanced way. Fredrik Schulte did not mention the youth worker's contribution, which was interesting. In the past, we have had many debates in this House on youth unemployment contributions. Many Moderates have argued that the increase would have devastating effects on young people's chances of getting a job. However, youth unemployment is now falling enormously even after the social security contributions for young people were raised. Then it is interesting that Fredrik Schulte takes up the OECD list. I'm sure he's studied it very carefully. The OECD clearly states that the least harmful tax – in other words, where it is best to levy tax – is property tax. Given that Fredrik Schulte represents a party that abolished the property tax, it would be interesting to hear how he discusses the property tax in the OECD's list of taxes that should be levied.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-237	Madam President, I would like The discussion that I am trying to start here is not really about how much taxes you want. I understand that Magdalena Andersson wants to raise taxes for ideological reasons. That is not what I criticise here and now. What I am trying to ask Magdalena Andersson is: what taxes does the Minister of Finance consider harmful and what taxes does the Minister of Finance consider less harmful? The Minister of Finance participated in Ekot's Saturday interview and said very clearly that she wants to work to minimise harmful taxes. Instead, she wants to raise taxes that are less harmful. It is regrettable that there is no clear information and that the Minister of Finance does not better defend, for example, the marginal tax increases introduced in the budget. One of Sweden's leading economists, Lennart Flood, has said that in the long run, the downscaling of the job tax deduction – which means that Sweden is once again breaking the world record in having the highest marginal taxes – will not bring in any money at all, but it will be plus minus zero. Those affected by this tax increase will simply work less. You will not work the extra hours, but instead you will go home to the family and relax. This is not positive from an economic point of view because Sweden already has a low proportion of hours worked among large parts of the employed. We all agree that we must increase the hours worked. But Magdalena Andersson is pursuing a policy that goes in the opposite direction, directly contrary to what virtually all economists think should be done. If Magdalena Andersson now wants to invite us to talk about how we can review Swedish taxes, Magdalena Andersson should declare what she herself thinks. To have a policy of consistently increasing taxes on labour, as all economists agree, is the least fruitful way of raising taxes, yes, then we have a problem. It is strange that the Minister for Finance cannot be clear. But I give the Minister of Finance a chance to answer the question: what taxes does the Minister of Finance consider particularly damaging to the economy? How does Magdalena Andersson relate to the fact that the economists are touchingly agreed that it is precisely the taxes that she herself raises in her latest budget that are harmful to the economy?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-243	Madam President, I would like We are in a serious situation where deficits in public finances are predicted to increase while the government is increasing most taxes, while the Council of Finance Ministers is saying that the government is breaching the fiscal framework, while the European Commission is saying that Sweden's deficit is expected to rise over the years to come. In addition, the government has stopped reporting in a clear and transparent way how it estimates that the various tax increases affect the labour market, growth and economy. This puts us in a position where the stability of public finances is, on good grounds, being called into question more and more frequently. In addition, this so-called co-operation government – but which is actually a betrayal government – will leave very unclear information to the Swedish people, and sometimes you leave clear answers that are then ignored. Prior to the election, Magdalena Andersson promised not to increase the petrol tax. Since then, the tax on petrol has been increased – a clear government of betrayal. Prior to the elections, Magdalena Andersson promised not to raise taxes for pensioners. Then the tax was increased for 200 000 pensioners – a clear government of betrayal. Before the elections, the Social Democrats said that the RUT and ROT deductions would not be reduced. Then the RUT deduction was halved and the ROT deduction deteriorated – a clear betrayal government. Prior to the election, Magdalena Andersson promised not to raise any income taxes for ordinary employees. Since then, taxes have been raised for 1.3 million regular income earners — a clear betrayal government. But it is not the betrayal and the betrayal government that is the big problem. The big challenge is what signals you send for the future. Fewer companies are concerned about the tax increases they expect on the basis of the amended directives that the government has given to investigations. There is concern about corporate tax increases. People around Sweden outside the subway system here in Stockholm are concerned about the kilometer tax increases that the government has announced. There is concern about the airline tax announced by the government. All in all, these measures would have a small impact on public finances, but there would be great burdens for people around this country. I myself come from Kalmar where the distances are many times large. The need for communications is considerable. For people who live north of Stockholm where the distances are large, it already costs a lot to move around. There, the Minister of Finance says that she is now going to strike with large tax increases on trucks, cars and airplanes. It will make it much harder for this whole country to live. At the same time, there is no control over expenditure in the Swedish economy. It is forecasted with revenues that, according to leading economists, will not happen. There is an increasing deficit in a situation where resource utilisation in the economy is full. Overall, it leads to the assessment that public finances are being lost. You send an expensive bill to ordinary people with ordinary jobs that structurally weaken Sweden's ability to compete internationally and create jobs and growth within our country – this in a situation where more people than for a very long time are outside the labour market. They need to get into it and get a job. Madam President, I would like This is a worrying development, and I hope that the Minister for Finance will be able to give clear answers.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-257	Madam President, I would like If you ask me if you want a tax increase, they will of course say no. Nobody wants a tax increase. At the same time, we need taxes to finance welfare. It also depends on how you ask the question. Do you, for example, want taxes to go to health care? It is a large majority who say yes. That is why the question is misplaced when you consider tax increases as something negative in themselves. We need to look at the needs of society and what the tax increase is to be used for. In the case of marginal taxes, we are talking about high income earners, people who earn between 50 000 and 100 000. It is not a huge tax increase either, but a few thousand for those who earn the most and hundreds for those who earn the least. The ordinary person is not really affected by this discussion, but is a high wage earner. Will a high wage earner really work less because of this? I seriously doubt that. If it's a few thousand less for the one who makes 100,000 a month, I doubt that's really what determines the economy. What is interesting to look at and important to recall is that the tax increases that the government has made – compared to the previous government's constant tax cuts – have so far halved the deficit in the state budget. Concerns were just expressed from moderate quarters that we may see increased deficits in the future. But then it is particularly important that we ensure that we have tax revenue, so that there is no running deficit, as was actually the case with the bourgeois government at the end of the last parliamentary term. Then the deficit increased. Now we have managed to halve it in this short time. Our ambition, as always under Social Democratic governments, is, of course, that we should have a stable economy. This is absolutely necessary in order to finance welfare. But it is not only the economy that must be in balance and stable – welfare must also receive the necessary money. We have great needs today. I think most people can agree on that. It is also the case that the labour market is completely dependent on the tax revenue that we can give to welfare. To ensure that people get jobs, we need to spend resources on preschool, comprehensive school, high school and so on, at all levels of education. One can see a very clear link: when education is lacking, when you do not qualify, when you fail grades and when young people drop out, the risk of unemployment is increasing enormously, which is hitting society as a whole. The fact that we are now investing more in education is very important for the whole labour market, not least the business sector, which has difficulty recruiting staff with the right skills. In fact, what the government is doing now is absolutely essential in order to secure jobs and welfare in the future. It will be a strange discussion when it sounds like a crisis would have hit Sweden in this short time. On the contrary, in many ways it looks very bright. Growth is good. Unemployment is falling, not least youth unemployment. We can finally invest in welfare reforms after a time when it has gone in the wrong direction in welfare. I don't really understand where these doom prophecies and the talk of a tax shock come from. After all, it is going in the right direction. Of course there are problems, but tax cuts are not the solution.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-263	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are happy and often talk about a fear of tax increases. It is said that the government wants to place heavy charges on ordinary people and send an expensive bill to ordinary people. That is, of course, a argument that can be reversed. One can think about who should pay the price for the politics that Fredrik Schulte, Niklas Wykman and the Moderates pursue and stand for. There is, of course, always an alternative cost. In the Moderates' budget options, in the funding solutions for welfare proposed by the Moderates in the Swedish Parliament, there is considerably less money for welfare, jobs and education. In the budgetary option proposed by the Moderates for this year, there were 25 billion less due to tax cuts. It is easy to stand in the Swedish parliament and talk about tax cuts, but the question that arises every time you reduce revenue is: Where in expenditure do you want to cut? It is also a cost, and ordinary people bear it.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-265	Madam President, I would like I noted that Fredrik Schulte did not answer the question about the OECD list, which he had studied very carefully. On that list, it is clear that property tax is the best tax to charge. It would be interesting to hear how Fredrik Schulte discusses the fact that his party abolished that tax. Nor did I receive an answer regarding the increase in employers' contributions for young people. The Moderates have often argued in the speaker's chair that it would mean that many young people would no longer get jobs. Has the increase in youth unemployment contributions had the effect that the Moderates warned and believed in? I was asked what direction the government has on tax policy. In spring 2015, the Swedish Parliament adopted the guidelines for fiscal policy presented by the government in the spring budget. It says to read what conditions we think should be based on when conducting tax policy and also what guiding principles the government has for the formulation of tax policy.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-268	Madam President, I would like We in this House very much agree on one thing, namely that Sweden should have the world's greatest welfare. We will have the world's top school, the world's top health care, the world's top elderly care and the world's top childcare facilities. We are in complete agreement on this. And to pay for it, you have to collect tax money. Only by this simple fact do we agree here in Parliament that Sweden should be a welfare state with relatively high taxes. But it must also be understood that it is not really a matter of having the highest taxes. It is not high taxes that give the most money to welfare, but it is a matter of having smart taxes. Why is it so important? Because if the economy grows more, you can have lower taxes and still get the same amount of money. Take Switzerland as an example! Switzerland receives as much money for the cash box per inhabitant as Sweden, even though they have half the Swedish tax burden. This is because Switzerland has a much stronger economy than Sweden. If Sweden were to be smart and have smarter taxes, if we were to lower the taxes that are harmful to the economy and raise the taxes that are less harmful to the economy, we could get even more money into welfare. That's just how you have to think. It is not a zero-sum game, as we were told earlier by the Socialist Members here, but we must have smart taxes that bring more growth and, by extension, more well-being. Then it is a question of reducing marginal tax and reducing income tax for ordinary people, so that it pays to work. The problem, Madam President, is that the direction of the Social Democrats is exactly the opposite. It will give less money to the welfare.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-271	Madam President, I would like This is the Swedish Parliament and not Jeopardy. Here it is possible for the Riksdag to ask questions to the Government and can expect answers to them. Here it is we who, as Members of Parliament, ask questions to Magdalena Andersson. We – and the Swedish people – expect answers to the questions that are asked and not just met with new and more questions. It is the Riksdag that requires responsibility from the Government, not the Government that requires responsibility from the Riksdag. It is the government that will answer to the Riksdag, not the Riksdag that will answer to the Government. This is a position that I hope the Minister for Finance will share. Nevertheless, I intend to devote this intervention to answering Magdalena Andersson's question about the property tax, a tax that was deeply unpopular with the Swedish people but defended by Magdalena Andersson and which she is now apparently opening up to reintroduce. This would be another betrayal, like the increased income tax imposed by the betrayal government, the increased tax on pensioners imposed by the betrayal government, and the halving of the RUT deduction and the deterioration of the ROT deduction carried out by the betrayal government. To introduce the property tax again would be another such betrayal – and especially strange in the light of the fact that Magdalena Andersson posed for the election on posters where it explicitly said: Do not re-introduce the property tax! Vote for the Social Democrats! If Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson thinks the property tax is so good and if she thinks it was a mistake of the Alliance to abolish the property tax, why did she pose in the election campaign on posters where there was a promise not to reintroduce the property tax? Magdalena Andersson is currently too busy to listen, but I suggest she answer the question. If it was a mistake for the Alliance to abolish the property tax, why was it posed on election posters?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-276	Mr President, I would like to You can't both eat the cake and keep it. So taxes cannot be reduced in any way and there is still good welfare. Somewhere from here, the income has to come anyway. After all, we have heard before that there will be dynamic effects of tax cuts that will even make more money for welfare when you lower the tax. This has been tested in practice. We've had eight years of bourgeois government. There were no dynamic effects. Unemployment increased and welfare deteriorated, so one wonders where these dynamic effects are. They do not exist in reality, but in theory. Nor is there a direct shift in moderate policy compared to the policy they pursued over eight years, but it is the same policy that they are going to run once again. Why would this produce completely different results than last time? Now the Moderates have come up with a new word, the betrayal government, which is repeated as far as everything is concerned. I can immediately see an error, and it is the pensioner's tax. It was introduced by the bourgeois government. Every time the employment tax deduction was reduced, the gap between the pensioner's tax and the wage earner's tax increased. The pensioner tax is being phased out by the Social Democrats. We have started with pensioners who are the most deprived, and we will move forward step by step with the others. To say that we would have introduced the pensioner tax is therefore completely absurd. We have made it clear that we will abolish it. We can't do it overnight, but it's a step-by-step process. So my question is, where is the betrayal? If so, it is the bourgeois government that introduced this tax.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-282	Mr President, I would like to We have now heard the Moderates and Fredrik Schulte say that it is actually the case that the Social Democrats and the Moderates and perhaps also the other parties sitting in this House agree that we should all have the world's greatest welfare in our country. I think we're a lot of people who allow us to doubt. Should you not do so, you can still ultimately ask the question: Is it a well-being where everyone contributes according to ability and also gets according to needs that Fredrik Schulte advocates? We do not get an answer to that in this debate, but perhaps we can get it some other time. What Fredrik Schulte has to answer to the rest of us who are sitting in this Chamber listening to the debate is what it means when he says that we should have smart taxes which, although we, with the Moderates' budget options, reduce the tax by 25 billion, mean that revenue for the state treasury will increase so much that the cuts that I claim will be the consequence of Fredrik Schultes's policy will not happen but that we will rather be able to invest in new reforms in our welfare. That doesn't really hold. Those of us who sit in the Chamber, those of us who sit on Parliament's Committee on Finance and also Fredrik Schulte know that there is something called multiplier effects, that is, what you get back from each invested crown. The best multiplier effects are achieved by investing in public welfare, consumption and investment. The worst, when we get the least money and the least growth back, we get tax cuts.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-286	Mr President, I would like to The government does not intend to reintroduce any property tax. However, I was a little curious about Fredrik Schultes's reasoning when he was stuck in the OECD's tax list and put it as an argument for how to design tax policy. I wondered how he himself discussed the logic of both advocating the OECD tax list and representing a party that abolished the property tax. But the government has no plan to reintroduce property tax. On the other hand, it is important for the government that we have a good tax charge, that we charge taxes in a balanced and sensible way. It is about levying taxes in such a way that we are able to finance the world's best welfare, and it is about using broad tax bases. It is about using taxes in such a way that we can steer towards more environmentally sustainable development but also about levying taxes in a fair and good way in terms of distribution policy. Taxes should also be compatible with the EU rules that we have and which impose some restrictions. It is through these restrictions that the government has pursued its tax policy. We have increased the tax levy to manage to implement important efforts to give all children the opportunity to receive the support they need at school, for our elderly to have a safe old age, for us to secure health care and much more. Of course, there is a great deal of concern about Moderate tax policy here. After all, during the last parliamentary term they carried out major tax cuts – mostly for those who earn the most. They did this on borrowed money and sent the bill to future generations. It is precisely this policy, which we have tried and which led to large deficits and to major breaks in welfare, that the Moderates want to continue in that they continue to propose major tax cuts that will lead to major cuts in our common welfare. It is a policy that does not build confidence in the future in Sweden.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-291	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte has asked me what reforms the government has achieved in the Riksdag that have helped Sweden to walk as a train. I would like to point out to Fredrik Schulte that the development of the Swedish economy is not the same as the state of public finances. When I presented the Ministry of Finance's forecasts for the Swedish economy in December, these showed that Swedish growth is very strong. What I said at that time, however, was not that Sweden is walking like a train, as Fredrik Schulte says, but that the Swedish economy is as good as a newly produced Tesla. Public finances, on the other hand, relate to general government revenue and expenditure. When I took office as Minister of Finance, I took over major public finance deficits, which I referred to as empty in the barns. Public finances are a prerequisite for long-term high employment and sustainable growth. Since the government took office, fiscal policy has changed in a more responsible direction. In just one year we have significantly reduced the government deficit that we inherited from the previous government. The Swedish economy is developing strongly. Bnp increased by over 4 per cent in 2015, and bnp per capita increased faster than normal. Growth is also expected to be strong this year, while the employment rate is increasing and unemployment is falling. One explanation for this is that the government is making extensive efforts to strengthen growth and repress unemployment. The Government's efforts in areas such as active labour market policy, infrastructure, education, welfare, climate change and active industrial policy strengthen growth and increase employment. These efforts, combined with a responsible fiscal stance, also help households and businesses to become more optimistic about the future, reinforcing the positive growth effects of government efforts. The government's reforms have been financed mainly by tax increases which have only marginal effects on growth. Overall, government reforms and their funding are assessed as contributing to a slightly higher rate of GDP growth and employment while reducing unemployment.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-298	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Sweden is in or on its way into a boom, and that is very positive. It is positive for our country's economy, and it should be good for the public finances. It is good for the Swedish people, who get more jobs, wage increases and so on. As a moderate, I think it is a positive statement of strength for the policy that the Alliance conducted over nine years. We were in government for only eight years, but we had nine years of alliance budgets. When Magdalena Andersson was going to try to get her first budget passed in 2015, she failed when the Riksdag voted in favour of the Alliance's budget. So we have had nine years of alliance budgets. The change in policy only started to come in August, about six months ago, when the Minister of Finance finally got through his upswing and a tax increase in employers' contributions for young people. Against this background, it is somewhat strange that the Minister of Finance pays tribute to the Swedish economy and tries to create a picture of the fact that Sweden is doing well at the same time as she believes that the policy the Alliance carried out earlier was disastrous. It is very clear that her own policy has only started to apply in practice since January. As I said, the first proposals that the Minister for Finance got through were only the increase in the a-cash and a small increase in taxes last autumn. She is also open to the fact that these proposals do not create jobs and growth, but serve other values. Then we will come back to what makes it good for Sweden. It is because of the policy that the Alliance has pursued for nine years. It is about making it more profitable for ordinary people to work, so that they do not get stuck in benefit systems. It has produced clear results. When the Alliance came to power in the historic boom of 2006 there were 1 million people living in alienation. Now 800 000 people live in alienation. What the government can do now is to ride on the good development. They can also hide behind the good development and avoid having to take responsibility for the policies that they themselves have and the many problems that they now build into the Swedish economy. The Economic Institute and the Financial Policy Council agree that the number of jobs will decrease by 30 000 – 40 000 jobs with the policy put forward by the government. In particular, the Minister of Finance is building up a huge problem when she is pursuing deficit policy in a boom. So she's not saving in good times, she's wasting. If you just waste, you end up at a point where you have to choose whether to parry the next recession with bets or not, and in that case you have to make it at the cost of raising the public debt. It is the great hangover that will hit the Swedish economy in three four years' time, when the recession comes back as a result of the government's booming deficit policy. This is what the Minister of Finance is trying to hide by saying that she halved the budget deficit. For the 100th time in this speaker's chair, I would like to point out that the budget deficit was halved by the Alliance's ninth state budget. What Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats have done is to increase deficits in relation to the 2015 budget. That is why Sweden will wake up with a hangover when the next recession comes.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-306	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte says that I am trying to create a picture of the Swedish economy going well. I think that a growth rate of 4 per cent means that the Swedish economy is doing well. I would like to hear whether Fredrik Schulte has any other views on this. I would also like to point out that, according to forecasts, public debt will decrease during the term of office. Fredrik Schulte says that the only thing we got through in 2015 was an a-cassage increase. I intend to read a little from the reform list in last year's spring change budget: competitive business policy, rail maintenance, higher education, adult education, folk high school, educational contracts, extra services, additions to the Public Employment Service, modern working life, early school interventions, attractive teaching profession, all schools should be good schools, climate investments and biodiversity. I can go on with much more. The spring change budget that we presented last spring was very comprehensive and involved many important reforms. It is also important to point out that the alliance motion presented in Parliament last autumn was based on the framework we had set for the budget work. They were a shift from the policy of the alliance government, with ever-increasing deficits. Instead, the framework meant halved deficits. Fredrik Schulte is concerned about the increased costs we have for migration, which will affect public finances in the coming years. He has been asked earlier this afternoon how the Moderates believe that we should accommodate the increased migration costs by about 30 billion, as the costs are this year as a result of the high asylum immigration last year. Do the Moderates believe that the tax should be increased to cover those costs, or should savings be made for the current year of SEK 30 billion?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-310	Mr President, I would like to It gets silly when the Minister of Finance tries to make a point of not agreeing that growth is at 4%. I put this interpellation in the light of the fact that the Swedish economy is doing well. I think it is positive, and I see it as a sign of strength for the alliance policy that we have pursued over the last nine years. If you really listened to the small list that Magdalena Andersson ran up in the speaker's chair, you could hear that she mentioned, among other things, educational contracts. How many young people have taken part in the education contract to date? It's not even a thousand. How many trainee workers have there been? I think the last number I saw was 200. It was a little embarrassing when the reform celebrated six months or whatever it was, and it was a trainee worker who was involved in celebrating. Does the Minister of Finance seriously believe that Sweden has a growth of 4 percent because the Minister of Finance set up 200 trainee jobs and that there are about the same number of people who take part in the training contract? It's not serious. It is clear that the government today can ride a success story for the Swedish economy that has been going on for quite a few years now. During the time of the Alliance, Sweden, together with Germany, has had perhaps the strongest economic development in the Western world. Now the Minister for Finance is presenting a clear political agenda which we will see the worst consequences of in three four years' time. Then the next recession will come and the Finance Minister will have wasted all the money. So we will not have the money to parry the next recession, because the Minister of Finance has not been able to hold public finances. If you just waste, spend in good times and spend in bad times, sooner or later you will suffer a large budget deficit. This is the hangover that the Minister of Finance is planting into the Swedish economy by not taking responsibility for public finances in good times. We will see that the real consequences of three to four years from now. Then the effect will also be that we will have structurally impaired employment by almost half a percent per year after 2018, according to the Ministry of Finance's own forecasts. On top of that, we have the fact that the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Financial Policy agree that the government's policy will lead to fewer jobs, i.e. 30 000. This is the Swedish political debate in a nutshell. Sweden has done well. The Minister of Finance can ride on that development, hide behind that development and try to hide the many problems she is building into for the future. It is possible that the Minister of Finance will count coldly on her losing the election. The numbers don't look very good. So far, this government has not delivered or created much confidence among the Swedish people. You might expect the hangover to hit the next government. It may well be that way. But in such cases it is the ultimate sign of a lack of sense of responsibility for our country.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-319	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte warns that you are wasting in bad times and then wasting in good times, because then you have to hangover. That's a very good summary of eight years of the Alliance government. That's exactly what you did. It's a self-taught lesson from Fredrik Schulte. What happened during the years of the alliance was that the tax was lowered when the times were bad. It may well be justified to reduce the public balance in that situation, but the tax on borrowed money continued to be reduced in good times. That is not a sensible way of pursuing a responsible economic policy. That is why we had to change the policy after the alliance government and move it in a more responsible direction. That is also why we stand with better public finances today. It is in order to meet unforeseen costs that it is important to pursue a tight and responsible economic policy. This is precisely the kind of unforeseen expenditure that has now come as surprisingly many people applied for asylum in Sweden last autumn. It is precisely in order to meet and accommodate the kind of temporary expenditure that we want proper margins in public finances, just what we have created. Here the question remains to Fredrik Schulte : Do the Moderates mean that this year we should raise taxes or lower spending by 30 billion to accommodate this temporary increase in expenditure? Or should we use the possibility of moving a little slower back to balance and surplus in public finances?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-323	Mr President, I would like to When Anders Borg stepped down as Minister of Finance, Sweden had by far the strongest public finances in Europe. Magdalena Andersson tries to give the impression that there were large deficits. What she's not telling us is that we were in complete agreement on those deficits. She's trying to make a rhetorical point about the Alliance just lowering the tax. But what she herself would have wanted to do, if she had been Minister of Finance at the same time, was to increase the subsidies, what she is now doing. It is always the heart of Social Democratic policy: increasing contributions. She is also trying to give the impression that she would have halved the budget deficit. I have certainly said this 101 times in this speaker's chair: Magdalena Andersson did not get her first budget in Parliament, but it was the Alliance's budget that halved the budget deficit. What we are now seeing is that Magdalena Andersson is increasing the budget deficit. If you live over your assets in good times– these are now good economic times– it means that we don't have room to invest and stimulate the economy in bad times. This in turn means that if we are not to suffer draconian cuts in welfare when the next recession comes, we will have to raise the public debt, i.e. send the bill to the young people, to those who will live in Sweden in the future. This is a deeply irresponsible policy that will affect Sweden's economy and perhaps, above all, Sweden's young people in a very negative way. That is not the direction the Moderates want to see. If the Minister of Finance reads the Moderates' budget, she can see that there we are proposing a series of austerity and savings. We will also come back with it in the next budget.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-328	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte is still the answer to how the Moderates really believe that they should take care of the increased cost of asylum seekers. They say that deficits increase and are very critical of it but do not have answers to which taxes they should raise or where they should cut. But one thing is clear. With a moderate policy, there will be strong cuts, because we want to implement major tax cuts. Or it will be as it was when the Moderates were last in government position: very large deficits in public finances. Here the government has a clear reform agenda. We believe that we need to ensure that we manage well-being in a good way. In this way, we have increased the opportunities for schools to hire teachers. We have increased the opportunities to give teachers a good remuneration, so that they want to stay and be teachers. We have invested further in strengthening preschools both at regular times and on uncomfortable working hours, for people who work at that time. We have made important efforts to give young people the opportunity to work, study and practice instead of going into long-term unemployment months and months. We have carried out a strengthening of care for the elderly, reduced pensioner's tax and in a number of ways strengthened Swedish welfare. It is an important part of Sweden to have a well-functioning welfare. It's a central part. It is the Swedish model, of which we are all so proud. This is what Fredrik Schulte calls a little sloppy for contributions. Yes, I am proud that we have been able to raise the allowances for single parents so that the children who grow up in those families have better financial conditions. I am proud that we have introduced a pair of glasses so that all children can see what is written on the board no matter what income their parents have. I am proud that we have removed the costs of medicines for children, so that all children have the opportunity to get the medicines they need regardless of their parents' income. I know that Fredrik Schulte disdainfully calls this an increase in subsidies. I'm very proud of that policy.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-333	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me how I view the analysis and reporting of the expected impact of the policies pursued, as well as the sustainability of public finances. Transparency and transparency of the impact of economic policies are important. The Government therefore presents its assessment of the impact of proposed reforms on growth, employment and unemployment in the economic proposals. However, there is considerable uncertainty as to the extent to which and at what rate, for example, unemployment is changing as a result of various measures. The reform effects reported by the previous government are based on model estimates and thumb rules that may be considered extremely uncertain, which may give a false impression of accuracy. The previous government's assessments are often contradicted in subsequent evaluations. Such disclosure does not promote transparency. For citizens to have confidence in fiscal policy, it must be sustainable. This is a prerequisite for meeting both new recessions and future demographic challenges. The developments in several euro area countries over the past few years show the cost of failing confidence in fiscal policy. A loss of confidence can force a rapid shift in fiscal policy, from growth, welfare and employment measures to debt restructuring measures. From this point of view, the weakening of public finances caused by the policies of the previous government is deeply problematic. The Government makes periodic assessments of the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy. The aim is to capture adverse signs early so that corrective action can be taken on time. The government's latest assessment, published in the 2016 budget bill, showed that fiscal policy is sustainable in the long term, despite the fact that the previous government continued to weaken its finances with unfunded tax cuts even after the economic cycle had clearly turned upwards. An updated assessment of the sustainability of fiscal policy will shortly be published in the 2016 spring economic proposal.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-338	Mr President, I would like to During the day, we have heard, among other things, Hillevi Larsson from the Social Democrats in this pulpit using the concept of the betrayal government. We are happy to agree with that description of the government that we now have, which is represented here by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. It is a matter of betrayal of the 200 000 pensioners who receive increased tax rather than reduced tax. It is about the betrayal of the RUT and the ROT deduction, where the RUT deduction is halved and where the ROT deduction is deteriorating, despite promises that this would not happen. This is about the betrayal of employees who, according to Magdalena Andersson in the election campaign, would not get any increased tax – now 1.3 million employees get increased tax. It is about the betrayal of the car owners who were promised in the election campaign by Magdalena Andersson that the petrol tax and diesel tax would not be increased. Now we have seen how that tax has been increased. The concept of betrayal is a symbol of the government that is now sitting. But it is not the individual betrayal of the pensioners, of the RUT workers, of the employees or of those who depend on the car that is the biggest betrayal of Sweden, but it is the loss of control over public finances. It is about the betrayal of moving away from the surplus target despite the promise in the election movement to keep the surplus target. It is about the betrayal of abandoning the fiscal framework. The Council is very careful to point out that this Minister of Finance is the first Minister of Finance in Sweden to breach the fiscal framework. The kind of betrayal of public finances that this government represents risks to Swedish workers, the Swedish economy and Swedish growth very expensive. Finally, when public finances are out of control, nothing else remains to be discussed at all. Almost half of everything we have in Sweden is due to our ability to export. We are thus very exposed to the outside world and what is happening there. If we do not have shelters when the next crisis comes, it will hit Swedish jobs very hard and Swedish growth opportunities. We know this from before. The former Social Democratic colleague of the Minister for Finance, Jens Henriksson, has written a comprehensive evaluation of past Social Democratic betrayal of public finances. There he looks at the point-by-point way in which the Social Democrats and the policies they were pursuing caused the 90th century crisis. This publication has since been hailed by Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt, among others, who referred to a party that had whale fever. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, the next elections are still a long way from now. Yet we see these overheating tendencies of the Social Democrats. Revenue and expenditure are simply not linked, and public finances are weakened in such a way that it makes Sweden very exposed. In particular, women's employment is at risk when the economy declines. Mr President, I would like to That's why this interpellation was awakened. Amongst others, the European Commission points out that government deficits will grow over the years to come, despite a general improvement in the situation in the economy. Mr President, I would like to Here the Minister of Finance has already made an important point by distinguishing between the state of the economy and the state of public finances. The Minister of Finance correctly describes that the Swedish economy is doing well. And what makes the Swedish economy going well? Reforms that have been implemented, talented Swedish companies and diligent Swedish people who go to work provide a strong economy. On the other hand, the part for which the Minister of Finance is responsible, the public finances, is doing less well or, quite frankly, badly. The fiscal framework is being broken and deficits are growing over the years to come. I therefore share the view of the Minister for Finance that a distinction must be made between the Swedish economy and public finances. The Swedish economy contributes to all people. Public finances are the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, and it is precisely public finances that are not up to the mark.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-348	Mr President, I would like to It is true that I used the word betrayal government, but it was because Niklas Wykman used it. I just noted that now the Moderates have come up with a new word: the betrayal government. The accusations and allegations are directly false, and that is what I was talking about in my previous speech. Perhaps I should repeat that, because Niklas Wykman repeats his message that we have failed pensioners. It was the Moderates and the bourgeoisie who introduced the pensioner tax. With the so-called job tax deduction, the gap between wage earners and pensioners widened for each step. Sweden is the only country in Europe to tax pensioners higher than wage earners, and it was the previous government that introduced this tax gap and even added to it with every job tax deduction. What we have promised is that we will phase out the pensioner's tax. It may take time, but we have promised that we will. We've already taken the first step. Those with the lowest pensions, guarantee pensioners, have been completely exempt from the pensioner's tax. Even some who have a little more pension have had a tax cut, so that they have approached the employees in tax. If one then speaks of betrayal, I wonder a little about what the Moderates and Fredrik Reinfeldt said when they went to elections more than nine years ago, that it was a question for the moderate and bourgeois government to be judged on, and that was unemployment. That was the most important issue and one from which to judge the government. In other words, if unemployment did not succeed, it was a failure of the moderate and bourgeois government. What happened was unemployment rising. The bourgeois government was even given two terms of office, but it did not get better but only worse. It was quite clear that unemployment had risen sharply, particularly long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, which is very serious because it could lead to the exclusion of people who, at worst, never return to the labour market. I must say, therefore, that I was surprised that, after this short time in power, we were accused of one betrayal after another. After all, the swoop against the pensioners is a betrayal that the Moderates are responsible for. I must say, I am surprised at these gross accusations. Furthermore, I am accused of thinking that it is also a government of betrayal, just because I repeat the expression that Niklas Wykman has come up with. I'm actually surprised. I think the question should be asked how to explain that the Moderates did not succeed in the question on which elections were held in two elections, unemployment. Now you want to run the same recipe with tax cuts again. Why would things end differently this time? That is the big question. As far as betrayal and electoral promises are concerned, we Social Democrats have already ticked off a great many of our electoral promises – this despite the fact that in the early days we were forced to act with a bourgeois budget, because unfortunately we did not get our budget through at the first stage. I think that is a very good result after such a short time in power. We have been clear and concrete in showing what electoral promises we have ticked off, and we will of course step by step check all of them. I have to say that I am a little surprised by the harsh tone after this short time in power when, after all, we have ticked off so much and where the previous government has some answers to give to the voters based on promises.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-358	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman is concerned about the state of public finances. But if there's anything Niklas Wykman should be worried about, it's the effects of eight years of moderate politics. What we see is that public finances have been strengthened now that we have a new government, while during the eight years of the alliance government they deteriorated every year. During the financial crisis itself, this was well-motivated, but it was happily continued to reduce the tax, mostly for those who earned the most, even when the economic cycle turned. When we took over government power in 2014, the state finances were not in such a state as they should be. After that, we have turned fiscal policy in a more responsible direction. What Niklas Wykman should be concerned about is not the policy of a social democratic and environmental party government, but it is the result of his own policy. The results we saw after eight years with a moderate-led alliance government were lower public finances, higher unemployment, higher youth unemployment, higher long-term unemployment and school outcomes that fell faster than in any analogue country. The concern that Niklas Wykman has, I think, should be directed inwards rather than outwards.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-362	Mr President, I would like to Hillevi Larsson comes back to the concept of betrayal government, and that is because of exactly what I'm telling you. It has been promised to lower the tax on pensioners, but instead it increases the tax on 200 000 pensioners. It has been promised not to touch the RUT and ROT deductions but to halve the RUT deduction and reduce the ROT deduction. It has been promised not to increase the tax on ordinary wage earners but to raise the tax on 1.3 million wage earners. It has been promised not to increase the tax on petrol but to raise it. Then it is a betrayal, and a government that fails is, of course, also a government of betrayal. However, the great betrayal, Mr President, is about public finances. Some things need to be put right in a debate and a discussion. During the alliance government, the jobs in Sweden, despite deep international recession and crisis, became 350 000 more. We said, "Exercise yourself on the job!" And we had to be evaluated after 350,000 more jobs. Sweden also had when this government took over the EU's strongest public finances. In no other country in the European Union were public finances as strong and well-managed as in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore worrying that the Minister for Finance has been able to change this picture so quickly by creating great uncertainty about financial stability and public finances. It is gratifying that the Minister of Finance repeatedly highlights also the ninth year of alliance in the Swedish economy, 2015, when Sweden was governed by an alliance budget. Thanks to previous alliance reforms, the economy was able to perform very well. In 2015, we were also able to halve the deficits from the crisis with an alliance budget. It was a very balanced budget that helped Sweden and made Sweden stronger. However, it is now that we have a social democratic and environmental budget that we see the problems amassing. Mr President, I would like to I am humbled by the fact that it is not easy to put together a budget with the Green Party, the Left Party and the very left-wing Social Democracy that is sitting in many of Sweden's departments. However, it is worrying when the Financial Control Agency and the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs say that the government overestimates the revenue that certain reforms will bring and, above all, when the same authorities say that the government severely underestimates the expenditure increases that some reforms bring. We therefore have expert authorities who clearly say to the government that the revenue increases described are unlikely to come true and that the increases in expenditure referred to by the government are seriously underestimated. Mr President, I would like to In this way, a large gap in public finances is gradually being dug. We have frameworks and budgetary rules that should be respected. But one should not be led to believe that tax increases, benefit increases and changes in economic conditions do not also affect what people do with their time, money, work efforts, occupations and educational choices. Here, leading experts clearly point out that the government is making wrong judgements. In the short term, of course, we can do this, from budget to budget. But what does this create for the situation in Sweden in the long term? Well, we get a budget hole that someone will have to fill after Magdalena Andersson because public finances have gradually and long-term weakened. Public finances are not only weakened in the long term. The Fiscal Council has clearly inculcated that the government is in breach of the fiscal framework. It is therefore very serious criticism from leading experts, from expert authorities and from the government's own fiscal council. However, the Minister for Finance does not seem at all concerned about this. It worries me a lot.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-372	Mr President, I would like to Now Niklas Wykman repeats once again that I would call the government a government of betrayal. Then I repeat once again that it is Niklas Wykman's expression. I think it is out of place in view of the greatest betrayal of all: unemployment and that we still have no answer as to why the bourgeois government did not fix the jobs. And now you want to solve the problem with the same policy. As far as pensioners are concerned, we have completely abolished pensioner's tax on guarantee pensioners, and the group receiving a little more pension has been reduced in pensioner's tax. So that's a false statement. Moreover, it was the bourgeois government that introduced the pensioner's tax. The vast majority of pensioners have received better pensions because growth and employment have increased and unemployment has decreased. At the same time, we are told that the tax increases represent a crisis for our country. Rather, developments show the opposite, and at least there is no crisis. Of course, other factors also play a role, but it is essential that we get our finances in order. We have already halved the budget deficit. The fact that we would create a budget deficit is another false statement. It was created under the previous government. As I said, we have already halved it and will reduce it further. I wonder about that. It would have been more appropriate to talk about a betrayal government when the government has been in office for longer and if you think that there is much that the government has not fulfilled. But the government managed to change labour market policy even before this year's budget came into place, despite difficult conditions and with a bourgeois budget in the early days. Now we have also begun to implement our reforms. So it's been quick.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-377	Mr President, I would like to The government has since it took office implemented important and strong measures to reverse developments in Sweden. We have taken a firm hold on public finances and turned the development that prevailed at the Ministry of Finance when Niklas Wykman worked there and the deficits constantly increased. Instead, we are now seeing a positive path for public finances. We have taken on labour market policy. Instead of letting people go out of work month after month, we work actively for people who were previously in phase 3 and not least for young people. Our assessment is that it is unfortunate if young people are to have to go unemployed month in and month out. We have also implemented important initiatives to improve school development, strengthen health care and care for the elderly and strengthen our social security systems. Together, order and order in public finances, active labour market policies, secure well-being and strong, functioning social insurance are a central part of the Swedish model, which we all tend to be so proud of and talk about when we are abroad. It is a policy that the government will continue to pursue, because we believe it is important to build Sweden strongly for the future and create hope for the future through an active policy and responsible fiscal policy.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-382	Mr President, I would like to One of the issues in the interpellation concerns the responsibility for public finances. It is about the management of public finances but also about the transparency of public finances and the measures taken by the government. Being transparent and open and discussing how to manage the economy and how it affects jobs and growth when launching reforms contributes to a better society and a stronger Sweden. Unfortunately, this is clouded by the government because it does not want to give a clear account of the estimated impact of the reforms it is undertaking. Mr President, I would like to It becomes cloudy and unclear when the Minister for Finance stands in the speaker's seat and says that there is now a better path for public finances. What course? How is it accounted for? When is it accounted for? What is the context in which it is presented? The European Commission's forecast shows that Sweden's public finances are not at all heading towards increased surpluses or even towards surpluses at all. We are not even going towards balance or towards smaller deficits, but Sweden is moving towards increased deficits, from 1% of GDP to 1.1 – 1.2% of GDP. There are no comments from the Minister of Finance, who of course is under a very great pressure of expenditure from the Green Party, from the left-wing Social Democratic Party and from the Left Party. She must fulfill many wishes with the money she has at her disposal. When a finance minister is unable to withstand the expenditure pressure that exists in politics, it is in danger of affecting the whole country. What we have before us risks becoming a historical betrayal of women in Sweden. There is a risk of a historic betrayal of the unemployed. If you do not replenish during the current boom, Sweden cannot face the effects of the next crisis or recession. Then people will be affected, and Magdalena Andersson will be held responsible.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-389	Mr President, I would like to Let me say again that when Niklas Wykman warns, he warns essentially about his own policy. This is exactly what happened at the Ministry of Finance when Niklas Wykman was there. Despite the swing of the economy, one could not resist but continued with large, unfunded tax cuts so that the deficit increased and increased. For each year we had an alliance government, the government deficit increased because it was more important to reduce the tax quickly than to take long-term responsibility for the financing of welfare. That is exactly what is the ideological difference between the Moderates and the Social Democrats. We believe that a common and well-functioning welfare is a central part of the Swedish model. It is important to safeguard and ensure that there is stable funding for. That is why the Social Democrats have always taken responsibility for public finances. For the Moderates it is not as important, but for you the main goal is to lower the tax. It is much more important than taking responsibility for welfare. That is why bourgeois governments have always left large deficits in public finances. These deficits have been taken over by the Social Democrats and then ensured that our welfare is financed so that there is secure, long-term and stable funding. Here is one of the important dividing lines in Swedish politics. The Social Democrats always take responsibility for public finances because we think it is important to have a well-functioning general welfare so that all citizens in Sweden should feel safe when they are children, when they grow old, when they get sick – throughout their lives.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-393	Mr President, I would like to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the Swedish Transport Agency offers legal persons the same payment solutions as natural persons when moving the bridge over Motalaviken, for example. It is clear from the calculation examples Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin gives that he is not quite properly informed about how the Swedish Transport Agency handles notification of infrastructure charges or bridge charges. I would therefore like to begin with a description of how it works today. From 1 February 2015, the bridge fee will be charged for crossing the bridge over Motalaviken and for crossing the bridge over Sundsvallsfjärden. The bridge fee is charged to finance the construction of the bridge in question. At the end of each month, the Swedish Transport Agency sends a payment avi to the vehicle owner, where the total amount charged for the previous calendar month is shown. The Swedish Transport Agency offers a so-called collective notification for companies and organisations that have several vehicles and want to receive a single payment avi for these. If the infrastructure charge is not paid in time, a delay fee is charged. The delay fee is SEK 300 and is charged no more than once per car and calendar month. Vehicle owners can, in the same way as for congestion tax, order e-avi for infrastructure charge. However, this requires that the vehicle owner's social security number or corporate registration number is consistent with that of the bank customer and that the bank in question offers e-invoices. Only four banks currently offer e-invoices to companies. In the case of congestion tax, it is also possible to pay it via direct debit, and companies can pay through so-called EDI. EDI is a technology that enables the Swedish Transport Agency to send aviaries electronically to companies. It is already possible for private individuals to pay an infrastructure fee by direct debit. In the long term, the Swedish Transport Agency will enable companies to pay their infrastructure fee via EDI. I note that the Swedish Transport Agency already offers notification solutions that make it easier for companies to pay their bridge fee and that it is planned to offer electronic notification in the future that is currently available for congestion tax. There is therefore no need to take any further action.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-400	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Infrastructure for his reply. The image given by the Minister for Infrastructure, that there would be no problem to remedy, is not really shared by those who actually feel that there is a problem. It is certainly as the Minister for Infrastructure says, that it is only announced once a month and that invoices are then sent out in lumps. That may well be true. But at the end of the interpellation response, the Minister for Infrastructure is dealing with precisely what is the problem, i.e. that as a private individual you can get direct debit but as an entrepreneur it is not possible. I think that points to a question of principle: how is the state, the public, acting as a creditor? With regard to the fee of SEK 5, one can discuss the reasonableness of having one, but this is not a debate on bridge charges. A fee of SEK 5 is charged with a delay fee of SEK 300 for those who do not pay the fee within the stipulated time. It is also a problem that, for example, different types of payment solutions are offered to entrepreneurs. For example, you can have your congestion tax handled via direct debit but not when you cross a bridge – two systems that should be identical to those you handle. That's where the problem lies. The Swedish Transport Agency informs the relevant entrepreneurs that they can do nothing about the problem. They obviously do not have the information that it will be introduced later. It would therefore be nice if the Minister for Infrastructure could tell us today when legal and natural persons will be treated equally in this regard. Today, the reality is that anyone who passes through a place where there is a congestion charge and then passes over a bridge and has the congestion charge on direct debit receives a letter with macular invoices that has already loaded the account. In the middle of the pile of macular invoices, an invoice can sneak in with a due date for a bridge crossing fee. It is quite understandable that you simply miss this because you have to handle two parallel systems. In this case, delays are charged which are several tens of thousands of percent higher than the original amount. Is this reasonable? Is that a good example of how the state should behave as a creditor? When will the Swedish Transport Agency ensure that natural and legal persons are treated equally? These are questions that I hope the Minister for Infrastructure will be able to answer when the debate resumes.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-409	Mr President, I would like to It has been a few hours since we interrupted this debate. I hope that both we and those who may listen will remember the initial discussion. There were a number of examples of how companies are affected today in the interpellation that has been made, and you could get, for example, SEK 3 000 in late fees if you have passed the bridge ten times. In my interpellation response, I tried to point out that the delay fee is a maximum of SEK 300 per month. Nor is it the case, as stated in the interpellation, that you receive an invoice for each passage without receiving a collection invoice. As a company, you can collect all your vehicles and get an invoice. In the case of several of the examples set out in the interpellation, this is not how it is handled. As I also replied, there is already the possibility of receiving an electronic invoice as a company, provided that it is connected to a bank offering that service. Today, only four banks in Sweden do so. It is of course extremely important that the Transport Agency and other authorities act in a way that makes it as easy as possible for both companies and individuals to do the right thing. At the same time, I can say that some of the questions raised here in the speaker's chair are about whether it is reasonable to have a fee of SEK 5, whether it makes any sense to charge such a fee and whether SEK 300 is a reasonable penalty fee for delay might have been more reasonable to ask when these decisions were taken. This happened during the last parliamentary term when the then government decided that both of these bridge constructions would be financed by bridge charges. The amount of the levy and the amount of the fine were then also determined. Of course, one can have views on it, and one might think that this government should have done something different with it. But it was the then government that decided on what is in force today and that the interpellation is actually about. It may be worth mentioning, because otherwise it may be difficult for those who might listen to the interpellation debate to understand that this is the case.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-416	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure that's the way the invoices are sent out on a monthly basis. The evidence I have taken note of claims that there will be several separate 5-krona invoices in a shorter time than a month. It is possible that this information is not correct. In any case, the Minister for Infrastructure is dealing with what is the real problem, namely that the Transport Agency operates two parallel systems for natural persons and for legal persons. In addition, different types of charges are distinguished. Direct debiting for congestion tax is possible for both individuals and companies, but it is not possible to direct debit when it comes to crossing a bridge that costs SEK 5 to pass, which means that the individual entrepreneur has to handle direct debiting but also physical paper invoices of SEK 5 that come. It becomes even more complicated when the Swedish Transport Agency does not send out the invoice separately but sends it in the makulatur regarding congestion charges and puts it somewhere in the middle. This makes the handling difficult and easy to miss. In this respect, the Minister for Infrastructure does not identify any problem. I believe that it is absolutely a problem when an authority informs entrepreneurs in Sweden that it unfortunately has two different systems for natural and legal persons and that it does not intend to do anything about it. The information provided by the Minister for Infrastructure here today that this will be introduced in the long term is not the information provided by the Authority to the people concerned by this problem. Then it would be interesting to have a clarification here from the speaker's seat. When will natural persons and legal persons be treated in the same way by the Swedish Transport Agency when it comes to bridge charges?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-421	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the way in which the Swedish Transport Agency or the company that performs this service for the Swedish Transport Agency chooses to package its invoices, I really cannot answer that. But I assume that the easiest way is to contact the Swedish Transport Agency and draw their attention to the fact that it can be difficult to distinguish between the different types of invoices. I have, frankly, a little hard to see that this would be an issue to be raised at ministerial level. On the other hand, I maintain that it is important for our authorities to act in a way that makes it easier for both companies and individuals to do the right thing and that they have a positive attitude to simplification and are constantly working to strengthen their role as service providers. I know there is such work going on in the Swedish Transport Agency. It is already possible, as I said, to receive an electronic invoice also as a company, provided that you are connected to a bank offering this service. When it comes to paying via EDI, the Swedish Transport Agency plans to introduce this possibility for companies as well. As far as I understand, direct debiting is something that is used to a very small extent. Therefore, it is probably the case that the Swedish Transport Agency will not offer this very opportunity, as it is a service that is in little demand. On the other hand, the possibility of paying via the EDI will also be introduced for companies. I have no indication of when in time as this will happen. However, such work is ongoing within the agency. I hope that the person who asks questions to the authority will also receive the same answer, so that the same answer is given regardless of who asks the question. It is, of course, important that the information in this regard should be correct. As regards the way in which they package their consignments, I would rather say that it should reasonably be enough to contact the authority and point this out. But I have no knowledge of how it is done, and I do not think it is a question that neither the parliament nor the government should put so much effort and energy into. We shall of course ensure that the authorities are given a mandate and that they are constantly working to improve their service and facilitate as much as possible for people to do the right thing. As far as the design of the system is concerned, it is therefore a decision taken by the previous government.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-427	Mr President, I would like to To try to make this a question of how to package invoices is to actively misunderstand the whole of this question and to try in some way to throw a kind of veil at the fact that there are entrepreneurs who feel that it is a problem that they cannot get the same handling of charges that individuals can get. These entrepreneurs' contacts with the Swedish Transport Agency suggest that the authority does not fulfil its service mission and is unable to answer why they cannot offer the same payment solutions to entrepreneurs that you can get as a private person or the same payment solutions that you can get when you pass control stations for example for congestion charges. This creates unnecessary handling. Then, of course, we cannot stand here and discuss how to package invoices. I lifted it to exemplify that a state authority acts in a way that I think can be questioned when it comes to being a good creditor. In other words, invoices are sent out for very small fees – in this case SEK 5 – in what is otherwise a maculatur and then impose sanctions of SEK 300. I do not think that this fits well with the service mission the Swedish Transport Agency has, and it was therefore my hope to get clarification from the Minister for Infrastructure of when natural and legal persons will be treated as equal in this regard.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-431	Mr President, I would like to I hope that with this interpellation debate and also with the response to the interpellation we have sorted out some questions that were obviously not fully investigated when the interpellation was asked, such as that one does not receive an invoice for each passage and that one can get a collective invoice for all the vehicles of the company. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, the very extensive handling on which the interpellation was actually based does not look like that. The Swedish Transport Agency is also planning to offer companies the possibility to be invoiced via EDI. I hope that this will happen urgently. I fully agree that our authorities have an important role to play in being good service providers and making it easier for businesses and individuals to do the right thing. I also see that there is a lot of such work going on, not least within the Swedish Transport Agency, where we see that it produces good results. I hope that in the near future we will see a good result in this area too.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-433	Mr President, I would like to Lars Hjälmered has asked me if I think it is possible to make investments in bus systems as part of possible agreements within the framework of the Swedish negotiations and whether I think bus systems are a good solution for a modern public transport system in Gothenburg. Let me be clear that there are no restrictions in the directives to the Swedish negotiations on the negotiating officer's mandate relating to measures in large cities to only rail traffic. As far as I am aware, the negotiations have just begun, and I assume that the objects proposed by the negotiator at this stage for the City of Gothenburg are precisely negotiating proposals which, together with local and regional actors, can be discussed and possibly re-examined until agreements have been reached, which, according to the directives, will take place by 31 December 2017 at the latest.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-435	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Gothenburg and western Sweden are a growing region. It is much of an industrial and logistical hub in Sweden, and for the city and the region to continue to develop, strong investment in infrastructure is needed. This has historically happened with, for example, the Göta tunnel, and it is now going on in a Western Swedish package. There are also negotiations within the framework of Sweden's negotiations on what could be going forward. I want us to be able to develop Gothenburg in a good way. There are, of course, needs in other parts of the country as well, and if we talk about traffic solutions, I think that both rail traffic and different types of bus solutions are needed – to have said this in this debate. But it may also be worth looking a little at this type of modern, highly efficient bus system. It's about what you sometimes call BRT, bus-rapid transit. That's really what the Gothenburg-Post in Saturday's newspaper in one, I think, well-called, Think tram, drive bus and bus, think metro, drive bus and bus. It has been demonstrated that it is possible to obtain cost-effective solutions with high capacity and lower investment costs than would be the case with trams, for example. The operating costs are reasonable, and the environmental performance is very good if the buses run on pure electric power. I therefore think that there are strong reasons to consider including this in future solutions for Gothenburg, among others. This also applies to other parts of Sweden. In addition, we have AB Volvo in my home town and the Minister's home town. They primarily sell trucks and buses, and I think that this is an opportunity for such a company to invest in its own home market – in its own hometown – and to demonstrate that the kind of solutions they have for modern bus systems can be used. They can be used as an example and then sold to other cities in other parts of the world. Let me get into this with the Swedish hearing, because I have asked the Minister the question for the reasons that have come. There is a document from the Swedish hearing that you call a selection of urban objects you have come up with. The document, dated 8 February, says that almost half of the proposals that have come in from different regions around the country have been measures for state infrastructure, such as double tracks, new stations and measures for BRT – thus these bus solutions. They refer to the regular financing process in a national plan and county plan. If you ask different actors in this, such as industry representatives who manufacture bus solutions, they feel that different messages are given from government representatives and negotiators. The same is true if you ask local political colleagues in Gothenburg. Therefore, Mr President, I think it is appropriate to ask these questions. What is the government's view? Should it be possible to invest in bus solutions as part of the Swedish negotiation, and does the government believe that this type of modern and highly efficient bus solutions is good for a city like Gothenburg? I note from the reply that the Minister has not answered the second question, Mr President, i.e. whether it is a good solution or not. On the question of whether it should be part of the Swedish negotiation, the Minister rightly states that there is nothing in the directives that hinders bus solutions. But at the same time, if we see that the negotiators say, "Traffic traffic!" We have a problem with the provision of services to municipalities that deal with rail transport and say that they do not have a mandate to negotiate modern bus systems in Gothenburg. That is why, Mr President, my supplementary question is: does the Government think that some kind of clarification is needed, for example in this debate or in the form of a clarification directive to the Swedish hearing, in order to have modern bus solutions in our home town in the future – if you find it most appropriate?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-444	Mr President, I would like to Which public transport systems are best suited in Gothenburg, I think Gothenburg's politicians and planners are best placed to respond to. The government has nothing in principle against bus systems, in particular efficient bus systems with high capacity, but I see no reason why I, as a minister, should go in and prescribe what solution a particular municipality should advocate in a discussion. I do not think there is any need for clarification in the form of a specific assignment, because there are no restrictions on Sweden's negotiation of the type suggested in the interpellation. If so, it is a limitation that you have taken on yourself. Nor have I heard that it has been expressed in the way that is now being done in the speaker's chair, that is to say that it does not perceive that it has a mandate to negotiate anything other than rail traffic. The outcome of a negotiation depends, of course, on what the parties involved in the negotiation, individually but also jointly, have for entry values in the negotiation. What we have seen now is what the Swedish negotiation as a first negotiating bid has left to the municipalities. What the municipalities respond to this and how they eventually reason on a common position remains to be seen. After all, the Swedish hearing is a state investigation at the bottom, and this means that the investigator has a mandate to conduct the hearing on the basis of the directive they have simply carried out in the manner that the investigation considers justified or appropriate. So, at this stage, I will not go in and regulate in detail what kind of offers or negotiating bids are to be made. On the other hand, I can tell you that neither the directives nor in any other way is there any resistance to effective bus systems on the part of the government – either in Gothenburg or any other municipalities.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-448	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with such solutions because they are quite exciting. Now I happen to be a civil engineer, and Gothenburg is my home town and Volvo's. The possibilities are fantastic, especially if you take bus 55, which is a clean electric bus in Gothenburg, a step forward to the highly efficient bus systems. It is an incredible business opportunity for Volvo and extremely job opportunities. That's part of it. Then it is very true that the Government says, that it is local wishes combined with what negotiators think that together should find the most cost-effective. It can be buses, trams or completely different solutions. The result of the question is that you should not close the door. I'm a little worried there. The Minister is right on one point. If you read the directives for the Swedish negotiation there is nothing about any restrictions, that it should only be rail traffic and not modern bus systems. It is absolutely right that this is the way it is. In practice, however, doors are now being closed. The local party colleagues of Anna Johansson in Gothenburg want the modern bu systems to be part of the negotiations and be part of future solutions. This may be tested on its own merits. The future visions up to 2035 were presented in a very nice way, I think, in the Gothenburg-Post last Saturday. This may be the solution for Gothenburg, but it remains to be seen. There is therefore a desire to do so. The type of bid that has come from the Swedish negotiation to Gothenburg and other actors only relate to rail traffic. Then it will be a problem that lands on the minister's knee. There is a directive that does not exclude other traffic. The negotiators obviously interpret the directives in such a way that it should only be rail traffic and not modern bus systems. Then my point is that one must get clarification from the government, either an additional directive or something else to the investigators that, if one wishes and considers it appropriate, it should be possible to invest in both trams and modern bus systems in Gothenburg and other locations. There is uncertainty here. It is enough to ask the local politicians in Gothenburg. They experience uncertainty when they are told that the negotiators have no mandate to deal with anything but rail traffic. Then it does not matter if the Minister says that, under the directive, negotiators can discuss what they want, unless it is interpreted that way in reality. Mr President, I would like to That is why I am back to the question: does the Minister not think there is a need for some sort of clarification that negotiators should also be able to discuss modern bus solutions? This should be made clear to those and other actors involved in the negotiations. Volvo should be able to offer the kind of modern solutions needed in Gothenburg in competition with others.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-455	Mr President, I would like to It may perhaps be appropriate to remind you that Sweden's negotiations, within the framework of its mission dealing with measures in the metropolitan regions, are not all that will happen in the development of public transport solutions in our large cities. The main responsibility for public transport supply lies with regional public transport authorities, municipalities and regions. This means that Sweden's negotiations also offer the state to play a role in the investments that need to be made in efficient public transport solutions. There, the directive is clear that investment should contribute to increased housing construction. Since the directive does not contain any restrictions on the type of public transport solutions to be negotiated, there is no need to identify the solutions to be negotiated. The mandate is open, and I assume that all parties involved in the negotiation are pushing them in such a way as to highlight the stones that need to be lifted and negotiated to a solution that will be the best and most cost-effective and that will bring the greatest benefit to the money invested. In this context, I can mention that this is only part of the efforts that need to be made in infrastructure and in public transport solutions in large cities. The idea from Sweden's negotiation has been that if the state is involved and makes an effort in investments in tracks, which are generally very costly, resources are also released for other types of solutions that are not quite as investment-heavy. If this is then to be the outcome of the hearing, the parties to the hearing may find out. Since there are no restrictions in the assignment to the hearing, there is also no reason to change the assignment to say that there are no restrictions. So, as I said, it does not.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-459	Mr President, I would like to Once again, it is true that the directive does not exclude anything. But the reality is that it is interpreted in such a way that it should be rail-bound traffic and that modern bus systems are not taken up in this type of negotiations. The negotiators bid to the municipalities. In Gothenburg it is a tram and cable car, but not a BLT system. Municipal representatives of different parties say that they believe in modern bus systems for the future. Then there is a problem in which I think the government should clarify this. We can probably agree that this could be an exciting solution for Gothenburg or for other cities. Then we need clarification. The negotiators refer in their document dated 8 February to, among other things, modern bus systems and say that they can be handled in national plans and county plans. As the Minister rightly says, this is not everything and all the efforts. The Swedish negotiations will now take a concerted approach, and the negotiators interpret the Minister's and Government's directives in such a way that modern bus systems are not included. There is an important industry in Gothenburg and a political desire to discuss this issue. Then we should make it clear that this issue can be discussed and put on the table. Shouldn't that be decent?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-463	Mr President, I would like to There is an incredible amount to do when it comes to developing exciting new public transport solutions. Some of them are located in Gothenburg and elsewhere, both in Sweden and in the world. The cableway feels a bit tickling, if you can make such a thing work in a sufficiently powerful way. BLT systems exist in other parts of the world, and they work very well. The stombus system that has existed in Gothenburg for several years is a step in this direction – even if you don't always drive in your own bus streets. Of course, we will use all the possibilities available to develop public transport so that it becomes capable, attractive, reliable and a good complement to other modes of transport. Then we can have an increased housing construction and better functioning cities in Sweden. In this, the state should of course also be involved in the manner expressed in the assignment of the Swedish negotiation. I would just like to remind you that the directives on which Sweden is working were issued by the previous government, and we have made no changes to them. If it turns out that this is not just the negotiating offer, but also that in the further discussion there are some views on what mandates they have or do not have, I am, of course, prepared to review the mandate. But at present there is an offer from the negotiators, and – as I understand it – there is no answer to the counteroffer that the municipalities will then present. At present, therefore, there is no need for clarification. The mandate is quite open, and I think it is very good. Then you can find the best solutions based on local conditions.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-468	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me a number of questions about how the government views and acts in the work of ICAO, the United Nations Aviation Organisation, to reduce the climate impact of aviation. For the government, it is obvious that international aviation will contribute to the temperature targets contained in the Paris Agreement. Sweden and other EU countries have also been driving the ICAO for many years to limit the climate impact of international aviation. It is therefore very gratifying that the ICAO Environment Committee decided in February this year on a CO2 standard that imposes technical requirements on newly produced aircraft from 2020. This can also mean new innovations and new jobs in the aviation industry. However, continued decisions and efforts are needed for international aviation to assume its climate responsibility. The next is the fact that the ICAO, at the autumn General Assembly, is able to take a decision on the introduction of a global market-based instrument that regulates the climate impact of international aviation. In the preparatory work under way, Sweden is an active party, both within ICAO and within the EU. The government will continue to be active and work for an ambitious decision at the General Assembly, which means that international aviation contributes to keeping the global temperature increase well below two degrees. The Government is also working to ensure that the final agreement contains a text that will evaluate the system in the future and, if necessary, tighten it up. With regard to Johan Hultberg's question on possible changes to the EU ETS, I believe that the issue is too early. I think it is better that we concentrate on achieving the best possible decision at the ICAO General Assembly this autumn.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-472	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it is good if the Minister and the Government share my view and the Moderates' view that the climate impact of aviation is best influenced and tackled through international cooperation and common instruments, preferably global but otherwise, for example, EU-wide. The fact that we have in place instruments that reduce the climate impact of global aviation is very important because aviation emissions are increasing very rapidly and bear an increasing share of the responsibility for global warming. Still, Mr President, it is mainly industrial emissions, for example from electricity and heat production, which account for climate emissions, but aviation emissions are increasing. According to the organisation Air Transport Action Group, ATA G, aviation caused emissions of around 700 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2013. This represents about 2% of global emissions. But the climate impact of aviation is actually greater than that, because combustion at high altitude genes is an enhanced climate effect. It's a little hard to say exactly how much impact is. We still know too little about, for example, how nitric oxide particles and condensing strips affect. Often it is said that the climate impact of aviation is about double that of emissions. Already today, the climate impact of aviation is significant, but what is most worrying is that aviation emissions are increasing so rapidly. According to forecasts by ICAO, the United Nations Aviation Organisation, global aviation emissions will increase between 300 and 700% by 2050 compared to 2005 levels. It really underlines the need to come forward in the negotiations so that we can put in place good instruments that seriously enable us to reduce global emissions from aviation. As the Minister points out in his reply, it is good that a decision has now been taken in the ICAO Environment Committee on a CO2 standard requiring new aircraft to be put into service by 2020. As I write in my interpellation, this is good, but it is still completely inadequate. That is why I asked the Minister in my interpellation how the government is working to enable ICAO to take decisions at its General Assembly this autumn on more powerful proposals. Unfortunately, Mr President, the Minister did not really answer that question more than saying that Sweden is an active party within ICAO and the EU. But I wonder how. How concrete is Sweden working to enable ICAO to decide at the General Assembly this autumn on a much more ambitious system than just rules for new aircraft? Such an agreement is not enough, although it is welcome. Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by asking the Minister for Infrastructure: in exactly what way is Sweden pushing for Sweden and the EU to be a strong voice in the ICAO negotiations?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-478	Mr President, I would like to We can fully agree that it is not enough to lay down rules on how new aircraft should be designed, but we need to do much more. We need to develop more opportunities for alternative fuels, although it does not fully solve the problem of CO2 emissions or the high-level emissions mentioned in the discussion. It is still about internal combustion engines, and it is still combustion that is taking place, which means that we have a climate impact. Nevertheless, moving from fossil fuels to alternative biofuels for aviation is of course an important step. There is work going on, but so far the alternatives are very expensive, and access globally is very small. Development needs to be driven, of course. In this context, it is obviously important to design different types of systems that drive development and make it more profitable for airlines to choose a less climate impact fuel, for example. But it's also about working more with green approaches and the shortest route. There is quite a lot that can be done to reduce overall emissions from aviation. The new aircraft produced today have a significantly lower climate impact than older models, so of course it is important to push for better engines and lower weights and thus also reduced emissions. But you have to have instruments to do that. The Government's ambition is to press ahead at European level and within the framework of ICAO's work to the extent that we can achieve the market-based emissions trading that is absolutely necessary. We are quite in agreement within the EU on that need. But the problem is that there are some other countries that are not as enthusiastic about that possibility. I think it is crucial that we have global regulations governing the climate impact of aviation. If we are to have an effect on the climate and the rise in temperature, it is not enough for a few countries to have regulations, but we need to have global rules. But it is also about the fact that we obviously do not want regulations that reduce neither Swedish nor European aviation's competitiveness in the global market. Therefore, our first option is to continue working towards ICAO agreeing a market-based emission agreement this autumn. Although this means that we may have to lie down at a lower level of ambition than we would have liked, it will be a rewarding and a take, a compromise. I very much hope that at least something will be achieved, because something is better than nothing in this area.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-483	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the somewhat more developed answer. I believe that we agree in many respects that a broad range of measures is needed to address the climate impact of aviation. It is not enough just to work with better and newer engines. It is not enough just to work on the fuel issue or to create smarter routes and green approaches, but it requires all this and to some extent behavioural changes for us as consumers and travellers. As I understand it, the ICAO is currently negotiating a system that will in some way force airlines to compensate for emissions that exceed carbon neutral growth by 2020. In this case, it starts at a fairly high level with continued rising emissions by 2020, and then only compensates down to a neutral level in relation to the figure for 2020. That in itself is an inadequate ambition, although I share the Minister's view that the most important thing after all is for us to have a global system – if that is what we fully agree with. There is hardly any area so exposed to international competition that is so cross-border in nature as air transport. It is quite clear that we need first and foremost to seek international answers and solutions. In this area too, Mr President, the EU has gone ahead. We already have a market-based control system in the EU to reduce the climate impact of aviation in the form of our emissions trading system. Today, however, flights that take off or land elsewhere than within the Union are excluded, and this exception has come about precisely because a process has been launched in ICAO to negotiate a global system. The condition for the EU has been that we have this derogation until there is a global system in place that really leads to emissions reductions. I would really like to stress the importance of the government and Sweden not taking up the somewhat passive position that I had the impression that the Minister had in her first speech, where she spoke of waiting for the outcome of the negotiations before discussing whether or not the derogation should remain. I think it is absolutely clear that the derogation must be used as a tool in the negotiations. Sweden and Europe must say to the other ICAO negotiating parties: you cannot count on this exception unless we can agree on a global system. It must be an obvious tool in the negotiations and is probably one of the few tools that I think bites. Mr President, I would like to It is not easy to follow the ICAO negotiations as outsiders. However, I understand that one of the key issues is the division of responsibilities between traditional developed countries, such as Sweden and other rich countries, which have had good prosperity for a long time, and the now fast-growing economies and developing countries, which do not think it reasonable to make the same demands on their countries as on the old rich world. How does the Minister view this discussion? What's the government's position there? Is it possible to consider differentiated requirements? Is it reasonable for India and China to continue to increase their emissions beyond 2020? What is Sweden's view and the EU's overall view on this issue?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-488	Mr President, I would like to With regard to climate negotiations in general, we have had the view that there must be some differentiation of the responsibilities placed on different countries according to their ability to meet different requirements. We, as rich developed countries, of course have a slightly greater responsibility than developing countries. Given our level of life and our global footprint, we also have more to do per capita than the developing countries have. It is, of course, reasonable for the development of prosperity to take place in those countries that have not had it in the same way as we have. That is the principle on which I am based in these negotiations as well. I would like to emphasise once again that it is probably important to keep a rather open door to what will be the outcome of the negotiations before and during the General Assembly this autumn, because it is so important to reach an agreement at global level at all. There is a need for a fairly transparent negotiating mandate for those sitting there. Sweden's ambition must really be that we get an international regulatory framework in place. It is unlikely that it will be as ambitious as we wish. Of course, if we had had world domination ourselves, we would have gone much further and faster. However, this type of negotiation seeks consensus, which, of course, does not make it easier. The countries have very different levels of ambition. That is why I think it is important that we do not make any ultimative demands or adopt an ultimative approach in advance, but really take part in the discussions in order to get as far as possible. The main objective must be to reach an agreement at all.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-491	Mr President, I would like to I think it is wise to give the representatives who are negotiating on behalf of Sweden and the European Union a fairly transparent mandate. It is the outcome of the negotiations that is absolutely the most important thing. I myself have been in place at a couple of climate negotiations and know that you do not achieve success by having too locked positions. It's a giving and taking. I share the view that the most important thing is for us to have an agreement that will finally allow us to get the means for air transport in place. They've been totally missing. There are even international agreements to avoid taxing aviation fuel, which would have been the most accurate and best way to reduce the climate impact of aviation; it simply puts a price on emissions. But now we are where we are, and these negotiations are very important. Just as it is good to give an open mandate in the negotiations, a clear instruction to use the EU ETS as an important tool in the negotiations must also be given. I also think it is extremely important for Sweden and the European Union to succeed in what the Minister last mentioned in his first speech, that is to say, the agreement contains wording for the agreement to be evaluated and tightened up. I might think that a reasonable model would have been to look at the outcome of the climate negotiations in Paris, where the agreement says that every five years we should review the ambitions of the parties in order to constantly try to have a process that turns up the level of ambition. I hope that Sweden and the EU will be able to drive this. I'd like the Minister to sign off on that. There has been an agreement since 2012 that Member States should voluntarily submit action plans to ICAO. The Swedish Transport Agency submitted one on behalf of Sweden last year. I am curious, Mr President, to hear what action the Minister thinks is most important in that action plan and how the work is progressing.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-496	Mr President, I would like to On the last question, I must be responsible for the answer, because I have not taken note of that action plan. But of course I will. Otherwise, I would like to emphasise the need for both Sweden and the EU as a whole to push forward on these issues. It's extremely important. Even if the Paris Agreement did not cover aviation, which is regrettable, I would say that we can lean on the Paris Agreement in a slightly different way here. It is a very clear position and conditioning for the international community in dealing with the climate threat and should reasonably also be able to be used as a lever in the ICAO negotiations. For the government, Sweden will continue to play a driving and very active role in the negotiations that are ongoing at international level. It is important that we take that role very clearly in the field of maritime transport, in the area of aviation and, in fact, in all the areas where we see that we can do so. We intend to do so on this issue too.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-499	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I intend to initiate a legal definition for car pool cars and when such a proposal could be expected. Johan Hultberg has also asked if I am prepared to work for municipalities to have better tools, for example in the form of a right to charge emission differentiated parking fees, to speed up the conversion and reduce the emissions of the transport sector. I share Johan Hultberg's view that it is important to reduce the emissions of the transport sector. In order to achieve reduced emissions, we need, among other things, to switch the vehicle fleet from fossil fuels. The government is therefore actively working with a wide range of measures. For example, the government has taken several initiatives to promote environmental cars, including the investigation into a Swedish bonus – malus system to promote clean cars as well as climate investment, the so-called climate category, where investments are made in e.g. charging infrastructure for electric cars. The Government has also recently commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to propose how current environmental zone regulations can be developed in order to better contribute to the achievement of environmental quality objectives and transport policy objectives. The Swedish Transport Agency will, among other things, investigate how environmental zones can be used to reward silent and emission-free vehicles. The assignment shall be presented by 30 September 2016. Increased use of car pools is a possible measure to reduce congestion and emissions, especially in our big cities. The Ministry of Industry has also drawn attention to the fact that there is currently no legal definition of the concept of a car pool car, which may currently constitute an obstacle to the creation of adapted legislation.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-505	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, even if, in all honesty, it is against a little. The answer given by the Minister was far from what I had hoped for, in fact also far from what I had thought. I asked, among other things, a direct question as to whether the government intends to initiate a statutory definition for car pool cars and when such a proposal might come here to Parliament. Now the Minister replies that the Ministry of Industry has been alerted to the lack of a legal definition at the moment, which could constitute an obstacle to the creation of adapted legislation. Mr President, I would like to I am disappointed by the Minister's answer, I must say. This is not a new issue and not a new problem, but it is well known and has been discussed for years. I am the first to say that I find it regrettable that the Alliance Government did not have time to make such a proposal during our time. However, according to the Minister's reply, the Government does not intend to return to Parliament with a draft definition, and I find that remarkable. But I'm giving the minister one more chance. Will the government initiate a statutory definition for car pool cars? Mr President, I would like to For those who have not encountered this question before, it may seem somewhat trivial. But it really isn't. If you, like me and the Moderates, want to support the use of car pools and create better conditions for them, a definition is important. This is because a definition is required, among other things, for municipalities to be able to point out specific street ground for parking only for car pool cars. Mr President, I would like to Before we get involved in a discussion about exactly how to make car pools easier, there is reason to mention a few words about why it is important. Around one third of Sweden's greenhouse gas emissions come from the transport sector. During the time of the Alliance, a great deal of positive things happened in this area. Finally, we got a move on the transformation of the Swedish vehicle fleet. We saw an environmental car boom, that the use of biofuels increased and that for the first time emissions from private cars were below 1990 levels. Mr President, I would like to It is still the case that the road to the vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet set up by the Alliance in 2030 is very long. We have to do a great deal more. One step along the way is to make it easier for more car pools. Why? Because studies and research have clearly shown that car pools contribute both to declining emissions and to less congestion. This is a way to hit two birds with one stone. We have a growing problem in our growing cities with congestion, such as here in Stockholm and in the Minister's hometown of Gothenburg. Then car pools can be an important part. Mr President, I would like to I still have to ask the Minister: what are the government's ambitions regarding car pools? Do you want to create better conditions for car pools to be part of the construction of sustainable cities and part of the solution to the climate challenge? We see that the lack of definition is a major obstacle. The City of Gothenburg, the Minister's municipality of residence, has for many years worked to have the opportunity to reserve parking spaces for car pools but has gone bet because there is no definition. Will the government return to Parliament with such a proposal?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-514	Mr President, I would like to I note that we have not yet had eight years to deliver on this issue. I'm sure we'll have reason to come back. This is exactly what Johan Hultberg says. It is an important issue to have a definition. As in the previous interpellation debate, it is about taking action in a wide range of areas and not believing that action in just one or another spectrum will produce results. It is important to find very many different carrots and whips, legislation, regulations and opportunities for us to change the transport sector, and it needs to go quite quickly. As far as car pools are concerned, there are quite a few types of car pools. This makes it difficult to find a definition that suits everyone. There are companies that conduct it as a business. There are small non-profit associations and a wide range of types of car co-use. What can be said is that car pool cars have the advantage of being more used, that is, they do not stand still as much of the time. This also means that they do not really have the same need for parking spaces. It is also possible to renew the car park a little more often if there are more people who represent the investment, and so on. It also provides opportunities to contribute to reduced congestion. Similarly, it is important to be able to have a regulatory framework that facilitates all measures that contribute to reduced climate impact and reduced environmental impact from other aspects as well. This is not just a question of climate change. There are emissions of particles, sulphur and a lot of other things that also need to be addressed. A few years ago this was being worked on quite intensively. There were a number of municipalities that introduced free parking for environmental cars. Since then it has not proved to be legal, but it was still in use for several years. Unfortunately, what was seen was a large increase in the number of environmentally classed cars. But in the end, the cities were almost clogged because in every ten-minute parking there were environmental cars for quite a long time. In the city centres, car traffic may generally not be so desirable. In proposing measures, it is important to take measures that contribute to both reduced congestion and reduced climate impact.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-521	Mr President, I would like to It is quite true that, in this area too, we need a plethora of measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector, and in this case, above all, from private carism, which we are now debating. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I can see that the current government is currently pursuing a policy that takes us further from than closer to the objective of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. The government's policy has led to 20 000 SEK being more expensive since the end of the year to buy charging hybrids, that it is more expensive to have an environmental car as a company car and that it is also more expensive to refuel renewable fuels at the gas station. Now, just today, the government has realised that the increase in taxes on ethanol and biodiesel that it carried out last autumn was wrong and that it is backing away from it. Unfortunately, that mistake will only be corrected in August according to the Government's proposal, which is unfortunate. It is also difficult to understand why it should take so long. We are now seeing the total collapse of the biofuels market due to government tax policy. That is why the government really needs to take urgent action on this issue. Mr President, I would like to I'm going back to the car pools. It is very important to create good conditions for car pools. They help to improve air quality in our cities thanks to the fact that car pools generally use better and newer engines and not infrequently electric or charging hybrids. The statistics are clear that car pool cars replace a large number of ordinary cars. Some studies say that a car pool car replaces as many as 30 cars. I think that's an exaggeration. The Swedish Transport Administration usually tells us that a car pool car replaces at least five cars. I think that is a more accurate assessment. The Finnish Transport Agency has also calculated the CO2 savings of a car pool car and concluded that on average it is about half a tonne. It is thanks to the fact that car pool cars are usually newer, better and more energy efficient. But it is also because the use of car pool leads me as a motorist to plan my driving better. I may take some less spontaneous car rides and to a greater extent bikes or ride collectively. This simply leads to a reduction in driving and thus to lower emissions. I and the Moderates believe that car pools are an important tool in the work for more sustainable cities, lower climate emissions and also for better air quality. Mr President, I would like to In my interpellation, I also raise the issue of differentiated parking fees. On that point, the Minister somewhat problematized in his second speech. She said there was trouble when the municipalities allowed environmental cars to stand on the ten-minute parking lot. Me and the Moderates believe that we should show confidence in Sweden's municipal politicians. Sweden's 290 municipalities have different conditions. It is better that we delegate the decision-making power to the municipalities to design wise and good rules. Maybe it was a bad idea to let environmental cars set up on ten-minute parking. But what I highlight in my interpellation is an opportunity to charge environmentally differentiated parking fees. I think that would have been an important tool. I hope the government is prepared to give the municipalities that tool. They miss it today. I see that my colleague, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, has now entered the Chamber. He's from Gotland. It is a municipality that has tried to introduce environmentally differentiated parking facilities. Unfortunately, however, they have been rejected because it is contrary to the legislation. I hope that the Minister for Infrastructure and the Government will be prepared to remedy this legislation so that it will be possible for municipalities to pursue an active policy of creating sustainable cities and transport systems with a lower climate impact.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-533	Mr President, I would like to The taxation of alternative fuels was not part of the government's tax policy in this area, which I believe Johan Hultberg is well aware of. The EU considered that it was distortive to have a more favourable taxation on biofuels than on fossil fuels. Speaking of the previous discussion on the EU and international regulations, this is an area where the rules governing the EU acquis need to be reviewed in this respect. We also want to be able to manage with taxes and other types of economic instruments. It would be extremely unfortunate if, on the one hand, the European Union were to present a requirement for Member States to develop an expansion strategy for alternative fuels and, on the other hand, to make it impossible for Member States to increase the market conditions for these fuels with financial incentives. So I think we are in complete agreement here. It is a good thing that we have now had the opportunity to do at least for a period of time with that tax. I also hope that we will have a more long-term approach within the European Union in order for it to be dealt with in this way, so that the Member States will have that freedom. As far as car pools are concerned, it is not prohibited to have car pool cars today. Car pools are also increasing. I agree that it would make it easier to get a clearer definition of what an environmental car is and how to legally view it in order to steer different types of benefits towards car pool cars. However, it is by no means crucial for the development to continue. There has been a development, and there will certainly continue to be a development. I believe, like Johan Hultberg, that our way of using the car is changing, especially in our larger cities. There, more and more people see that they don't need a car every day. You ride a bus or a subway or a bicycle, or whatever you do, to work. Then you may need a car on the weekend when going shopping or visiting relatives. Then you also don't need to own a car in the same way. We can expect that this development will continue, especially if we extend public transport systems even further, make it easier and safer to cycle and take a wide range of other measures. Then it is doubtful whether we should at the same time make it easier to use the car in our city centres. There is a need to reduce the car's climate impact where the car is absolutely necessary, i.e. especially in sparsely populated areas. But in the city centres it is not just a climate problem. There is an environmental problem in other ways, i.e. congestion and road safety problems. Then you could use street land in a much better way than parking spaces. In this respect, I think you need to work with several different instruments to get more liveable cities – in pure Swedish. You may need to work in a little different ways than to simplify for cars to park in the city.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-541	Mr President, I would like to It's about making it easier for car pools to park, at the expense of ordinary cars. We know that a car pool car usually replaces at least five ordinary cars. Thus it leads to less congestion here in Stockholm, Gothenburg or Malmö and other fast growing cities such as my own, Europe's greenest city Växjö. I think this is an important issue and something on which the government should act. The Minister defended himself a little in his first speech that the government has not had eight years to return to Parliament with a definition. That's exactly right. But the government has a lot of material on its table, thanks to the initiatives taken by the Alliance Government. We know that the FFF investigation, Fossil Freedom on the Move, contains ideas on how to facilitate car pools. Unfortunately, it often gets stuck because of the lack of a definition. If we are to move forward with facilitating parking or changing tax rules, preferential taxation and all sorts of things, we need a definition in order to know which cars we want to facilitate. What is a car pool car, as the Minister says, is not entirely clear. A definition is therefore needed. We see a rapid development in this area, in the collaborative economy, with Uber and various forms of car sharing services and car sharing. Where does the line go between a car pool and me and the minister simply settle for carpooling? It's not entirely self-evident. A definition is needed. The government must take such an initiative. Mr President, I would like to We have a lot of balls in the air. As far as the tax is concerned, it was not the EU that told Sweden to increase the tax. It was the Government's interpretation of State aid rules that led to proposals being made. That interpretation was wrong. I'm glad the government crawls to the cross and admits its mistake. I am sorry to say that this has had devastating consequences. I call on the government to try to act more quickly than to wait for a tax change to August. We see that the fuel market is collapsing.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-547	Mr President, I would like to We have already noted the need for a wide range of measures in this area. The government also takes many different measures. We spend 1.2 billion more per year on railway maintenance plus another 100 million per year on rail in rural areas. This enables more people to rely on trains to arrive on time. This in turn makes commuting by train more attractive. We have introduced urban environment agreements where the state can co-finance public transport solutions, which also contributes to increased housing construction. In Sweden, as has been mentioned earlier, public transport solutions are being negotiated in our metropolitan regions. We have a new and somewhat sharper environmental car definition that means that the price of electric cars, which has previously been high, has actually come down a bit. Then more people will have the opportunity to ask for what is the purest – so far anyway – form of environmental car. We're investigating road wear taxes. And we're investigating bonus-malus systems. We have a wide range of measures to achieve overall progress towards a better climate-friendly vehicle fleet in Sweden. Added to that is the climate initiative called Climate Action. There, municipalities, among other things, can receive support to build more charging stations for electric cars. So there is a great deal going on in this area. I think we will have to do even more. Parking and car pool cars are, of course, part of that work. We are really going to take stock of each area in order for us to have zero fossil emissions in Sweden by 2050.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-553	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me whether I intend in any way to enable commercial traffic or testing operations with lorries weighing about 90 tonnes. Erik Ottoson has also asked me which parts of the business community can, if I can imagine a testing operation with trucks of about 90 tonnes, be able to participate in and contribute to that testing activity, and under what conditions. In the case of trucks with a total weight of 90 tonnes, the government has no plans to allow these generally on the public road network. The government has already decided to increase the permissible total weight from 60 to 64 tonnes, and the issue of establishing a 74-tonne load class for trucks is now being prepared in the Government Office. The government has previously stated that we are generally in favour of allowing heavier trucks, provided that this leads to less environmental and climate impact, more efficient transport and benefits for the business community and that the costs of adapting the infrastructure are related to the increased social benefits. The Government's ambition is to reduce the environmental impact of the transport sector, and the Government wants to see a shift of long-distance transport, including freight, from road to rail and shipping. Test operations are currently under way with heavier and longer vehicles. Most of the tests have so far been for transport of round timber. However, vehicles carrying piece goods, chips, paper and steel are also included in the tests. These tests are part of the so-called HCT programme, which is a research and innovation programme conducted in broad collaboration between Trafikverket, the Swedish Transport Agency, industry and academia. Each partner in the cooperation is part of the capacity and purpose of its own activities.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-558	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for your answer. The question of heavier trucks is something that has been a bit of a ping-pong game in politics, where we tend to blame each other for being slow. Now it seems to me that we still have some sort of target image in sight in relation to 74 tonnes – at last, one might add, Mr President. What the interpellation is from is a conversation that I had earlier this year with an owner of a sawmill in Norrbotten who described to me that in a pretty good way one could create more environmental efficiency and fewer fossil emissions in their transport if one had to increase the efficiency of their truck operations. I then started sneezing a little bit into that and realized quite quickly that a very large part of the truck transport we have in this country goes from point A to point B, back and forth, according to a clearly pre-defined route. We are talking about shuttle traffic rather than the general traffic that I think many people think about when thinking about truck transport. This type of traffic does not compete in any way with the railways, because it is not uncommon for this type of traffic to go from an industrial plant to a transhipment station and then on a rail way out into the country or, for example, to a port for transhipment in order to proceed with shipping. I would like the Government to develop a little bit of its thoughts and positions on the question of allowing even heavier vehicles, perhaps not generally on the Swedish railways, but perhaps to have some kind of licensing process for specific routes and special purposes on those routes, so that we can make better use of the truck traffic that we must have after all. There's not a railroad everywhere in this country. There are large parts of the country that do not have the rail supply that we are spoiled with in the metropolitan regions. In any case, very few industries have tracks all the way into the industrial area and therefore do not need any truck transport from production to onward transport by rail or, for that matter, by sea. Would it be possible, according to the government's view, to create a licensing process to grant this authorisation to traders and businesses? This could contribute to meeting the climate targets.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-564	Mr President, I would like to There are currently no government plans to allow 90-ton trucks on our roads. On the other hand, a preparatory work is under way to establish a new class of 74 tonnes of bearing capacity, which we have discussed many times, as we have said. There is also a 90-tonne testing operation. It is reasonable to wait for the results of these tests to see if you should possibly go further and if so, if you can imagine such a model as Erik Ottosson requests. But then I think we need to do exactly what I say in my interpellation response, that is to say, to put the benefit that can be derived from such a permit against the wear and tear that this type of transport would give rise to. It is not possible to respond to this at present without having examined both what this type of heavy goods transport brings for wear and tear and what kind of bearing capacity measures would be needed to allow such a procedure. That question is too early. On the other hand, I am very much looking forward to seeing the results of the testing activities and indications as to whether this is a way forward or not. There will not be any general permit to drive 90-tonsekipage on the roads in Sweden, but in that case it would be certain types of very specific transport that could be considered. But first let's wait for what is found in the test operations. Then, in all fairness, it must be said that this is not just about allowing heavier and heavier vehicles, but also about changing the fleet of vehicles that manage these transports. It can have a huge impact on not least climate emissions by moving from conventional fuels to biofuels. In the long run, there may also be the possibility of developing other types of fuel for this particular type of transport that runs between two end points in some form of shuttle traffic. It is also not just about climate impact, it is also about road safety and how quickly you can stop such a combination on narrow roads where you can get meetings. Before you can answer the question, you need to make a proper evaluation of the test activities and, if necessary, investigate further the consequences of such a change.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-569	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for the developed answer! I will begin with the question of environmental impact. Reducing the number of vehicles and allowing a heavier load per vehicle is in itself something that improves the conditions for reducing CO2 emissions per tonne transported because you only need one vehicle. Of course there will then be a small margin increase per vehicle, but you will get a higher efficiency in your transport if you have a vehicle that transports more. This not only creates more efficiency, it also creates better use of staff. Instead of driving three trucks weighing 60 tons, you can drive two trucks weighing 90 tons and thus also reduce your maintenance and staff costs. When it comes to wear and tear on the road and road safety, it depends on the construction of the combination. The government, which decides on regulations, has the ability to impose technical requirements so that road safety is met and that there is no more wear and tear on the roads than it would have been otherwise. Mr President, I would like to Braking distances have to do with the amount of contact surface with the road versus the weight. So it has to do with the number of wheels and axles and not just with the importance. It also has to do with the quality of brakes. It is not the case that heavier trucks by definition have a longer braking distance. That's not correct, according to the laws of physics. Let me put the question to the Government, which nevertheless seems to have a fair positive attitude to this, even if she does not jump out of luck: could it be envisaged that, in the context of such a future activity, if one is interested in what fuel vehicles are on, also make demands on what kind of fuel such heavy goods vehicles would have to go on? We may then have to describe this, at least at an initial stage, as an exception to the usual rules that we have for our vehicles and then be able to make additional demands. I believe that there is a good chance of having a good dialogue with the business community on this issue, especially in the sparsely populated parts of our country. I am quite sure that this type of vehicle could mean greater efficiency. Seen the shop owner just outside Piteå who was in the rsprung to the interpellation could only go to driving the load of 90-ton trucks to meet its entire environmental objective. It is a great improvement in both environmental and business economic efficiency. My supplementary question to the Government will then be whether she would consider speeding up the process. This experiment has been going on for quite a long time. If the experiment has a good outcome, is she prepared to proceed with it without delay?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-577	Mr President, I would like to That's a bit what I was trying to tell you in my previous answer. Before we know more about what costs would be associated with such a change, it will be almost speculative to say whether or not to proceed. Let us first know how the test operations have turned out. It's not just about wear and tear. It's about wear and tear. In this case, the cost of ensuring the carrying capacity of a sufficient part of the road network needs to be set against the benefits that can be achieved with this compared to other measures that we can take in other parts of the transport system to achieve the climate benefit. Every time it is a question of making investments, it is a matter of cost-effectiveness, and it is reasonable to do so in this case too. That is why I am not prepared today to tell you whether or not we are going to move on with the issue of even heavier lorries. It depends on the assessment when one has evaluated the test activity and looks further at what could come out of such a change and puts the benefits of such a measure against the cost. We do not have an answer to these questions, and so I do not intend to point out any direction in this regard either.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-581	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government. Nevertheless, we agree fairly in Sweden's parliament and in politics in general that each mode of transport should bear its own costs. A part of such a permit process could be to go through if the load capacity on the route in question is so good that it allows such heavy vehicles. If it does not, it is not unreasonable that such a licensing process should result in a refusal or in an injunction that the undertaking or group of undertakings wishing to use the road section of that type of vehicle may participate in investing in bearing capacity enhancements on the roads or bridges in question. In my last speech, allow me to make a contribution to the Government. Given that there is a permit process in this way for this type of vehicle, bridges that do not meet the 90-tonne requirement but the 60-tonne requirement could be used as they are able to cope with two 60-ton vehicles meeting on the bridge. 60 plus 60 is 120, which is more than 90. If only one vehicle could be on the bridge at a time, then the permit would work perfectly well, and we could use our infrastructure without increasing costs. It's my message to the government. I hope that she is willing to take this with her and that together we can try to push for development in order to get an even more efficient truck traffic at places where we do not have shipping or rail that can take its place.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-585	Mr President, I would like to This interpellation debate was almost a kind of brainstorming to find fairly detailed solutions to the challenge we have, and of course I bring all the good ideas with me. We have major challenges ahead of us in changing the transport sector in order to become more sustainable socially, economically and not least from an environmental point of view. We have much more to do here. In the further work, it will be essential that we both take stock of a wide range of measures and that we are prepared to take decisions on many different things. This can range from regulation, legislation and restrictions to different types of carrots and incentive-building measures and to genuinely exploit the full range of measures to achieve the objectives. The question of the most effective means of achieving the objectives should reasonably be asked in this work. If it turns out that even heavier trucks are such a measure, I am definitely prepared to look further at it. But at present, as our discussion shows, there are a little too many question marks and a little too unclear to be able to take a clear stand for such a development. We will soon have a decision on a new weight limit of 74 tonnes. I think it's a good start. It will already mean a need for support measures. Let's see what it gives, and then we can possibly move on.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-589	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup has asked me whether I intend to extend or extend the consultation period for the focus base and to include the climate report as part of the entire focus base. Emma Wallrup has also asked me whether I intend to take measures to ensure that in 2030 the fossil-independent vehicle fleet should be a starting point for infrastructure planning in 2018 – 2029 and whether I share the view that reducing car traffic should be a starting point for infrastructure planning in 2018 – 2029. Finally, Emma Wallrup has asked me whether I intend to take any further steps with regard to infrastructure planning in 2018 – 2029 in view of the increased level of ambition of the climate agreement concluded in Paris. On 30 November 2015, Trafikverket reported its focus data for the long-term infrastructure planning for the planning period 2018 – 2029. A basic starting point for the Government's mission was that the infrastructure, as an essential part of the transport system, should be planned, developed and managed in order to achieve the overall transport policy objective and the equal function and consideration objectives. An important background to the mission was also the Government's goal that Sweden will have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020 and that at least 250 000 new homes will be built by 2020, the vision that Sweden will have no net greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and the Government's ambition to reduce the environmental impact of the transport sector. The Swedish Transport Administration has announced that the report Emma Wallrup is presenting is a knowledge base in which all relevant parts are incorporated into the focus base, which has been submitted to the Government. The Government does not intend to extend or extend the consultation period for the focus base. The government has taken a position that Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries and that Sweden will have a fossil-free vehicle fleet. My firm view is that the focus must be on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is also important to give priority to measures that promote walking, cycling and public transport, as well as the transfer of freight to rail and maritime transport. Infrastructure planning is a tool for reducing the climate impact of the transport system. The government implements and plans to implement a variety of other measures. By way of example, I can mention studies on road wear tax and bonuses – malus systems, support for roll-out of charging infrastructure and a national bicycle strategy.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-599	All these measures can help to tackle the reduction of emissions in the transport sector and the reduction of climate impact.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-600	Mr President, I would like to The orientation document for transport infrastructure planning 2018 – 2029 has been consulted. The plan has an important role to play in the allocation of appropriations to, inter alia, rail and road. The basis is developed by the Swedish Transport Administration, following instructions from the Government, and forms the basis for the upcoming infrastructure bill, which will be decided by the Riksdag. This was the part of the base that was removed and that was goal-driven and not forecast-driven. It is incredibly important that we work with target management if we are to achieve the climate goals. The report was published just a few days before the end of the consultation period on 29 February this year. This is outrageous because not all the referral bodies were able to take part in this report, which was targeted. This concerns me, and I wonder how the government views climate targets and the enormous challenge that we are facing. It is remarkable that such a weak subject is withheld until the week before the end of the consultation period. In this way, we cannot work if we are to achieve the climate targets. We have never faced a greater challenge. New figures from NASA show that already in February we had plus 1.6 degrees on average in the world. It's really serious. We now see weather events occurring around the world causing fires, floods and other weather disasters. We have enormous challenges ahead of us, and we must take this very seriously. This is a situation when the Ministry of Industry, which is responsible for producing the data, must wake up and not continue to invest in more road instead of rail in Sweden. There is a term for this that more road results in more car traffic. It's called induced traffic in research terms, and it's because scientists know that when you build more roads, more cars come on the roads. That's why it's not enough for us to have a bonus – Malus system and a little extra investment in railway maintenance. We have an organisation that brings together all major companies in Sweden. They say that if the railroad doesn't work, they can't export their goods. The level we are now at in railway maintenance is better than what the bourgeoisie had, but it is far from good. There is a shortage of 2 billion or something to achieve the capacity that we need to see in order to ensure that railways do not have to be shut down around Sweden, as the promotion of railways now warns. This is not enough. We must take a strong stance if we are to meet the climate challenge. It stands and weighs if we are to have a civilization at all. Then it is remarkable that a report that is the only report that is targeted and that was produced on the third issue in the Government's orientation paper to the Finnish Transport Administration is removed. The question was to look at both forecasts and the instruments needed to achieve the climate targets. It was no more goal-driven than that. Yet the government cannot accept the report, especially the Ministry of Industry, which is now coming out in the media. This isn't a playhouse. This is serious. We have an entire planet to take responsibility for.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-612	Mr President, I would like to I share Emma Wallrup's view that we have a great responsibility and that we have a planet to take care of. I would therefore have liked the debate to have been about which measures are most effective, what we really need to do and how we redesign the transport system in a way that enables us to achieve the overall objectives of transport policy on accessibility, the government's goal of jobs across the country and increased housing construction while reaching the climate targets. Instead, we are now receiving a debate on a sub-report that the Swedish Transport Administration has had as part of its knowledge acquisition for the purpose of writing a specialization basis for the Government's planning. I find that very boring. I can mention that referral bodies have contacted the Ministry of Industry and wanted to submit comments after they had read the report, which is therefore not – I would like to emphasise – part of the Swedish Transport Administration's report to the Government. The Finnish Transport Agency has of course used a variety of sources to support the preparation of the report to the Government. The report that is rewritten in the interpellation has been such a part of Trafikverket's documentation. It has therefore not come in as an independent report to the Government, but has been a work material within the Swedish Transport Administration. This means that it has not been referred at all. The consultation bodies that have contacted the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry and wished to comment have received the answer that it is perfectly possible to do so after the period of referral has expired. Then you can submit so-called additional comments. If the consultation bodies have other views, it is quite possible to submit them, but we will not extend the consultation period. Now the report has been discussed for a long time, and there has been an extensive discussion about form but very little about content. It can be noted that the Government has a clear objective in its mission to the Finnish Transport Agency, namely to take into account the target of zero net greenhouse gas emissions in 2050. It is clearly stated in the mission. It can also be noted that Trafikverket addresses these issues in the focus base but notes that infrastructure planning and construction are a fairly small part of the response to the challenge, i.e. reaching a sustainable society and zero net emissions of climate gases by 2050. It will require completely different measures to get there. It can also be said that reducing car traffic can be an important instrument in some parts of our country. But we also have large parts of Sweden where the car is very much a prerequisite for both work and leisure and freedom for people. Then perhaps we should focus on emissions, not people who depend on the car in their everyday lives.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-621	Mr President, I would like to I am very upset about what I hear from Anna Johansson here, because she listens to the wrong parts of the data. Some point out that urban car traffic must be reduced by 48% if we are to meet the objective of a fossil-free fleet by 2030. This means that we are reducing 80%, not 100%. We have to cope with 48% because technology development is not going to get us all the way, according to professional officials at the Finnish Transport Administration. Rail transport must increase by 52%. We have not seen that such priorities have been set during the bourgeois term of office, precisely, but priority has been given to road before rail. There are many in Sweden who are very disappointed by this, among others the largest companies that are gathered in the Swedish Business Transport Council. I find it remarkable that you want to close your eyes to the content of the report, Anna Johansson, because that is what you are replying to me. I do not want to see that after this term of office we have continued to build more road than rail or that we have continued to build so much road that the Finnish Transport Agency's own climate targets are not met, as happened last term of office according to studies. This is terribly important. I am not here to fight for a reason that is not there, but I am here to speak in the speaker's chair right now because I am protecting our climate and that Sweden should go ahead. As a small country in the world, all we can do is go ahead and show that it is possible. We have potential, we have welfare and we have resources, bioenergy and more. Even Sweden is not able to release the automotive industry with its hand. I think it might be in this-- I don't know. In any case, we must reverse developments. We have to listen to the term that scientists are highlighting: induced traffic, so that when you build more roads, there will be more cars on these roads. According to Trafikverket's own forecasts and studies and according to many of the work's officials that I have talked to myself, we will not achieve our climate goals if we build more road. Then I find it remarkable that the climate report is not taken seriously. After all, the report was an answer to a question from the government, an answer to the question: if we have the forecasts we have but are still going to reach the climate targets, what instruments do we need to have in place to achieve the goals of a fossil-free vehicle fleet by 2030? And so the report is removed, and you, Anna Johansson, are still answering me on a completely different basis, as if this basis were not essential, even though it was produced on the basis of the question from the government. You must take this seriously and, above all, talk to the Ministry of Industry about it, because that is where the biggest problem lies. Creating jobs in Sweden in a sustainable way is done through more rail and more public transport. Infrastructure and transport are the foundations of the economy, and if you do not build this in a sustainable way, you will have problems. Then we will exceed climate limits when we build a strong economy. But we can build a strong economy if we invest in rail. Is that so hard to understand? You can talk to the Swedish Industry Transport Council, which brings together the largest companies in Sweden. Even they say that. Why, then, cannot the Social Democrats listen, especially the Ministry of Industry? I honestly believe that Anna Johansson would like to go further but that it is Damberg who stops.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-631	Mr President, I would like to As far as I know, Mikael Damberg has not been involved in this matter at all. The report referred to by Emma Wallrup, to which many others have referred, is not an independent report but a basis. Substantial parts of the data have been worked into the Swedish Transport Administration's response to the Government on the assignment that the Government gave the Swedish Transport Administration – to return with a basis for an action plan. We will, of course, take note of the views of all the consultative bodies. However, if we seriously believe that all transport in our country, which is currently on the road, will be able to take place by rail because more tracks are being built, then I think it will be very difficult to achieve the climate targets. I think we will have to work on many different types of measures, which I mentioned in the previous debate on other issues. This could be about bonus – malus system to reset the vehicle fleet. It could be a question of expanding biofuels. We have different experiments with electric roads, which can be a road. There is a wide range of measures that we need to take. However, I do not think that people in rural areas will put the car because we have built railways in the big cities. But I look forward to seeing all the documents that come from the consultation bodies. Of course, we will continue to focus on what is the long-term goal, namely that we should not have net greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. If you look at what has happened in the automotive industry and in terms of conversion to other fuels over the last 20 years, you can see that things have gone extremely fast. It is something of a breakthrough for technologies other than fossil fuels that have taken place only in the last few years. To say now that technology will not be able to solve the problems we have up to 2050 – I would like to have that fortune-telling ball. With the rapid development that we have and with the great focus that we have on achieving the climate goals, I would not dare to speak so confidently that technology will not be an important, contributing factor to achieving the climate goals – without substantially restricting people's freedom.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-636	Mr President, I would like to I really wonder whether the government will take the 2030 target properly into the infrastructure plan. I think that is the biggest question. I really want to see it in place. It is important that we develop quantified interim targets on the road to a fossil-free vehicle fleet in 2030. This infrastructure plan should work on this – it is supported by investigators as well as by the Swedish Transport Administration's own administrators – if we are to reach the climate targets. It is very serious that the government, in response to which I have been given in the past, is saying that it does not intend to set a date for a fossil-free vehicle fleet. If you don't do it now, nobody will be able to do it in the future because this will be decided during this planning period. It is outrageous if you do not take that goal more seriously. The next plane will be valid until 2029, so this is the last chance we have. That's the ball you have on your table. I humbly ask you to look more closely when you draw up this plan and present the proposal! Review the instruments proposed in this climate report, in the rest of the base, both on the technology side and on the road side and on the railway side, in order for us to actually reach the goal – that's the important thing! It is important that we have a goal-driven planning, what is called backcasting, where you first look at where the goal is located and then take out milestones there and look at exactly what you need to achieve in order to achieve the next goal, the goal then and so on, to actually manage to save this planet and hand it over to our children so that they can live here just like you and me.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-640	Mr President, I would like to We have a great responsibility in our generation. We know that past generations and even our own generation have overexploited earth's resources. We know that if we continue in the direction of the compass, we will destroy the conditions for life on this planet. Already in the rather short term, we will see the devastating consequences of the climate change that we are experiencing right now in the form of extreme weather, floods, droughts, famines and the following major migratory flows – enormous pressures on our world. That is why we have a huge responsibility to face up to the climate challenges of active policy and transition, where as a rich country we have a responsibility to go ahead and demonstrate solutions. On the other hand, we must, of course, first and foremost do what is reasonable and possible and which provides the best conditions for achieving the objectives. Then I mean it would be incredibly liberating to stop talking form and start talking content. We need to relate to a reality that looks like it does. We cannot wish for things that already exist. However, we can influence with the means at our disposal, and we shall do so. The report we have received from Trafikverket is the one we have to work from outside. To this we will also weave in the referrals we receive. I can promise Emma Wallrup and anyone else who might listen that the government will have a great deal of focus on reaching the climate targets also in the future with regard to transport policy.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-645	Mr President, I would like to Ewa Thalén Finné has asked me whether I share the view that further simplifications are needed to deal with the housing situation and, if so, what. Ewa Thalén Finné has also asked me whether I and the government will initiate some regulatory changes in the near future in order to speed up construction processes and remove obstacles to construction. The government has taken a number of decisions to make it faster, easier and cheaper to build housing. We have shortened the appeal process, presented a new noise regulation, invested in energy efficient and climate-smart rental properties and launched the largest housing investment in over 20 years. Already this year, housing construction is expected to be the highest in the early 1990s. The Government's ambition is to continue pushing for simplified building rules to speed up construction processes. It is basically the same provisions in the Planning and Construction Act that are used whether the planning process takes six months or it takes eight years. Whether and when it is built depends to a large extent on political will. For example, four times more per capita is built in Sundbyberg municipality compared to Danderyd municipality. One of the reasons why the planning process sometimes takes a long time is that the law is applied in an inefficient way. When the planning process takes a long time, it is often because there are many opposing interests. One way to simplify and speed up the planning process is to clarify how the rules in the Planning and Construction Act are to be applied. A concrete example of this is that the Government has commissioned Boverket to develop a guide on how municipalities and county boards at different stages of municipal planning processes should meet the requirements of the Planning and Construction Act for buildings to be designed so that they are not inappropriate in relation to people's health, safety, the risk of accidents and more. Other concrete measures under preparation are the proposals of the Housing Planning Committee and the Planning Process Investigation. According to Boverket's forecast, 48,000 dwellings were started in 2015, which is an increase of 25 per cent compared to the previous year, and in 2016 around 53,500 dwellings were started. Although housing construction is growing rapidly, levels are not sufficient to match population growth. There is therefore a need to seek political agreements on how housing can be established at a long-term higher level. The government has therefore initiated broad political talks with the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Left Party on how we increase the building act. In the context of these talks, a number of concrete proposals will be discussed, including regulatory simplification and regulatory changes to speed up construction processes. It would be wrong for me to precede these talks by establishing what concrete measures should be implemented right now. I have great hopes that the talks will lead to an agreement on concrete measures. On the basis of such an agreement, it should be possible to achieve effective regulatory reforms and thus create sustainable conditions for increasing housing construction in the long term.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-651	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by thanking the Government for its answer. I'm afraid I'm gonna be a little sad. We are in a situation and at a time when we have gone from a housing shortage to a housing crisis, and I think the government's proposal is missing. From the answer, I can see that the Government beats its chest a little and says that a number of proposals have been made. I note that there are two proposals that have come to this House. I don't think that's enough. As a friend of order you can feel that we should sit in conversation and discuss suggestions. But it would be so much easier to discuss proposals if we actually turned and twisted different proposals. The Moderates have presented over 20 different proposals to simplify and speed up the process of obtaining the clear ground that many people are asking for. In fact, all the actors say that the biggest obstacle to more housing being built is to create more concrete land. The Government says in its reply that Boverket has been given the task of clarifying the application of the regulations. They may be good. But I think it is more worrying that one cannot also lift one's eyes and see that some regulations are undeniably hindering housing construction. Here in Stockholm there are over 30 different obstacles to building. They're on each other. It's about everything from ditches to cultural environments. I'm not saying all that stuff should be removed. However, if we could seriously sit down, or rather debate this in this House, and turn around and turn over what is essential and what is not essential, that would be a good thing. That we should not endanger health and safety is a matter of course, and that is hardly something that we need to discuss. However, I do not have any concrete proposals, and I do not have a concrete desire to find the proposals for simplifications and to discuss them in order to find this clear ground. I think that we need to focus on regulatory simplifications and more construction-ready land precisely in order for more people to get their first home. At this time, I do not have any concrete proposals. That's why I put this interpellation. When I look at the bill list, there is a bill from the Minister of Housing in it, and it should not even come this semester but in September. I feel more stressed than that. I am prepared to agree on very far-reaching regulatory simplifications. But I would like to hear what the Government's ideas are on these very issues.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-661	Mr President, I would like to We have now read and heard Mehmet Kaplan's answer to Ewa Thalén' question about whether he shares the view that more simplification is needed to deal with the housing situation and, if so, which. We did not hear about any concrete proposals for regulatory simplifications. He did not answer the simple yes or no question either. Instead, he noted that more is being built than it has been built since the 1990s. After eight years of coherent alliance rule, this decisive turn has taken place. It would be nice if the minister responsible could admit that this was happening long before his own access and that the policy of the current government has in no way contributed to this positive result. The historic investment in housing for 20 years has not yet been implemented. There is a notification about housing subsidies. However, there is no regulatory framework, nor is there any political intention for these investment aid to benefit them most of all because they are poorer and far outside the housing market. As we should know by now, there is also no desire from construction companies to be paid to build. There is talk of 700 000 more dwellings over the next ten years. We then need effective and long-term reforms and not just regulatory simplification on the margins. We need real incentives to make land attractive to build on and increase mobility through fiscal policy, but also through a reform of leasing. We note that the regulatory simplifications that have been implemented so far are the result of the Alliance's investigations – sometimes criticised – which are now coming in the form of well-prepared and fully feasible proposals. I'm glad to hear that. But the word is that it is too late; it is half-measures and completely inadequate. It is precisely noise regulations and the appeal body system that are two such examples – too late, too little and not enough. The political will to build comes if you give municipalities the opportunity to shorten or completely omit parts of the planning process themselves. To be able to build near the beach, to be able to abolish the requirement for a detailed plan and let the construction companies themselves develop plans when the resources and will are lacking in municipalities are some of the Center Party's input to the housing talks. More land is needed, and more market is needed to get construction started. One should be able to trust that an appeal has objective reasons and that there should also be a prospect of getting right and that it is not just done to injure and delay. We can see in the Minister's response to Ewa Thalén Finné that there is a suggestion that municipalities – Mr Danderyd was mentioned – should be pressed to plan and develop housing according to some form of ratio distribution. If there is no political will, it is with you in the government. Instead of tackling the major issues, you want to introduce subsidies to obtain housing, and to introduce coercive measures against municipalities. The Center Party defends municipal self-government and responsibility for housing supply. The municipality that wants to keep up with the development – get a growing basis, not only for places in the care of the elderly, but for preschools and schools, have access to labour in the municipal businesses, get a growing tax base and growing companies that can recruit staff – takes this responsibility without touchsticks and coercion. When I am dealing with matters relating to recruitment and growing companies, I would like to say that when 700 000 homes are to be developed in a short time, there will be a lack of skilled labour. With the overcoat provided by the Green Party, where any possible reform is hindered by either the Building Workers' Association, the Tenants' Association or the Left Party, and with the new practice that the government has to criticise its own decisions, I would like to ask you, environmentalist Mehmet Kaplan: What are your suggestions on how the housing market can be improved and construction simplified?
i-8ybGkXhFDo8n7ii2EF7N6t	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Thalén and Ola Johansson who are taking part in this interpellation debate. Ewa Thalén Finné used a very speaking, almost Freudian, way of expressing himself here in the speaker's chair. She said if we could seriously sit down. That is exactly what we have done, Ewa Thalén Finné. That's exactly what we're doing. The government has invited to talks – serious talks – where Ewa Thalén Finné himself participates together with his colleague Ulf Kristersson, where Ola Johansson participates together with her colleague and where the Left Party, Liberals and Christian Democrats also participate. These are serious conversations. That is exactly what Ewa Thalén Finné is actually asking for. This was what was going on throughout last year, when one opposition party after another – the four bourgeois parties – kept saying that on the one hand it felt that what the government was doing was too little and too late and, on the other hand, thought that we should have broad political agreements. We're there right now, and I'm very glad we're having these talks. Besides, I'm glad we're actually working fast. This is not something that should be pulled on a long bench, but we have a number of meetings on us as we constructively chisel out what can work – together, for Sweden. We do this for our urban areas and for the countryside. This is a housing policy which can actually have an effect and which does not lock us in the trenches which have characterised the debate on housing policy for a long time. With regard to what Ola Johansson said, I can agree that the former, the former and the former government actually did a lot of important work in this area. I remember when I took office as a Member of Parliament in 2006 and the former Swedish Government, Persson's members of parliament, pointed out that the Reinfeldt Government had come to the table and that it was indeed only the Social Democratic Government, which finished its assignment in 2006, that had built up the work. After a while, however, the rules and regulations that exist regarding how we work in Parliament began to apply, and they turned to being in opposition. That's about where we are today. You are in opposition, and your entrance is, of course, to highlight things you think should be done better. In addition, you now have a government that listens and has said that we need to sit down – as Ewa Thalén Finné says, seriously sit down – and actually work in such a way that it becomes long-term when it comes to housing policy. It does not feel good from hating back and forth, and it does not like the four - year term prospect. Instead, it wants a long-term perspective. That is what we stand for, and that is what we will continue to work on as a method. The goal is for us to invest in housing construction and to make building housing easier, faster and cheaper. I will not repeat what I said in my interpellation response, although it would of course be easy to read it again. It says that some municipalities seem to build more than others – with the same regulations.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-681	Madam President, I would like Now it's getting a little interesting anyway, I think. We received an invitation, and we have now been in a meeting, we can say. What I find very fascinating is that we should not be able to discuss proposals. The proposals we have discussed so far are quite minimalist, and I would like to wish that we could actually discuss them seriously. I think we could do it here too. But it was rather the case that when we arrived at the meeting we were being yelled at because we had housing policy debates outside. That is perhaps a strange aspect of this, because somewhere we must be able to discuss important political issues. Or is it supposed to be the lid on for six months? But we didn't have six months, because it was due in June. We have no interest in drawing this on a long bench. As I said, we have put forward over 20 concrete proposals for improvements to the regulatory framework and changes to the regulatory framework. Among other things, it is about strengthening an overview planning and removing detailed planning requirements. There we will see if something may come, but we could consider removing detailed plans at the end of the implementation period. It is about having the right of initiative. These are free-of-charge measures and the introduction of type-approved houses. Reducing the problem of appeal, particularly in the case of property owners, would be an important step. Reform beach protection to make it easier to build outside our big cities! It is often very difficult to finance building today. Reform the nature reserve system! It may not be reasonable for municipalities to make nature reserves, but perhaps it is the state that has the exclusive right to do so. The national interest system feels very important to look over, and not in the direction that the Swedish interest inquiry did. It made the system more difficult, and instead it should simplify and perhaps remove parts. As far as building regulations are concerned, we need to simplify, not evaluate. As far as noise regulations are concerned, there is a majority in Parliament who wanted to go further than the government did. Then we should look much more at harmonising building regulations with the Nordic countries, Germany and the Baltic countries in order to bring in more people who can build. Perhaps we should have the same energy management rules throughout the country. So there is a whole map of rules we could discuss. No, I'm sure we won't agree on everything, because that's not how it works. But what I find sad is that we have very few debates with the Minister for Housing and that, once we have them, they are about us sitting down. No concrete proposals are actually being made, and I find that unfortunate. It is so much better to also in the public direction and turn on – and discuss – regulations. I don't feel it's done by the government.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-687	Madam President, I would like When it comes to Boverket's mission to review health, safety and accidents, it is of course great and important. But how does this lead to increased construction? If that's the only example of how we're going to get more housing, I understand there's nothing in the coffin. When it comes to sitting down and talking, we do, but sitting there is no getting anywhere. Instead, run to Parliament with the simplifications we already have a majority to implement! Then you'll get your policy through. What we are asking for now are new proposals. It is not wise to go out and gossip and tell what we have talked about in our conversations or what memos we have read. I won't, but we need real reforms. Our entrance is that we should highlight and bring them into the conversation, but we do not get a response. What's the point of bringing things in when they don't get up on the table? That's what we're missing here. There is a lack of information for small and densely-built municipalities about what will happen with the noise regulations, on which we have had an announcement. In fact, we have an announcement from the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, which I have drawn attention to and which concerns the protection of the shore. This involves a further review of the beach protection that makes it easier to build near-shore and make more land attractive to build on. Because we need to build all over the country if we are to do this. A reduction in the building permit fee at long processing times is announced, and we have announcements from the Riksdag about measures that facilitate the development of student housing. We have already asked the government to come with this, but there is nothing coming. I agree with Ewa Thalén's list of what needs to be done. The key to getting the exchange of new housing is that we have mobility. It will, at least indirectly, ensure that people outside the housing market enter, but then perhaps not into the new and relatively expensive homes, but – through migration chains – in the older ones. In order to achieve the desired mobility, a review of tax rules and the leasing system is needed.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-691	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ewa Thalén for raising the issue of how we can build housing. I find it incredibly fascinating to listen to these two bourgeois housing politicians who had nine financial years to build up the housing shortage in Sweden but managed to halve the housing construction during their period, despite the fact that we had a very large population increase in early 2006. That's really what it looked like. We now believe that it is due to the refugees, but it was in 2006 that there was a large increase in the population in Sweden. The bourgeois government succeeded in reducing the construction very strongly because of the removal of investment aid, among other things. Then the rules have been laid down, and this has not paid off at all. I find that extremely fascinating. What I now hear from the Moderates and Anna Kinberg Batra is that we should start sharing in kitchens and toilets and roll back the time a few decades to get housing. I don't believe that. I want to make it very clear that the Left Party does not think we should go back to the old children's kingdom houses. SKL produced a report a few months ago looking at what land there is in the municipalities. SKL then saw that in only 50 of Sweden's municipalities there were almost 200 000 homes in ready-made detailed plans. Just put the shovel in the ground. Sweden is a very sparsely populated country. We have quite a lot of land, and in many places the municipalities are good at producing that land. The question I would like to put to the Minister for Housing is: how do we ensure that this land is built up? It's a so-called low-hanging fruit. If you start building on the land that already exists in the companies, you can get the volumes up strongly. Today, many companies buy this land. You lie on it and you hoard it. There are large construction companies that have thousands and thousands of building rights only in the Stockholm region on which they are not based, because they are waiting for an increase in the value of the residential apartments that they intend to build. It ensures that house prices go up and build when – as it is said – the market is ripe. Municipalities should be given stronger tools to combat this. Housing prices are far too high today. It is very difficult for ordinary people to enter the housing market at all. The municipalities must be given the tools to take back the land that is not built up and on which the companies are merely for speculative purposes. What does the government want to do about this? If you have powerful tools to achieve something on this issue, then you can get many more homes in a short time. How does the Minister view the issue of rewarding municipalities that produce land for rent construction? Today, in the Stockholm region, if land is distributed for the construction of rental rights, it will be built quite quickly because there are not the same speculative incentives in the construction of rental apartments. How does the Minister want to ensure that the municipalities are helped to buy in land? Many of the municipalities do not have much land. Is the Minister prepared to reintroduce the right of pre-purchase for the municipalities? Are we ready to look at how we can help municipalities buy more land for municipalities to dispose of for residential construction?
i-USNywfDkdoNPBaXtSYrGhP	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Nooshi Dadgostar, Ola Johansson and Ewa Thalén. Suddenly there was a much broader debate than what Mrs Thalén had originally mentioned. At least I'll try to catch up with some questions. Ewa Tha lén Finné calls for more debate on housing policy. It cannot have escaped Ewa Thalén Finné that that is about what we have been debating over the whole of last year. We have debated and discussed. Almedalen this summer was a very interesting event. According to one industry magazine, I had participated in the most debates among the party leaders and ministers. Housing issues have been very high on the agenda. I do not understand what this debate is called for by Ewa Thalén. I see you are more of the Moderates who are debating housing policy. But as a spokesperson in housing policy, you should know that I am one of those who are involved in the most debates. I am happy to come to this House and debate and discuss. In her opening speech, Ewa Thalén Finné said, "If we can seriously sit down...". It is not enough simply to debate and discuss and develop ideas that one ideological position is better than that of the opponent. We must, in fact, try to find common lines that we can agree on, so that the housing market and the operators who are there know what applies even over the next five or ten years, or rather longer. This is what has been part of the problem that Nooshi Dadgostar highlighted in a commendable way. So there are politicians here who have represented parties that have been in power for eight years – not four years, not six years, but eight years. That's a very long time. Even in the housing sector, eight years is quite a lot. In most municipalities in Sweden, it could have been possible to go from grain to loaf, even if I sometimes have the opportunity to visit projects that started during the previous term. It is very interesting to hear the rhetoric of representatives who only a year and a half ago supported the then government. I was previously very clear, Ola Johansson. I think you should give kredd to those who have previously worked on the questions. That is why I mentioned the previous, the past and the previous parliamentary term. Since lead times are so long in housing policy, there were governments that did good things too. It would be strange, Ola Johansson, if, after eight years, you have not achieved much. Housing construction did not increase as much as needed. I have taken part in an old debate, not very old really. It was a year and a half old. My predecessor, Stefan Attefall, took part in a debate in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, discussing the future. Stefan Attefall said then that 2015 the Alliance's policy will have resulted in many new homes. There will have been 38 000 new homes. It became 48 000 homes in 2015. All the talks from the Alliance that housing construction was supposed to stop have not come true, thank God.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-705	Madam President, I would like I must respond to the debate technique used by the Government. When I called for concrete proposals and measures and for us to be able to debate them, I get the answer: yes, but we have debated all over last year. Above all, the Government has been extremely diligent in Almedalen. Yeah, maybe that's not really what I wanted. I called for us to be able to debate these issues this year too. Since the government took office, it has been said that regulatory simplification is one leg that you should work with. At the same time, it has not presented a single proposal of its own. The two proposals submitted to Parliament are based on the Alliance's appointed investigations and proposals. Moreover, these proposals have not gone all the way. I find it fascinating to meet government representatives and ministers responsible for this incredibly important issue. There is such a great need and we have gone from lack to crisis. It is then agreed that, perhaps in ten years, 700 000 homes will be built. I have now listened to the Minister's speech for ten minutes, and not a single concrete proposal has been put forward which we could debate. I have not even received a little response to the proposals that I highlighted. It is we, the Center, the Alliance and even the Left who make proposals, but the government has no proposals.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-708	Madam President, I would like I thank you for all the contributions that have been made to the debate. It is about different rules for housing construction, and it is a fairly broad question that Mrs Ewa has asked. That is also why I would like to ask the Minister for Housing how he views the fact that there is so much land. The land issue is very much in the debate, but rarely do we say the obvious, that is, there is a lot of land. The companies, at least the big companies, are on an incredible amount of land, but it is not being built anyway. Especially in strategically important growth regions, the companies are on land without building. There are two problems with that. On the one hand, prices rise far too much when we do not have a high supply, and, on the other hand, construction is greatly delayed when we place far too few homes on the market. When you read the investigations set up by the previous government and ask why the land that already exists is not built, it is referred to that there are no market conditions for building housing. I would like to question what market conditions we are talking about. The need is enormous. That is what the Left Party's proposal focuses on. The municipalities must be given tools to get that land back if it is not built. We want to help the commons and everyone else who currently builds rental apartments with reasonable rents. Our first reason is that it is land that is being built up quickly, because there is no speculative incentive. Our second reason is that it is a form of tenure that ordinary people can take part in, because it does not require a large amount of capital. I want to put the question again to the Minister for Housing. How does the Minister for Housing view the Left Party's proposal on land issues?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-712	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the interpellete, Ewa Thalén Finné, very much. I also thank Ola Johansson for taking part in the debate, and I thank Nooshi Dadgostar for the questions at the end. It is true, as Nooshi Dadgostar says: There are indications that the housing companies are on land. At the same time, the municipalities have the opportunity to make demands when ordering the land. For example, we see this in the Stockholm region, where the municipality of Nacka claims that they do so, and in this way they get a rung in land instruction and construction. This is something that more municipalities should then follow, because it is of course not good that there is a plug in the system that does not depend on the municipality or the state. This brings me to the entrances of Ewa Thalén Finné and Ola Johansson. They always point out that it is the state's fault that it is not being built. That's the funny thing, even though I don't know if it's so funny for all the people who stand without a home. If it had been the fault of the state, you would have done something about it in the eight years you were in charge. You started a job. In some parts it went to goal, in other parts it got caught up in different types of objections from experts and others who know the question very well. Nooshi Dadgostar addresses the commons as an important player. I agree with her that there is an opportunity here for various actors to make investments in housing construction. For this we have launched the biggest housing policy initiative in the budget together with the Left Party. This means that there is investment aid that the municipal housing companies, among other things, can use to build more rental apartments. Ewa Thalén Finné! I'll take the debate anytime, whenever you want and wherever you want. I will continue to do so. But we must also seriously – to use your words – sit down and discuss the issues.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-717	Madam President, I would like Erik Ottoson has asked me three questions. Firstly, he has asked whether, in my view, building Wi-Fi networks in cities is a correct priority when the broadband target is not yet met and many in rural areas do not have adequate broadband. Secondly, he has asked whether, in the course of my duties, I will in any way give guidance signals as to whether or not municipal free wifi is desirable. Thirdly, Erik Ottoson wonders what measures I have taken since our last interpellation debate on the subject, in which, according to Erik Ottoson, I promised to take with me the issue of providing, within the framework of the broadband strategy, guidance signals on which technology choices to achieve the broadband target are desirable. When Erik Ottoson and I last discussed the issue of municipal Wi-Fi, i.e. in August 2015, the Swedish Competition Authority's review of Helsingborg Municipality's actions was under way. As Erik Ottoson points out, the Competition Authority has decided on the matter. It took place in December 2015. It is clear from the decision that the Competition Authority does not consider that the activity in question or any procedure applied therein currently gives rise to sufficient negative effects on competition for the case to be brought to court. With regard to the first question, whether it is a correct priority, the starting point is local self-government. It is not for me as a minister to comment on how priorities should be made at municipal level. It is at the municipal level that there is knowledge of the need for service in the individual municipality. It is also where the knowledge is available on how to provide the best possible public service to their citizens. Access to broadband is important for the ability to create more jobs and a growing business community across the country, as well as for the provision of good public services. With regard to the second question, the issue of steering signals, it is not for me, either, as a minister, to speak. In its decision of December 2015, the Swedish Competition Authority concluded that the actions of Helsingborg Municipality at the time of the decision did not give rise to sufficient negative effects on competition for the Swedish Competition Authority to pursue the case. The Competition Authority did not therefore intervene against Helsingborg Municipality's Wi-Fi operations, but the decision may be reconsidered if the behaviour has a so-called negative market impact, for example if the Wi-Fi service is expanded or if the traffic volume increases. Finally, Erik Ottoson's third question concerns the broadband strategy. The current broadband strategy was decided in 2009 and the targets were formulated with a view to 2020. It is important to ensure that good conditions are created for the rapid roll-out of broadband, fixed and mobile, even after 2020. The Government's work on specifying the orientation of broadband policy was initiated in connection with a meeting of the Bredbandsforum steering group in 2015, and this work is expected to be completed during the year. This work takes into account the common principles that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, the Swedish Competition Authority and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council have designed for municipal interventions in the area of broadband. The increased digitalisation of society means that the broadband infrastructure, with both fixed and mobile technologies, is of great importance. The capacity of mobile networks is developing towards delivering ever higher speeds. Both the Government's decision on broadband coordinators and the Bill Cheaper roll-out of broadband networks show that the Government has a neutral position regarding the choice between fixed and mobile technologies in the roll-out of broadband networks. The Government sees it as important to promote and streamline the roll-out of both fixed and wireless broadband.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-723	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. The Government and I have discussed the matter before, and I can warn you, Madam President, that we will not be in agreement today either. The issue of so-called municipal free wifi contains a certain technical complexity in terms of how markets work and how digital technology for the distribution of internet services works. But it is important in principle for us to have an effective roll-out of broadband in this country. It is also important in principle to ensure that we have good coverage even in those parts of the country that cannot be considered directly central. Madam President, I would like Let me be clear about what this is really about. If a city or municipality chooses to provide too much of a free Wi-Fi service, it knocks away the legs of those who today provide the corresponding kind of service on a commercial level. This is when, for example, we use our smart mobile phones and via the telephone network connects us to the internet. In this situation, the city centre and the major cities are a large cash cow which allows us to have better coverage outside the metropolitan areas without providing public funds or tax funds. The big cities thus contribute to a non-tax-subsidised expansion outside the big cities as well. The irony is perhaps that when big cities choose to make this form of Wi-Fi networks, it has the consequence that we need to spend more money on broadband infrastructure, both fibre-bound and wireless, even in rural areas. After the rather constructive discussion that I and the Government had last discussed the issue, it would have been hoped that the government would have taken advantage of the steering signals it has the opportunity to make use of. It is important to clarify what applies. The Competition Authority has not chosen to say that the behaviour of the City of Helsingborg, which in the big picture is quite relevant, is a distortion of competition. At the same time, however, it is said by the Swedish Competition Authority that if this happens to an extent, it can be distortive to competition. If you draw that conclusion, Madam President, it is not a long step to draw exactly the same conclusion from the government's steering signals. But that's what the government says he's not prepared to do. In the broadband strategy, there are proposals and some guidelines and advice on what kind of deployment is desirable to do so effectively and effectively. Madam President, I would like I have today presented, and other players in the market have explained, the negative consequences of a free municipal wifi for the expansion both in cities and in rural areas. In agreement with the Competition Authority and its conclusions on the City of Helsingborg, the Government should also be able to draw the same conclusion and prevent the waste of tax money. Otherwise, it is in danger of appearing if an extension is imposed, which means that the Competition Authority then needs to intervene.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-734	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik Ottosson, for the extremely important issue because we can get world-class broadband. There is a problem in principle here. When we discussed the matter last time and debated it in the Chamber, Erik Ottoson wanted me to speak before the Competition Authority had delivered its ruling. Now he wants me to do things from what the Swedish Competition Authority has said that the Swedish Competition Authority does not say. The Competition Authority states that the examination of Helsingborg Municipality's actions did not lead to a question about the service that Helsingborg Municipality offers to citizens. It will be very hard to act on that. On the other hand, I have said what I said before. What we are working on now in the development of the digital broadband strategy are control signals. Until we are done with that work, I do not think that it is possible to do exactly what it should be like. This applies regardless of whether we want to prevent this in order to increase the impact of the market in this area or whether we think it is good that more municipalities are making this kind of investment. I'm not prepared to do that now. We are in the middle of the work that will determine it. The old broadband strategy did not identify what it would mean in many different ways. That is why it is good to have a ruling from the Competition Authority. It also says in principle that it keeps an eye on the situation. Therefore, neither Erik Ottoson nor any other Member of Parliament need be concerned. Moreover, as Minister of IT, I have an ultimate responsibility for ensuring that this type of service does not create problems for commercial expansion. We also have authorities that experts in the field consider to be the most suitable to have supervision. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is such an authority that we trust very much. We have discussed and debated its function before me and Erik Ottoson. On this particular issue, the Competition Authority is another authority.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-741	Madam President, I would like I can begin by stating that the current broadband strategy was developed at a time when free municipal Wi-Fi networks were not really a phenomenon. It is a little bit of the tense question that here becomes the crux of the matter. The City of Helsingborg's actions, as noted by the Government and the Competition Authority, are not something that causes a distortion of competition. I have not put much emphasis on the city of Helsingborg as an example either. There are far more worrying examples in the local political debate today. Take, for example, the government's own party colleagues at Stockholm City Hall and their coalition partners. They have discussed the possibility of covering the entire city of Stockholm with a free Wi-Fi network and in this way take out virtually the entire market in Sweden's largest city. It is by far the most important part of the cash-coastal system for telecommunications companies that will then expand in rural areas. Then a little bit has been floated on the target exactly to what extent it would happen when you realized that it took off quite a long way when it came to costing money. This is where the next part comes in. That is why the Government must be on its toes on this issue. We must prevent such a large number of tax million from being plowed into such a project that the Competition Authority, which reviews afterwards and not in advance, needs to protest and strike. The Government has the preventive instrument in its hand. Then I understand that he may not want to anticipate the work on the new broadband strategy. Well, that may be the case. But he can work on the new broadband strategy. It is the preventive instrument that can save taxpayers at both local and national level several million SEK in avoiding poor investments. It may win some voices locally and may appear to be anything from an important broadband accessibility initiative to a democratic initiative. You can come up with a lot of different descriptions of this. But when you see the whole picture, it is not a wise way to invest if you do so to the extent that, for example, the government's own party colleagues at Stockholm City Hall have announced. That is why it is so important that we not only rely on the Competition Authority and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. The Government and politics in general have a responsibility, above all, to show the way for what is and is not desirable at this time. Politics is in many parts about the ability to look around corners and try to prevent bad things and support good things. Here we have a bad project that exists in several places around the country. It risks costing huge amounts of money. We cannot trust the authorities to put an end to it until after the money has been spent. We are then in a significantly worse position to achieve the broadband target by 2020. That is why I choose to highlight this issue. I think the Government really understands this and my concerns. Although he cannot now give the message today that it will be part of the renewed broadband strategy, I nevertheless hope that he will take this with him. It is a very important issue to ensure that every crown is used properly. This is particularly true now that the broadband money for the roll-out of fibre in rural areas is starting to run. Every penny is needed, and that money needs to be used in the right way.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-752	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Erik Ottoson. I share Erik Ottoson's concern that broadband roll-out will continue, so that we do not get world-class broadband throughout Sweden, where metropolitan areas are extremely important. But it is difficult to lift the case of Helsingborg. Erik Ottoson talks time and again about the concern, which I share, that tax money should not be used in the most effective way. But we have 290 municipalities in Sweden, and they each have a mandate to create good conditions for citizens and business based on their own conditions. It is something that Helsingborg Municipality has taken on board when they have made their assessment that has led them to have a Wi-Fi network that, as far as I understand, is open to the public free of charge. In turn, it has ended up with the Competition Authority. So far, so good. And so far, I can agree with Erik Ottoson's concern that this could be a bigger problem than isolated to a single municipality. We both had that concern when we debated the issue last year. In its decision last December, the Competition Authority concluded that the actions of the Municipality of Helsingborg at the time of the decision did not, I do not repeat, give rise to sufficient negative effects on competition in order for them to pursue the case. I know that Erik Ottoson trusts the independent authority to do its job; so do I. And as a minister, it is inappropriate to try to reconsider it after they have reached a decision. So far, I mean, we were on the same wavelength. After that, I think that the question of further threats on the horizon is a bit problematic, from a minister's point of view. But from a Member of Parliament's point of view, it is only good. Then we will have the opportunity to discuss and debate the issue. And I can take with me the parts of Erik Ottoson's concern that I have been infected with. I will. I believe that the broadband strategy is extremely important for Sweden to be able to achieve its goal of being the country in the world that reaches the ultimate opportunities of digitalisation and where we can use these opportunities in the best possible way, both within the business community and for individuals. If you want to pull it another lap, it means that the Competition Authority, the next time they need to look at a similar case, may arrive at the opposite answer. This does not mean that tax funds have been used incorrectly, when it comes to Sweden. It concerns the individual affairs of that municipality, to assess what it has to deal with in terms of service to its citizens. In the digital strategy, we will set up a scenario that tries to cover as much as possible of what Sweden can offer in terms of differences. But with 290 municipalities with 290 different ways of looking at the issue, similar situations will arise from time to time. And I'll always be watching this.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-762	Madam President, I would like Now it's complicated. The government is arguing somewhat against itself. He says, on the one hand, that what happened in Helsingborg's municipality did not give rise to any comment from the Competition Authority. Therefore, we should not worry, and therefore he can do nothing. On the other hand, he says – which is also true, and this is where it will be fun – that the reason for this was that Helsingborg Municipality had not done this to a sufficient extent. But then one can rather quickly discover that his colleagues on the other side of Riddarfjärden want to do this, to an immensely greater extent. You risk plowing down amazing amounts of tax money in an extension of a municipal Wi-Fi network, which will definitely render in the views of the Swedish Competition Authority – as a Member of Parliament I can afford to say. Of course, it's problematic, even for you. It is also problematic that the Government says that he cannot go in and govern the 290 municipalities. That's not what I'm asking. What we are talking about now with regard to the broadband strategy is advice being issued. They are not mandatory for municipalities. These are Councils which the Government has the possibility to influence in the course of its duties. When the Government lists who should be a part of the development of this, he lists the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, the Swedish Competition Authority and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. Not in a word is the industry mentioned, those who are very important to cooperate with for this to be good. Madam President, I would like It is not a question of reconsidering the Competition Authority's position. It is a question of looking at more than the first sentence of what they say, i.e. that if this had been to a greater extent this could have a distortion of competition. That's what the government has to take care of so this doesn't get out of hand.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-767	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Erik Ottoson for this very urgent question. Of course, both Erik Ottoson and I know that it is the industry's players that are expanding broadband. When I say that it should not have a negative impact on the market, it is implicitly the industry's actors that are referred to. It is possible that we will have to review the answers so that they are included more specifically. But I think they know exactly what is meant when we say so. It is an important issue in many different aspects. When Erik Ottoson has concerns about the red-green-pink rule at City Hall, I would of course like to interpret him favorably. So I understand that this is more about the issue than ideological differences. I trust my friends at City Hall. The red-green-pink rule had to take over after two terms of office with Erik Ottoson's party in the leadership that ruled in a direction that the citizens of the capital thankfully voted against so that we got a new rule. The red-green-pink steering system makes many good contributions, in many different areas. For me, it is important to safeguard the administrative autonomy of the 290 municipalities. Many are governed by Erik Ottoson's own party. Helsingborg is exciting enough a municipality where the Moderates sit by the government. I didn't want to bring it up because there's going to be a polemic that it's your party or my party that's running it. For me, it is important that the preconditions for broadband expansion are always clear and clear. The Competition Authority has reached a decision that, in my opinion, serves the country well. In this case, they have made a very clear statement as to what this is or is not when it comes to Helsingborg. We'll listen to that.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-772	Madam President, I would like Nooshi Dadgostar has asked me whether I intend to take any steps to allow the public housing companies themselves to manage their profits. We have a huge housing shortage in the country. Then the public housing companies are an important player. They should be able to build new homes and renovate existing ones. I share Nooshi Dadgostar's view that efforts are also needed from public housing companies and that their potential profits should therefore contribute to housing construction. It is up to each municipality to decide how they want to run their public housing company. I am aware that seven of the housing companies have distributed more than allowed in 2014. Some housing companies have also made use of the exception rule and allocated parts of the profits to housing supply measures that promote integration and social cohesion or that meet the housing needs of persons for whom the municipality has a special responsibility. When the Law on Public utility housing companies came into force in 2011, the conditions for restrictions on value transfers were changed, i.e. the distribution of profits and the transfer of group contributions to parent companies and sister companies. One purpose of the Act was to clarify that municipalities have the right to operate public housing companies but that it must be in such a way that competition is not distorted. The law was designed so that the Swedish regulations do not conflict with EU competition and state aid rules, but also to balance the partly different interests of residents, municipalities and property owners. Each year, the municipalities are required to provide information on decided transfers of value to the county administrative boards, and since the Act entered into force, Boverket has, on behalf of the Government, continuously followed the changes that the Act has brought to the housing market. For example, the unauthorised transfers of value have decreased significantly since the law was amended in 2011. In the year before the Act was introduced, 18 per cent of the companies left unauthorised transfer of value to compare with between 3 and 5 per cent in 2011–2014. The government has no intention of taking any action but is closely following developments and is prepared to make an overall assessment if developments are going in the wrong direction.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-777	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The reason for my interpellation is that a number of weeks ago SVT was able to show that much of the money in the municipalities is being lost from the municipal housing companies and into other municipal activities. Of course, it's the wrong timing. Now that we have such a huge housing shortage, all the money in the companies needs to stay there to go to increased housing construction. I also note that in the measurement made by SVT, the Stockholm Moderates were the worst in the last term of office. They took billions out of housing companies primarily to finance tax cuts for fairly wealthy Stockholmers. This is money that could have led to a large number of new rental apartments in Stockholm. Stockholm would have looked completely different today if this type of value transfers had not been carried out during the last term of office in the City of Stockholm – to take an example. The review also shows that the old bourgeois majority in Mölndal is charging a great deal of money to finance Gunnebo castles and gardens. It is castle parks, hotels and other things that are financed by the tenants' money. Boverket notes that they have noted that Mölndal municipality has repeatedly made unauthorized transfers of profits, and has done so for nine years, but that they cannot do anything about it. It must nevertheless seem quite incomprehensible to ordinary people that we have a regulatory framework that municipalities repeatedly violate but that nothing happens. Public utility is one of our most powerful tools for building away the housing shortage. Most often, if the commons start to build, the private ones fall behind and you can get up the housing building quite strongly. The amendment to the law referred to by the Minister, which was pushed through in 2010, was based on a kind of compromise. The municipal companies were to operate according to commercial principles as long as the tenants' money was not used for anything other than the properties. However, this legislation has become one-sidedly bad for tenants, it is true that this is what we have to say afterwards. On the other hand, several municipalities make extremely harsh interpretations of what is commercial, i.e. that they impose far too high yield requirements and carry out irrational sales, and they continue to collect money from the companies. The Minister then points out that the proportion is falling. But there'll be more money. The withdrawal from the company of several billions that Stockholm did, for example, was a permissible withdrawal, because it only refers to the enormous flora of exceptions that currently exists. I believe that when there are such generous exceptions in the legislation, we have not protected tenants from large withdrawals, but the tenants' money disappears into other municipal activities or, as in this case, to tax cuts for wealthy Stockholmers. At the same time, many feel that the rents are pushed up too much, that maintenance is too bad and that the renovations are not carried out in a good way for the tenants. For many, it is perceived as immensely unfair for tenants to pay double for their welfare when it is the taxpayer who should be responsible for municipal activities, not the tenant.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-784	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Nooshi for raising this important issue. We have a number of figures from 2014 when it comes to transfers from municipal housing companies. What we see is a significant reduction in the total number but also in the number of companies that do this. And there are no sanctions in the Housing Company Act that give transfers of value in breach of the regulations. That's what the law looks like. And what this Parliament looks like, it may not be to expect a change to the law to go through either. But we're watching this very closely. Since the Act entered into force, Boverket has, on behalf of the Government, continuously followed the changes in the housing market, which means that we have the figures we have. In addition, it is important to know that a decision in the City of Stockholm on the measures contained in the derogation, which we are also discussing, was actually appealed against. The appeal was rejected in the Administrative Court as well as in the Administrative Court of Appeal, which is a higher court. There was no leave to appeal in the Supreme Administrative Court, which means that further appeal has not been possible. The judgment of the Administrative Court of Appeal on the matter will then remain. This guiding judgment shows that municipalities have extensive freedom of action in the use of the surplus. The surplus is a matter and the unauthorised transfers are another matter. If we see from the government that this is escalating, or at least not stagnating, we will have the opportunity to come back to the issue. Then it is in line with what Nooshi Dadgostar mentions, that these transfers are not meant to happen. These are supposed to be the means that come to the municipality, its inhabitants and above all the residents. Apart from that, Madam President, I have nothing to add.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-789	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the additional answer. One problem is, on the one hand, the illegal withdrawals, which do not impose any penalties, and, on the other hand, the hugely flexible derogations contained in the legislation. The compromise on which the legislation was based, namely that the tenants would agree that this is run according to commercial principles, but that the tenants' money should be kept within the company, I do not mean that it is being kept right now. And I am not at all as convinced as the Minister that it cannot be enforced in the Swedish Parliament. I am absolutely convinced that most people think it is the taxpayer in a municipality who should pay for the municipal activities, not those who happen to be tenants during that particular period. One exception in the legislation, for example, is that money should promote integration and social cohesion. Then the question must be: Why do tenants pay for integration and social cohesion in a municipality? Isn't it the locals' job to do that? Is it the tenants who are to be integrated? Or what exactly is it supposed to be like? That is an enormous and non-specific wording in an exception, I have to say, because integration and social cohesion can actually be anything. This is extremely vague. A lawyer who looks at this can get exactly anything into this, so I think this should be tightened up. That a city like Stockholm, where the housing shortage is so great, should be able to sell out so huge a number of homes and then use the money to lower the tax for primarily homeowners becomes for me a distribution policy very negative thing. The fact that we can do this means that we cannot get to the housing shortage. Does the Minister not think that it is quite unreasonable to make such arrangements? Would it not be reasonable instead to increase the incentive to invest in housing and protect tenants' money, and if so, to increase maintenance further or use the money for renovations? If there is money left over, you should maintain and renovate housing and invest in new production. Municipal activities shall be financed from tax resources. That's my point. Villa owners receive ROT deductions and interest rebates, and many of the expensive villas no longer have property tax. It is the state and the common treasury that are responsible for this. But it is also the tenants who pay the municipal welfare. For me, the distribution effect that this overall does not get is very solidarity or the picture we give the tenants of how we allocate costs and rights. Welfare according to needs and taxes according to ability is the most important thing. Lawyer Ingrid Birgersson at Boverket says to SVT in this review: It is unfortunate that the law is not strictly formulated, which gives room for interpretation. In addition, there is no possibility of sanctions for those who violate the established rules. That is Boverket's statement on this. How does the Minister feel about that?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-798	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Nooshi Dadgostar. I know that this issue is extremely important for Nooshi Dadgostar, and I am following it closely and closely. A problem here is how I, as a minister, can deal with an issue on which there is a law and if so, prepare for change. Let's see if there's more and more illegal dividends or if it's stagnating. Of course, different assessments can be made here. But when Nooshi Dadgostar's party together with my party, the Social Democrats and FI took over the rule of Stockholm City Hall, efforts were made in this area, which has changed the whole picture over almost one night. The three large housing companies have changed their policy and do not continue to do as they have done in the previous year. It may appear to be a small change because these three companies alone can change the picture so much. But I believe that the citizens have also questioned this. There is a reason why our two parties and S and FI won the election. It was because there was a great dissatisfaction with how the former government dealt with housing issues in Stockholm City, among other things. We must follow this issue closely. As far as case law and the assessment are concerned, I can only agree with Nooshi Dadgostar that it allows for a spacious interpretation. This shows, in particular, the court's assessment of previous cases. This applies, for example, to the decision by the City of Stockholm on the measures contained in this exception. Here it was concluded that the municipalities have extensive freedom of action in their handling. At the same time, we know that the funds transferred under the exception we are now discussing have been used mainly for housing supply measures. These include investments in security and eviction prevention, the renovation of parks and housing for particularly vulnerable groups. MKB Fastighets AB in Malmö is the company that, in accordance with the exception rule, has submitted the largest amount to the municipality. It is more than SEK 36 million for housing supply measures in particular. One might think that it should not be managed by the municipality's companies, but the law stipulates that the handling is not outside the scope of what the Riksdag decided on. I'm following this closely. It is a declining trend, and Nooshi Dadgostar must agree that much less money is being transferred from the commons now. However, should that change, we will discuss what we can do to avoid what Nooshi Dadgostar sees as a problem, namely that the tenants are involved in paying for the general welfare. In that case, we will have to come back to that.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-808	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister. I am a little worried that the Minister has too much confidence in the current election results and hopes for a stable red-green majority in Stockholm City. There is a certain risk that it will change, and then it is quite easy for a new majority to sell to the enormous extent that they did in Stockholm during the last term of office and during some periods very quickly pick out a lot of money. There is a great opportunity to do this, so I think we need to have a long-term approach to legislation. Even in the case of a different majority, there must be a foundation and a culture where you do not use the tenants' money for anything other than property management, new production and so on. My proposal is very modest. I suggest that perhaps the paragraph which is extra flexible, that is to say on integration and social cohesion, be removed. The Left Party has proposed at least tightening up what is the most fluid in legislation. Maybe we don't have to have huge periodic penalty payments. We can discuss that as well. But why not have an authority that controls and brings back the money that has been illegally collected? Can we at least discuss such a model? It is not hard but clearly shows that it is illegal and therefore the money is returned. If we do not tighten up the legislation, we are ultimately in danger of getting much fewer rental rights. It will result if the money is not used correctly.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-813	Madam President, I would like I thank Nooshi Dadgostar for this very urgent issue. It was not the case that during the previous parliamentary term, the Riksdag made efforts that led to more or more profits being made by municipalities. On the contrary, profit transfers and profit withdrawals have decreased. It is not only because the three municipal real estate companies in Stockholm have received new directives, but we have a chart where we can see how there are fewer transfers today than it was last year and last year. So it is a downward trend. We do not say no to what Nooshi Dadgostar and her party are highlighting. We believe that it is important to follow this closely and closely. I thank Mrs Nooshi for raising this urgent issue and paying more attention than just our eyes in here to the fact that this is an issue that needs to be closely monitored and monitored. It is my job as Minister to keep an eye on this issue so that there is no unfair redistribution. Both Nooshi Dadgostar and I know that in many cases the tenants pay more for their accommodation than the owner of their property does. This has been further accentuated due to the current circumstances of the housing market. This is why we have set up an investigation that looks at the position of tenants in the housing market and how to strengthen their position, and the investigator Agneta Börjesson will present a number of proposals. It is not impossible that, in connection with this, if we receive additional data, we can see whether anything can be done on this issue.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-818	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me how I and the government intend to create good conditions for the nationally important lime and cement industry on Gotland. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has also asked me if I support the government's statement that the lime and cement industry on Gotland will continue to be seen. The government takes the protection of Sweden's nature very seriously, as we have shown through last year's decision on a number of Natura 2000 sites on Gotland. At the same time, I am aware that last year's decision changes the conditions for future lime mining in Bäseträsk. Current and planned lime mining in other parts of Gotland is not affected by the decision. As the government communicated already this summer, our view is that on behalf of Gotland we make the assessment that further measures involving larger areas will not be needed to comply with Sweden's obligations under the EU's Species and Habitats Directive. Regional development and job creation throughout the country are very important issues for the government. The Government considers it very important that Gotland continues to have a viable industry and business. This is why the government announced last year a strong venture of SEK 100 million to strengthen companies and entrepreneurship on Gotland. A special contact person is appointed who has the Government's mission to develop proposals to strengthen the business community in the region. The assignment includes concrete efforts for more jobs and sustainable business development in Gotland County, where the lime industry is an important part. The mission is initiated and conducted in broad dialogue with representatives of industry, public access and civil society. In mid-June, a report with proposals for concrete measures will be submitted to the Government Office for further management. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority have allocated a total of SEK 72 million to Gotland County for the protection and management of valuable areas, outdoor activities and measures for the marine and aquatic environment, measures that strengthen the local business community and create employment.
i-S4rGY96eRbCJK86s3g4Rsg	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for further clarification of the government's position on this issue. I realise that it may be a bit nagging and a little déjà-vu-ish that we are standing here again and having about the same debate as we had a year ago. But it is a complex and long process with many pieces, and the process has continued. When it comes to an industry that is so important to Sweden and that provides so many jobs in a county where industry is in decline, you cannot really leave anything to chance. That's why I've called the Council of State here today. As we both agree, the cement industry is important for Gotland. It is one of many parts of a business that needs vitality and confidence in the future. The degree of heavy investment it brings and the long-term perspective are important in addition to, for example, the large agricultural sector on Gotland and the authorities located on the island. Different parts are needed and benefit from each other. In addition, we add that the cement industry is important for the whole of Sweden. More than 60 per cent of our cement comes from northern Gotland, and if the cement industry disappears from it, it will probably also disappear from Sweden. Then we have to rely on shipping lime across the Atlantic from, for example, Canada, as we have seen in 2015, which is environmentally and economically rather questionable. Moreover, anyone who is willing to close down the cement industry must answer the question: what should we use instead? I am personally convinced that in the future we will increasingly use the Swedish forest, including when building houses. However, the fact that cement would be completely wiped out as material by 2050 still seems quite unlikely. In other words, Gotland and Sweden need the cement industry. It is at File Hajdar that we have the opportunity to break limestone. It is File Hajdar that is the national national interest in mineral extraction. We should therefore see proposals that interfere with further lime mining in the light of the fact that we are talking about a national interest and that the consequences would be far-reaching for jobs, for the economy and ultimately for people. In view of this, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Government a little more about the position it makes in the interpellation response and what the government has repeated several times. I quote the interpellation answer: a fact that the government already communicated this summer is our view that, on behalf of Gotland, we consider that further measures relating to larger areas will not be needed to comply with Sweden's obligations under the EU's Species and Habitats Directive. ..................................................... I have two questions about this. The first is: What are the larger areas? The proposal now being drafted, which is not yet on the government table, is about 2,000 hectares. Is that a larger area? The second, and perhaps most important, is: does the government mean that it is only under the Species and Habitats Directive that new areas will not be designated, or are there other objectives and requirements that would allow the government to consider announcing new Natura 2000 sites anyway? Those were my initial questions. Will the government be able to stand firm on the importance of the industry, and does the government have any other reasons than the Species and Habitats Directive to announce new Natura 2000 sites?
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-832	Madam President, I would like Once again, I thank the interpeller for the opportunity to discuss this issue. I do not think it is too often to discuss it once a year. It is an important issue for Gotland but also an important question for other Swedish industry how to handle these issues. I think that the government, dealing with the issue last year, made it very clear that we are looking positively at developing business, including industry, on Gotland. The industry is an important part of Gotland's business today and will be so for a long time to come. Gotland's lime industry is important not only for the island but also for Sweden, and I am happy to see that it survives and that new lime can be opened. But it is a special environment on Gotland, which requires exploration and extraction in harmony with the high natural values there. I think we also agree on this, because Gotland is a unique natural environment that we have a responsibility to safeguard and ensure that it exists for future generations. In addition to the work that Peter Larsson is doing today and that I have so far only received positive signals about, they try to work with local and regional actors to develop a strong business programme that covers the SEK 100 million. There are discussions about how to work with industrial development on the island in the long term. There are such discussions, but we will see what proposals Peter Larsson will come up with to the government at the beginning of the summer. It should be mentioned that there has already been a positive response for the cement industry. The University of Applied Sciences has granted a number of courses, one of which relates precisely to polytechnic education to operating and maintenance technicians on Gotland. It is a two-year post-secondary education of 400 higher education credits, with a quarter of the education placed with one of the employers Cementa, Region Gotland's technical administration, Visby's abattoir, Nordkalk or Sweprod. Ensuring skills provision in the future is an important issue for the development of industry. It changes into the discussion we have had about the new industrialisation strategy, which I have pushed forward and which means that we need to look at what we can do in various areas to strengthen the opportunities for industry to develop. On Gotland, skills provision is an important part of developing the cement industry. I understand that we want to have a discussion on future possible Natura 2000 sites, but again, for the formal: there has been no request to the government for this. We have not received any proposal from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The government, both in this and previous interpellation responses, is very clear that we believe that, with the measures we have now taken on Gotland, we comply with the Species and Habitats Directive. That's the assessment we made at the time. Then it is true that county boards can come in with other priorities that have more to do with national priorities, but it is another regulatory framework that applies to this. We will have to wait and see if the county administrative boards come to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and what the work then does for assessment to the government on this issue. It is a bit difficult for me to comment on issues that have not yet been raised to the government. For me as Minister of Economic Affairs, however, it is that we had never made an investment of 100 million SEK on Gotland if we had not thought that there are opportunities to develop both industry and other business on Gotland and that it is important, not only for the island but for Sweden.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-841	Madam President, I would like The Gotland package that Peter Larsson is currently developing will be presented on 16 June this year. It's not ready yet. I don't have full insight into what he's going to present. But I'd still say I'm hopeful about it. I believe, above all, that the survey of the business sector being carried out at the moment will be valuable to local politicians. The survey – not only the 100 million – will be worth a lot to those who care about Gotland's future. As far as the lime industry on Gotland is concerned, I would like to continue on the track with regard to Natura 2000 and the special nature. The lime industry is important as a cog in a fairly large machine. Many people in the debate are saying that the stone industry will be almost completely automated, that jobs are few and that Gotland should invest in tourism instead, much as if it were an opposite. I note that the cement industry is important. It creates jobs around transport, services, shipping, tourism and public services. We can look at the deficiency types that have been addressed in the past. As far as basic rock and rock are concerned, we are achieving the targets we have set ourselves, that is to say 20% protection. If we look at the hipsippa, which has been debated for almost ten to fifteen years, we see that we are protecting 50% of the stock with the current Natura 2000 areas. To be honest, the greatest threat to them is no longer calcium mining but deer. I would also like to problematise Natura 2000 and that it matters. There is quite rightly no proposal on the table yet. However, Natura 2000 will ultimately also have an impact on the supply activities. What is Natura 2000 sites that have been designated by the Government through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Board cannot be used in the process that you need to have with the Land and Environment Court when you want to apply for a permit of use – you cannot use it as a disposal land. It's gonna be a problem. Although Natura 2000 does not directly affect lime mining, there is still a link. To sum up, we have met the European requirements. Additional Natura 2000 sites risk the future lime and cement industries. That will not happen tomorrow or this term of office. Current breaking companies have the possibility to break for maybe 25 to 30 more years. However, for an industry that has such a long planning horizon and is already planning for CCS and other things until 2050, a negative decision today may mean that the last initial investment is made. My contribution to the Government and to the entire Government is that the Government should look at what has been promised in the past and in a test of specifically File Hajdar express a rather hesitant approach to new Natura 2000 sites, because we no longer have the European requirements to follow, but it is now a matter of national requirements and wishes versus a national interest. It's a difficult balance. I can admit that. However, what I have mentioned in the past should in any case entail some new input into the trial that the government has before it.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-848	Madam President, I would like First of all, on the work that Peter Larsson is doing: I really do not think that I, too, know all the details about the proposal that does not yet exist. On the other hand, I have taken the view that many actors have expressed a great deal of interest in the work, regionally and locally, and also feel involved in the work that is being done. I think that is a good prerequisite, so that you do not discuss a Gotland package of 100 million SEK that only comes from above without working with regional and local forces and starting from that when working with regional business development. I think that's a good model. What I understand from the conversations I have had with Peter Larson at the beginning of this process is also looking at the industrial parts to see what can be done further to strengthen the position of industry on the island. We will see what proposals will be made, but that is at least the picture that I have been given. It is true that this debate says that there is no formal proposal on the table of the government. It will therefore be a little difficult to say how the government will take a position on a proposal that does not exist. When you're worried about issues, I think it's important that you don't go ahead before you know which proposals will actually be there – it's important to say that. I think we are clear in this interpellation response that the government makes the assessment that further measures involving larger areas will not be needed to fulfil Sweden's obligations under the EU's Species and Habitats Directive. In addition to complying with Sweden's obligations regarding the EU Species and Habitats Directive, the aim is also to address any other nationally identified shortcomings in the network. That's the mission there is. According to the Environmental Protection Agency's directive, identifying to address these shortcomings in the network is important, while the work on the shortcomings identified by the Commission is a lower priority. For nationally identified deficiencies, a positive landowner's anchorage is particularly important for the selection of the area. The Government assumes that the County Administrative Board will follow the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's guidelines in this part.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-853	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by thanking you for an urgent debate. As I said, this is a matter which is not yet on the table of the government. Nevertheless, I think that there is reason to call the Council of State to the House to obtain the government's position. If I understand the Government correctly, the Government stands by the position that Gotland needs a viable industry and that it continues to have a core of the cement industry. Following the decision on new Natura 2000 sites on 31 August last year, the government has reiterated its position in the interpellation response. If it is fixed, I can say that it pleases me and Gotland. I hope that the government will stand by this. New Natura 2000 sites at File Hajdar can put an end to lime mining by 2050. It worries me. It can feel far away, but for an industry that has a planning horizon of 30 to 50 years, this may mean that the last initial investment has already been made. I therefore hope that the government in its forthcoming trial will be hesitant and will consider saying no to proposals that put an end to lime mining on Gotland. It would be to live up to the promises that have been made and the position that has been taken, not least with this interpellation response. I think it would be good for the government to keep its promises.
i-fcf748591f2f85b7-857	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to thank Jesper Skalberg Karlsson for the interpellation and his commitment to business development on Gotland. A prerequisite for regional development is the ability to cooperate and the ability to work together to develop a region. This work is currently under way on Gotland, with the condition of the SEK 100 million that the government has set aside for this. I also hope that this can be a good result. It also includes developing the industry on the island. It was specifically mentioned in the mission to Peter Larsson, and I will continue to work for that as Minister of Economic Affairs. If there is a proposal to the government, the government is obliged to handle and prepare it, and we will do so in the usual way. The government will make an overall assessment of the proposals received based on the fundamental discussions that we have had in this interpellation debate and earlier. Thank you for the debate.
