i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Parliament is today to decide on the Government's proposal to introduce a provision on amortisation requirements in the Banking and Financing Business Act. This means that when banks and other credit institutions lend money to finance a home, they must also have conditions under which the borrower will normally amortise – pay back – on his loan. A robust amortisation culture strengthens households' financial resilience. It is a cornerstone of sound credit operations and, at the same time, helps to keep debt accumulated at levels that do not expose society to macro-economic risks. The background to this legislation is, of course, the increase in indebtedness that we can see in Swedish households. Since the mid-1990s, household debt has grown much faster than income. The debt-to-GDP ratio has not really, but almost doubled during this period. An important explanation for the rise in debt is, of course, the rise in prices that has simultaneously characterized our housing market. A lot of this can be attributed to structural factors such as sales, conversions, rents, changes in the tax system and a substantial reduction in interest rates. Nevertheless, according to Finansinspektionen, a large part remains, about a quarter of the increase in the debt ratio, which cannot be explained structurally. And even if Swedish households have margins to meet interest expenses even if interest rates were to be raised properly, income would fall or house prices would fall, high loan risk would be macroeconomic. In order to cope with major disruptions, households would have to reduce their consumption, with negative effects on growth and unemployment. International studies also show that households with indebtedness above 50% of the market value of the dwelling are more likely to reduce their consumption in the event of unforeseen events. Since Sweden has had a weak amortisation culture and still has long repayment periods, where many with debts over 50 per cent do not amortise at all or only amortise a little, there is good reason to work with legislation for a better order in the future. International organisations such as the OECD, the IMF and the European Commission also clearly point in their reviews to the private debt build-up as a risk in and for the Swedish economy. The proposal now partially approved by the committee is based on an agreement between the government and five other parties. During the committee's work, we have changed the proposal somewhat, which actually makes it even more robust. In particular, the Committee on Finance wants to limit the exemption for amortisation requirements in new production to five years. We can therefore limit the lock-in effects that the amortisation of the first owner of new production risks. I would also like to make it clear here that the derogation does not provide for a legislative grace period for new production. The banks can, and should probably also quite often, still require the borrower to amortise. The committee also stresses, like the government in the bill, that forestry and agricultural property should not be covered and that, as in the past, these requirements should apply to new credits, not to old loans. It should also be possible to obtain an exemption from amortisation if, for example, a person suffers sickness or divorce or a loved one disappears. Amorisation requirements, of course, are not the only answer to household debt build-up and an increasingly tough situation in the housing market. Perhaps the most important effort is to increase housing from the low levels we have had in the last decade. Especially important is that rental apartments are built. The government has also proposed measures to increase the supply of housing. The largest investment in housing policy in a few decades was launched last spring and covers over SEK 11 billion in 2016 and 2017. Through investment support, resources can also be directed towards the construction of more affordable rental and affordable rental apartments so as to reduce pressure on the housing market as well as the need for households to go into debt. In addition, the government has set aside money to give municipalities clear incentives to contribute to increased housing construction. Mr President, I would like to Today, however, the committee proposes that we introduce a provision on amortisation requirements. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-15	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the bill on amortisation requirements. There have been many tours, but now a united committee is behind these proposals. The change is implemented in the Banking and Finance Business Act and is thus addressed to credit institutions. The reason why we want to implement amortisation requirements is that we see that household debt has increased significantly. People's debt in relation to disposable income has increased, and house prices have risen at a rapid pace. Several heavy international assessors have pointed out the weak amortisation culture as a problem and recommended Sweden to increase the amortisation rate of mortgages and to introduce a amortisation requirement. Mr President, I would like to When my parents were new homeowners and borrowers, it was obvious that there was a mortgage. You'd reduce your debts. You never know what's going on. At that time, interest rates were still as high as 16 percent during certain periods. Still, debts were grazed. In recent years, amortisation has not been nearly as obvious. In September 2011, only 44 per cent of households with a loan ratio of between 70 and 85 per cent amortised. Many, especially in metropolitan areas, relied on a substantial increase in value and thus did not see the need to amortise. Then the risks will also be greater. If the price rise fails, the margins will be smaller. If prices fall, those who have to sell quickly may end up in long-standing economic problems. I don't think many people really think that could happen. But it was not long ago that the bubble burst in Copenhagen. Prices had been pushed up quickly, and expectations were high. Then came the financial crisis at the same time as the construction started. Even if you do not see such a clear risk here and now, you still need to have margins for the unforeseen. Amortisation requirements have also become tougher on the banks' side in recent times. Nowadays, banks for new borrowers usually require a rather large-scale amortisation. Now 94 per cent of households with new loans and a loan ratio of between 70 and 85 per cent are amortising. At the same time, clear guidelines with tough amortisation requirements from the Bankers' Association to the banks have been blocked and have been rolled back for competition reasons. The banks therefore also see the need for regulatory regulation and are broadly in favour of the legislative proposal now being implemented. The Bankers' Association believes that without a statutory requirement, it cannot be excluded that we fall back into a situation where a significant proportion of borrowers do not amortise their mortgages, which would reinforce the risks already present on the Swedish housing market. With self-regulation on amortisation, there would have been a lack of flexibility in legal requirements. However, large parts of the actual application of the amortisation requirement will be governed by regulations from Finansinspektionen and the Government, not by law. It is extremely important that the government closely follows the effects of the regulations so that there are no unexpected or unwanted effects. I also think that there is reason to follow developments and see how different reforms affect each other in relation to each other. The more taps you turn, the more power you can get. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight a couple of important exceptions to the amortisation requirement. When people encounter something unexpected, such as sickness, separation or unemployment that can have quite a major economic impact, it is important to make a temporary break in the amortisation. For example, those who intend to sell their home in order to adapt to a new economic situation should have time to do so without incurring unnecessary debts in the meantime. Another very important exception is what applies to agricultural and forestry properties. In its position, the committee further stresses the importance of these being completely exempted from the amortisation requirement – something that the government has already written in the bill. There should be no room for them or parts of them to be included, as this would involve major administrative difficulties and difficult boundaries. Rules are something companies need less of and no more. For us, it has also been important to counteract retroactivity. It is important that those who have already concluded loan agreements on certain premises can expect them to continue to apply. After the Law Council has pointed out that it should be clearly stated in the Act that it only applies to new credits signed after the Act's entry into force, the Committee has adopted the Legislative Council's proposal for clarification. There have been objections that, despite this, there may be retroactiveity when borrowers take out additional loans. For them, the amortisation rate would be based on the full leverage ratio. And there has been concern that this may lead households to opt for a blank loan instead of using the home as collateral. This is an example of an effect that we expect the government to follow very closely. The bill proposes an eternal exemption from amortisation for newly produced dwellings. There was political agreement behind the proposal because we want to encourage new construction. However, several referrals were very negative. Many argued that there was a risk of significant price falls when newly produced apartments were then resold and favoured at least a time limit in the exemption. We have therefore agreed in committee to set a five-year limit for the exemption from amortisation. We are not supposed to create new problems while trying to remedy others. Overall, we believe that an amortisation requirement can contribute to a healthier amortisation culture, which in turn increases the household's resilience and makes them financially more resilient to various disruptions. It is the responsibility of the government to monitor developments after the amortisation requirement has started to apply and, if necessary, to adjust the regulations so that there are no undesirable effects. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-31	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are going to decide to introduce amortisation requirements after a long and difficult process with, in particular, legal obstacles along the journey. I agree with much of what Fredrik Olovsson and Maria Malmer Stenergard say. Today, after negotiations, we have a united parliament that supports the introduction of amortisation requirements, but at the same time I think that today's decision raises a number of questions. In a list of the world's most indebted economies in all categories, Sweden ended up in second place, only the kind of Japan. Then it is not a question of our sovereign debt being large or our companies being heavily leveraged. No, it is household indebtedness that has run out in recent years. The balance over household indebtedness has been pointing upwards at an unbroken pace. According to Statistics Sweden, SCB, households' loans have increased by SEK 1,100 billion since the beginning of 2008, or by 56 per cent. When it takes this long for the policy to react and even introduce such a small barrier to debt as an amortisation requirement, you wonder if the policy is capable of delivering. The process of introducing an amortisation requirement has taken over a year, but the debate and proposals have been much longer. Sweden is a small and open economy. This means that we are quickly affected by decisions in the world around us. It also requires us to be able to both decide on preventive measures in good time and to take rapid decisions when necessary. The question is whether we have the political capacity. When I see the process of amortization, I'm a little hesitant. In practice, the legal requirement has already been implemented with banks tightening up their lending. But it is sad that a legislative process is required for banks to take social responsibility. But perhaps that is precisely what shows that we cannot pass on responsibility and power to the banks. Another question we politicians have to ask ourselves is whether the amortisation requirement is sufficient. Five years ago, the requirement for self-contribution was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent of the cost of a home purchase. It had a small impact, but households' indebtedness still rose. I don't think the amortisation requirement will help a lot. The Riksbank's calculations show, as we have seen several times in the committee, that the amortisation requirement only affects new borrowers and therefore has only a small effect in the long term. More measures are therefore needed. The main measure affecting the entire stock of loans would be to reduce the interest rebates. Today, the government is helping to increase debt and thereby create financial instability. When households can afford to borrow more money due to interest rebates, prices of dwellings increase and indebtedness increases. We can't have that. It is necessary for the policy to agree on a reduction in interest rebates as soon as possible, because there is no lack of risk warnings. Interest rebates also have a very doubtful distributional policy profile. They benefit rich people in short, but we're all in on it. At the same time, the interest deduction is a ticked bomb that the Konjunkturinstitutet has warned for can equal SEK 60 billion or more than 1 percent of the bnp in 2024 if nothing is done. That is why we urgently need to introduce a ceiling so that the rich who have extreme interest costs are not subsidised by our welfare. There are two parties in Sweden that have tried to be government-supporting and take responsibility for the state finances, and that is the Social Democrats and the Moderates. Unfortunately, it does very little about household indebtedness more than talking. Minister of Finance Andersson may consider stepping down interest rebates if they had done so at the same time as the moderate-led government of Reinfeldt removed the property tax. It has been a while now, and the debt problems are here and now. But the Moderates are hardly better. During their time in power, the property tax was removed, the property tax was removed, rents were converted into tenant-owners and construction was effectively stopped. There you can talk about throwing more wood on the fire so that household indebtedness would really rise. I think it is time to move from words to deeds and do something about the interest rebate now. Some economists are also advocating the introduction of a debt-to-GDP ceiling. I personally have more doubts about that measure. Today we have a great segregation, especially in our cities. If our income directly without an overall test causes us to be sifted away from certain areas, I believe that it risks further strengthening segregation. Instead, a policy of action is needed to increase the construction of rental apartments. I am therefore pleased that the Left Party, together with the government, has negotiated the biggest housing policy initiative in 20 years. It is a policy that can make a difference and that can mean that as a young person you can get a tenancy to live in instead of debting yourself over your ears to even move away from home. Having said that, Mr President, I am in favour of the draft decision contained in the report.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-47	Mr President, I would like to In a presentation, the Riksbank proposes that we grant the Riksbank a credit agreement to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to finance loan funds to the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust (PRGT), whose lending is aimed at 69 low-income countries. Similar matters have been discussed in the Finance Committee in spring 2013 and autumn 2012. Then, as now, the Swedish Democrats have reserved themselves. At that time it was about SEK 176 million, but now it is a much larger amount. It is a loan of SEK 5.8 billion to be exact. There are two dimensions to this issue. One is purely economic and the other is purely principled and perhaps most important in this context. Mr President, I would like to I'll start with the first one. Last December, the US Congress approved an agreement which has doubled the IMF's lending capacity to 65 billion dollars. It therefore takes a greed out of the ordinary to claim that the IMF needs more money. I strongly question the added value of Sweden providing an additional SEK 5.8 billion. This is a small amount for the IMF, but at the same time it involves a risk – however small or large it may be – for Sweden. Furthermore, the interest rate we receive for lending is modest 0.05%. It represents not only a substandard risk premium but also an alternative cost of SEK 28 million annually. In practice, this means that those who vote in favour are prepared and willing to pay the IMF to take our money. Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that the Swedish Democrats are in favour of effective aid that is involved in building up countries in poorer parts of the world, but we differ from other parties in that our principled starting point is that this type of activity should be under Swedish control and supervision. We would rather see a line where we renouncing aid to concentrate it on aid efforts where we can make a concrete difference and where we can work with clear results follow-up. That should be the starting point for all forms of assistance and assistance work. When the distance between lenders and borrowers is reduced, responsibility can be more easily demanded by the electorate. The distance between creditors – which may be considered to be the Swedish people – on the one hand, and the IMF and borrowers on the other is too long. It creates a problem in the form of a democratic deficit. At one end we have borrowing countries such as Uzbekistan, Zimbabwe and Somalia. Like all other banks, the IMF imposes a number of far-reaching requirements for obtaining loans. There is, of course, nothing strange about making demands, but it is about what requirements are made. These are requirements that restrict national self-determination, demand for the privatisation of water infrastructure, demands for liberalisation, demands for a reduction in welfare, demands for a reduction in pensions, and so on – the list can be long. The question should therefore be asked: is the outsourcing of democracy something that benefits developing countries? How does it help them to shape an independent economic policy? In the middle we have the IMF. The IMF currently has 188 Member States. The Governor's Board is the highest decision-making body, which in turn has delegated almost all the power of decision to the Executive Board. These include countries such as the United States, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Russia, China and Saudi Arabia. Furthermore, there are committees, subcommittees, cooperation bodies and other bureaucratic formations. Mr President, I would like to On the other end, we have the lenders. As late as January, Sweden's voting power decreased from modest 1 per cent to 0.93 per cent of the IMF's total votes. Does anyone still think we have influence in the IMF? Historically, we have been good at having influence over our own resources, but now we have increasingly chosen to hand over resources to both the IMF and the EU, thereby reducing our own influence. As I said at the beginning of my speech, this presentation raises an important question of principle, namely the view of democracy. Do we want a monetary institution to be given such great financial muscle without being elected? I don't think it's completely straightforward. Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-61	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. The proposal means that the Riksdag now gives its consent to the Riksbank to enter into a credit agreement with the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, of a maximum of 500 million so-called special drawing rights, which corresponds to SEK 5.8 billion. The background is that the IMF has turned to a number of Member States in addition to the 14 Member States which are currently lenders and asked whether we can provide additional loan funds to the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust (PRGT) to cover low-income countries' needs for loans up to the mid-2020s. The current resources in the loan system are expected to be used in 2016. Mr President, I would like to It is important to know for the members of the Riksdag that the PRGT is financed alongside the IMF's regular lending. It in turn consists of two different parts: one loan part and one interest subsidy component. The subsidy component is self-financed, including through the transfer of part of the profits from the IMF's gold sales in 2009 and 2010 to the Fund. Sweden is a major donor of subsidies to the PRT and has contributed by the Riksbank having transferred our share of the profits from gold sales in autumn 2012 and spring 2013. Sweden has also participated in the subsidy part of the fund through aid funds, by 2010. However, Sweden has not previously contributed to the loan part of the fund. As I said, the subsidy part of the PRGT is expected to be self-financing in the future, which means that the need for loan resources will increase. What suggests that Sweden should now also contribute to the loan part is that Sweden with the Nordic-Baltic constituency has historically been very positive to the IMF's work with the low-income countries. This work has also been successful. We believe that the IMF plays an important role in multilateral development cooperation that no other organisation can fulfil in the same way. Several relatively financially strong countries already contribute to the PRGT loan component, such as Denmark, Belgium, France, Holland, Japan, China, Canada, Norway and Switzerland. The committee believes, however, that it is important for Sweden to participate in the multilateral development work and also notes that the credit risk associated with lending via PRT is very low. It is important for the members of the Riksdag to know that, as a guarantee for the loans, there is currently a risk reserve equivalent to just over 60 per cent of the outstanding loans. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, it is important to note in particular that the committee states that there may be reason to question whether the current lending is entirely within the framework of the Riksbank's core business. As I have said a few times now, participating in and contributing to multilateral development cooperation is very important. The question, however, is, according to the committee, how far the Riksbank's mandate actually extends in this respect. It is therefore reasonable to ask whether it is no more a part of foreign and aid policy than a task for the Central Bank itself. Several other countries have chosen to decide on government guarantees where the central banks provide lending. The committee therefore believes that liability relations and financing of the Swedish IMF's commitments should be seen in a forthcoming review of the Sveriges Riksbank Act. Pending such a review, however, the committee believes that it is important that Sweden, through the Riksbank, contributes to the loan part of the PRT.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-68	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the previous very nationalist speech, I felt compelled to get up and give my view on the matter. I'll do it from three perspectives. The first perspective concerns international institutions. I believe it is increasingly important in a globalised world that we have and are dependent on international cooperation and cooperation. The IMF and the World Bank have played an important role in this. We have seen this not least with the problems we have had in Europe, which have contributed both with skills and with financial instruments. It is important that Sweden is part of building the international institutions even stronger with the expertise I believe that Sweden can contribute. It is not entirely clear that at no time do we ourselves end up in a situation where we become dependent on a well-functioning international institutional system that can contribute if we get into trouble. The second perspective is economic. For obvious reasons and from a moral point of view, it is quite clear that there is a great value in helping to lift poor countries and poor people out of poverty. It is an obligation that we in the developed world have. I do not need to develop that much more, because I think there are many of us who agree on that. There is also another economic value, and that is that when developing countries emerge from poverty, it creates growth that benefits the whole of global society. It also benefits the developed countries. Sweden is an export-dependent country, and the more countries that can emerge from poverty and participate in economic growth, the better for us. There are therefore two perspectives on this too. The third perspective is constitutional. Criticism has been directed against the Riksbank when it comes to whether this really belongs to the Riksbank's core business. The Riksbank itself is based on the Sveriges Riksbank Act's Chapter 7. 4 §. There are differences of opinion as to whether such agreements may be concluded. That is why I think it is good that a parliamentary inquiry and review of the Riksbank Act are being launched. But when you do, I think it's important that you bring the first two perspectives that I talked about. It is important to consider what role the Riksbank has today in relation to 30 or 20 years ago or perhaps as late as ten years ago. Is the role the same today as before? How should we shape the Riksbank for the future? What needs do we, the Riksbank, the international institutions and the international community have of the respective central banks around the world? I hope that these issues will be taken with them into the parliamentary inquiry, because I think it is important not only to see to what the Riksbank has been but also to what the Riksbank will become. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-79	Mr President, honourable Members and the Minister. In times like these, it is important that we talk about what we can do between our countries and across our borders. There are forces that want to stop people and flows across borders. There are people who want to cross borders but who today find it difficult to do so. Today we are discussing trade. Today we will discuss how Sweden can export more. That is to talk about something that is among the most important things there is, namely crossing borders and doing so in a good way. Mr President, I would like to The government has presented an export strategy. And that is a good thing, because Sweden is a strong trade-dependent country. Exports are dependent on imports, and therefore increased world free trade is also a top priority, as it develops skills across borders. However, the fact that a product is exported from Sweden does not mean that it is only Swedish. As much as 40% of exports from manufacturing have actually been produced in other countries. Therefore, it becomes too limited to talk only of an export strategy. Sweden needs a trade strategy that takes into account both imports and exports as well as parts of developed trade. Large companies are growing in the number of employees outside Sweden. In order to stimulate increased domestic and also foreign investment in Sweden, a favourable business environment with generally good economic conditions in Sweden is essential. Both corporate tax and expert tax must be internationally competitive in order to attract investment and talent. If Sweden is to attract the best talent in the world to companies at home, there must be competitive rules. It is therefore a good thing to review staff options that are under way and that will strengthen the possibilities for this recruitment. Trade in services is growing and today accounts for about a quarter of Sweden's total trade. Today's and, not least, tomorrow's values are increasingly generated by services linked to the original product. Unfortunately, the export strategy lacks a clear idea of how to develop exports of services. The government is stuck in an old notion that it is industrially produced physical products that generate main values. As a result, the government has also failed to see services as a crucial competitive advantage in the export strategy. Taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the services sector is new industrialisation in the true sense of the word. It is also striking to see how the government here has totally missed welfare services as a potential export success. Swedish actors in welfare services are internationally of high quality and are in many ways groundbreaking. There is a great potential for Swedish welfare to contribute to the rest of the world. It is also clear that the Government's export strategy has a top-down perspective. It is the state and Business Sweden that are the actors, and they are the ones who will solve the problems. At the same time, the conditions and competitiveness of companies have weakened, including through increased taxes, government uncertainty on the energy issue and a somewhat vague stance in the free trade negotiations in the United States. Here, Sweden could play a much clearer and louder role. There are also opportunities, Mr President. Migration is a matter for everyone in every context, and I think we should talk about this in a trade debate as well. Migration flows are an important part of personal mobility to and from Sweden. This can also create opportunities for cross-border trade. Entrepreneurs born abroad often have a good knowledge of business culture, politics, language and religion in their former home countries. As cosmopolitans, they are particularly well placed to trade across borders and can also be a guide to other Swedish entrepreneurs. Connecting contacts between Swedish export companies and newcomers to Sweden is very valuable for many reasons. It is also a challenge for many with immigrant backgrounds to enter the Swedish labour market. Mr President, I would like to I've been talking about a top-down perspective. A new concept in the export strategy and in the government's trade policy is Team Sweden. This suggests, at first sight, a good ambition, and I absolutely believe that it does. But when you look closer Team Sweden turns out to be rather a word construction of obviouss and efforts that are largely already being made today. As Team Sweden has been presented, it lacks a clear function, organisation, mandate and goals. The other day I did the experiment to search Team Sweden online to find the phone number there. I called and asked for Mikael Damberg. It turned out then that I did not come to Team Sweden but I had come to the event agency Team Sweden on Västerlånggatan. Actually, they didn't know who Mikael Damberg was. I hope that they will take part in that debate so that they will have a better insight into this. But this may show what Team Sweden is and what a lack of impact it has had so far. Mr President, I would like to When you drop a crown on the ground and look for it, where do you want to look? Well, somewhere nearby, as close as you can. Local and remote markets are about the same thing. It is very important that Sweden exports to new markets that are far away where a large part of the growth is located. But we must not forget the domestic market, our local market. Today, eight of the top ten exporting countries in Europe account for more than half of Swedish exports. Everyone also knows that it is more expensive to acquire a new customer than to care for and develop a previous one. Notwithstanding the opportunities to break new ground in the emerging markets, there is still a great potential to exploit in those markets where Sweden's exports are already strong. The export strategy talks a lot about seeking new markets, and that is a good thing. But don't forget that there are in fact markets at close range that we have tradition of developing. Sweden should play a greater role there. Mr President, I would like to Small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones that grow the most, and that is where the potential is greatest for developing the jobs of the future. All business starts locally and therefore export advisory services should also be locally and regionally available. There are many chambers of commerce and small and medium-sized enterprises that can do this with exports. That is why we in the Alliance want to see the opening-up of regional export advice and the procurement of these services. By opening up the procurement of advisory services, companies with export ambitions are given the opportunity to develop their export skills into local businesses. By opening up to more players in the market, Business Sweden can thus focus its efforts more on promotion activities. Mr President, I would like to An export strategy is good, but capable, knowledgeable and ambitious export companies are the ones to manage the workshop. The government should, of course, take the lead and invest fully in supporting this trade. For the first time in decades, Sweden today lacks a purely commercial minister. I have great respect for Mikael Damberg, and I will perhaps say that in future debates, because we will discuss this many times. But I would like Sweden's Minister for Enterprise, Innovation and Trade to focus on the important trade tasks. Sweden needs a full-time trade minister. Through its government, Sweden needs to demonstrate in active action that Swedish trade is the highest priority. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 and reservation 3.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-102	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to talk about exports, which are important for both the Swedish economy and Swedish jobs. It is therefore gratifying that the government has developed an export strategy. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 8. The Swedish Democrats have a positive view of free and open trade in goods and services. Trade reduces protectionism and conveys contacts and skills between countries and continents. Global trade is thus a major contributor to both increased prosperity and reduced poverty. We believe that good trade relations and competitively neutral global trade agreements are of paramount importance and that they generate a well-balanced trade policy and contribute to healthy competitive conditions. This is in the interests of: Sweden's industry and its trading partners, which together account for about one fifth of our GDP and three quarters of exports while directly or indirectly employing around 1 million people. Trade is thus the backbone of the Swedish economy. The Swedish Democrats intend to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish industry through increased trade. Our goal is to increase market shares, growth and profit margins for Swedish companies and that this is done in real terms with comparable countries. However, we see a need for additional factors regarding competition. We therefore believe that there is a need for an overall competition review and hence a review of the so-called competitive factors. At the same time, however, the Swedish Democrats want to emphasise that it is the market's task to review the competitiveness of their own sectors and that policies should not go in and regulate in detail at the minimum possible level, but we see the need for additional factors and an overall competition review regarding larger measurement areas as a whole. The Swedish democrats are positive about imports and their importance for Swedish competitiveness. An increasing number of products contain parts produced elsewhere in the world, and the chain is to some extent positive, although the desire for geographical proximity to value chains should be taken into account. Swedish companies are allowed to take part in a global market with an increased variety of products. This increases the competitiveness of domestic production and thus also benefits exports. However, we believe that the need for imports needs to be investigated in the long term. Political instability or pressure in exporting nations, monopolistic positions of countries on certain products or natural causes can change the global trade market. When it comes to Swedish competitiveness, we look positively at the prospects that Sweden has. Our party is in favour of a policy that continues to strengthen Swedish industry's export opportunities through good trade relations and world-leading products, especially when it comes to high-tech services and products high up the value chain. Our vision is to continue the development by refining the existing national competitive advantages and thereby strengthening Sweden's market share as well as to take part in new and growing international growth regions such as India, China and South America. We see that this benefits the entire national business chain in the form of small individual subcontractors to larger clusters of joint ventures. Mr President, I would like to I met the President of India during his state visit to Sweden. The President then made it clear that India wants good trade relations with Sweden and that it welcomes Swedish companies in India. India is a large growth market, and the Swedish Democrats believe that it is important that Sweden meets these new opportunities with a deliberate policy. We see India as a future important trading partner for Sweden with great growth potential. We have also understood a goodwill on the part of India to develop trade relations with Sweden, and we believe that Sweden, via Business Sweden, should give India a higher priority in its operations. In September last year, parts of the Committee on Economic Affairs visited the United States. We were then told that New York is now implementing a solid energy efficiency efficiency of New York City. This energy efficiency will last for several decades and sooner or later spread to the rest of the United States. The Nordic countries possess much of the technology and solutions that the United States is asking for. Denmark and Danish companies have been involved in exporting their solutions and technology at an early stage. Swedish companies have this energy efficiency potential for exports to the USA. Business Sweden should therefore be given the task of working for Swedish companies to establish themselves on the US market. I felt that the Americans have a good and positive view of Sweden and Swedish companies. Swedish brands are considered to represent high quality. This is something that Sweden should obviously take advantage of. Business Sweden is a good way to do that. Another sector with great potential is Swedish food production. Green industries, including food production, which employs an estimated 400 000 people in Sweden, have an export value equivalent to SEK 70 billion. The Swedish Democrats welcome the government's initiative to develop a Swedish food strategy and believe that the government should continue to work to promote the export of Swedish food. In order to be better at exporting Swedish food, we share the view that the government should support food companies in their competence development when it comes to exports.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-119	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a very export-dependent country. It is also exports that have formed the basis for the well-being that we have built and built up. It is good that the government has now presented a proposal for an export strategy for Sweden. That is also something that we are going to debate today. Mr President, I would like to More than half of what we produce every year, we export to other countries. But there are also opportunities to be even more successful. In fact, Sweden has fallen behind many other European countries since the mid-1990s. It is therefore important that Sweden is a country that stands up well in competition with other countries. Every day, companies decide where to put the next investment – is it in Sweden or is it somewhere else? In order for us to become more competitive, it is important to reduce the costs for companies, not the other way round. This was done by the Alliance government, for example through reduced corporate tax and reduced costs of hiring. Today's left-wing government seems to want to do the opposite, and it does not benefit Swedish exports. Mr President, I would like to The Government is now investing more than SEK 300 million annually in increasing Swedish exports. I don't mind-- on the contrary. However, given the large tax increases that are being placed at the same time on the Swedish companies, I can only say that the initiative is modest. The government has announced that it will already this year raise taxes by just over SEK 27 billion for business – i.e. increasing the costs of hiring young people, removing parts of RUT and ROT, increasing the cost of hiring older people over 65 years of age and more. How 300 million can compensate for a loss of 27 000 million is a mystery to me. The government has now also implemented an increase in petrol and diesel taxes without making a green tax exchange and reducing, for example, employers' contributions. If the government also enforces the kilometre tax it has flagged for, I can say straight away that it will affect Swedish exports. The ore, steel and forest are transported long distances, and these goods are of great importance for jobs and the Swedish economy. Instead of chasing the emissions, the minority government is chasing the business community. Nor has the government made it possible for longer vehicles to travel on our roads, something that would have benefited both the climate and business. Mr President, I would like to The possibility of selling goods at competitive prices on the world market is necessary for the Swedish base industry. One of the most important conditions is therefore secure access to electricity at competitive prices. Another important aspect is the functioning of transport. Interference and congestion of the rail system are usually portrayed in the media as problems for delayed and frustrated train passengers in some big city. This perspective is not insignificant, but we rarely hear anything about the consequences for freight. The goods have no face and no voice. In order for Swedish exports to be competitive, it is important to build infrastructure throughout Sweden, not only in populated areas with a focus on commuting traffic. Mr President, I would like to The government's export strategy focuses mostly on traditional industry and far too little on service companies and their export opportunities. The welfare companies are hardly even mentioned, which is strange given the high international class that many actors in the field actually have. They could definitely contribute to improving the quality of school, health and long-term care worldwide. The only problem is that they do not always have a home market to refer to in procurement abroad, because the left-wing government is doing everything to put the hookbones of private welfare companies. It should be obvious that Swedish welfare has great opportunities to contribute to Swedish exports in the same way as ore and steel. Swedish tourism industry is one of the major basic industries today. In 2014, the tourism industry had a turnover of SEK 269 billion, of which foreign visitors accounted for 97 billion, and it created jobs for 159 000 people. Let's stop for a little while and compare employment in a few different industries in Sweden! The production of motor vehicles employs 62 000 people, the production of wood products, pulp and paper 74 000 persons, computer and IT services 101 000 persons and the production of steel and basic metals 107 000 persons. Then you will understand that the employment rate of the tourism industry of 159 000 people is high. Another interesting factor is that global tourism by 2030 is expected to increase by 66 percent. It is no surprise to me that Sweden can at least take one or a few percent of this. But to reach the goal there are some things to think about. We need a strategy for this. Then it is not possible to significantly increase the costs for entrepreneurs in this industry, as the margins are quite small as they already are. Increased petrol tax and higher costs of hiring are not the medicine to get the industry to develop. The Left Government is increasing its efforts to Visit Sweden to get more foreign tourists to Sweden. This is very good, but at the same time the government taxes the industry with SEK 1 500 million through, among other things, increased costs of hiring. That doesn't make any sense. Mr President, I would like to In addition, we need to invest more in destination development throughout Sweden. I do not know how many times you have to remember it: the whole of Sweden, not just some big cities. Therefore, as can be read in the export strategy, it is not only important to create more direct lines from Swedavia airports to destinations in other countries. It is equally important to encourage local and regional airports to do the same. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would just like to point out that I am very pleased that regional export centres are opening up. I believe that the proximity to such an export office is crucial for many local and regional companies to dare to make contact and take the step. However, we in the Alliance believe that we should not cross the river after water and build new structures, but take advantage of the expertise that is in place, for example in chambers of commerce and other things, where we already have export skills that can be useful.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-129	Mr President, I would like to The export strategy is a broad strategy that affects many areas. Exports are a cornerstone of Swedish welfare. By investing in the export industry, we also strengthen Sweden's rural areas, as it is often where the export industry is located, although the head office may be located in Stockholm. We are simply building a Sweden that sticks together. Sweden is engaged in extensive export promotion activities. This is done, among other things, through advice, export credits and export guarantees. But Amnesty, among other things, has criticised this activity for not being clearly linked to the work on human rights. For the Left Party, democracy and human rights are not negotiable. We stand up for human rights, no matter where, when and with what motives they are violated or violated. In February 2015, the Government presented a list of 26 countries to be prioritised until 2020 in the Government's export promotion work. The list includes a series of authoritarian regimes, such as Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates. At the same time, a lot of democratic countries are missing which are expected to have high growth in the coming years, such as Ghana, Peru, Mo ç ambique, Tunisia, Chile and Zambia. For me and the Left Party, this priority is very strange. In January of this year, The Economist wrote a long article on Saudi Arabia's economy. It states that Saudi Arabia's economy is going very badly. Over 80% of government revenue comes from oil sales. Now that oil prices have plummeted, Saudi revenues have also fallen dramatically. Prins bin Salman is now selling some of the crown jewels of the Saudi kingdom, namely the Aramco oil company. The Left Party believes that democracies should always be prioritised before dictatorships as trading partners for Sweden. In the letter that the Government has now put on the Riksdag's table on the Government's export strategy, there is no fully guiding principles for how Sweden's trade and export promotion activities should contribute to global development and support and safeguard human rights. This raises questions as to whether the government's trade policy is living up to the promise in the Government's 2015 foreign policy declaration that Sweden should be a strong voice in democracy, equality and solidarity. When political decisions are taken, new border barriers sometimes arise between countries if you do not think ahead of time. Sweden's membership of the EU has reduced barriers to trade within the EU, but has often increased them vis-à-vis other countries. In the export strategy, there is no basis for how the government intends to work to prevent new barriers to trade from arising. The government has a great responsibility for the border barriers that arise but also for reducing the border barriers that exist. Many of our largest export countries are not prioritised in the export strategy because the need for state support is less in order for Swedish companies to operate in the country. However, this does not mean that the existing barriers to borders do not have a major impact on Swedish exports and the Swedish economy. The clearest example for me in recent times is the unexamined effect on trade and exports due to border controls against Denmark. Therefore, I think that the government should work to reduce border barriers against our largest exporting countries such as Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom, Denmark and Finland today. The Left Party believes that in the long term all modes of transport should bear their socio-economic costs. Aviation, too, must contribute to emission reductions in order to achieve our climate and environmental objectives. Calculated per passenger-kilometre, aviation is the mode of travel that affects our environment most. Since aviation is not a climate-friendly mode of transport, it should only be used when other alternatives are not available. State involvement in aviation infrastructure is in some cases justified in order to ensure accessibility and regional development throughout the country. It is not justifiable for the state to finance aviation without taking into account our environmental objectives. This means that other modes of transport, not least rail investments, must be given priority in order to improve access to our international airports. We now see how economic doubts have arisen at several regional airports since the state left its responsibilities and allowed municipalities and regions to take over. This has involved more and more creative solutions, on the margins of legislation and regulation. And that has often meant that taxpayers in each municipality or region had black-peeettes when the business community should have direct flights. It is not a responsible policy. Therefore, the export strategy should not promote more direct flights abroad from regional and state airports, but instead prioritise so that it will be easy to get to our international airports in the Nordic region with rail, for example. In this report, the Left Party has done something as unusual as supporting a bourgeois proposal. But it is not because of the party designation but because it is a good proposal for the certification Swedish Welcome. The purpose of Swedish Welcome is to contribute to better guest experiences in the tourism industry and sustainable development of Swedish tourism. The association will give companies and other organisations within the Swedish tourism industry concrete guidance to create good experiences in a way that contributes to a sustainable society and for Sweden to become a leading nation in tourism. Strengthening the quality of the tourism industry through a label such as Swedish Welcome in order to raise awareness of the industry's actors about the importance of good treatment, environmental work and social thinking is something that could be done jointly in the Nordic countries. Many visitors from other continents are happy to travel here to experience the Nordic region. Therefore, the Riksdag should announce to the Government that it will work to ensure that it will continue to be possible to use and develop quality labels such as Swedish Welcome not only in Sweden but also throughout the Nordic region. Several international trade agreements are identified as an important part of Sweden's export strategy. However, several of the agreements risk undermining democratic values. Since the summer of 2013, negotiations have been ongoing between the EU and the US on a joint trade and investment agreement: TTIP. If the agreement were to become a reality, it would be the most extensive of its kind in the world. In parallel with the TTIP negotiations, there are several other current international trade agreements that may ultimately have a significant impact on Sweden. It is the EU's trade agreement with Canada, the CETA agreement, and the multilateral TISA service trade agreement. The common denominator for these international trade agreements is that they have content that can have major negative consequences for the countries covered. If these agreements become a reality, they will fundamentally affect the laws and regulations of the States concerned. All agreements have a clear focus on increased privatisation, liberalisation and weakening of legislation in a number of areas. In the long run, this could mean major deteriorations in areas such as agriculture, food safety, climate, the environment, energy, public services and workers' rights. The only real winners are the big companies, which are given greater opportunities through the agreements to increase their profits. The Left Party considers these agreements to be a fundamental threat to democracy. Deals in trade agreements should not take precedence over states' right to legislate and regulate. Large companies should not be allowed to dictate the conditions under which legislation should prevail in individual countries. That is why we say no to these types of trade agreements. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 4 and of reservation 11.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-147	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the fact that the Left Party proved able to reconsider old dogmas and also join the alliance profession! I thought it was interesting to hear Håkan Svenneling talk about authoritarian regimes and that democracy should always be prioritised, that democratic values should be marked and that human rights should be respected in trade. I know that Håkan Svenneling's party The Left Party has gone through a long journey. It's probably a party that, like the Moderates, is constantly evolving. But that attitude has not been stable over the years. It is striking that yesterday US President Barack Obama spoke in Cuba – live. There the ice has been broken since there have been trade embargoes for over 50 years. I know that the old Left Party, which was then the Communist Party, thought that Sweden should definitely trade with this country. The party has been careful to maintain contacts with Cuba. At the time, the Left Party, when the Communist Party, apparently did not believe that Cuba violated human rights, did not uphold democratic values or that democracy should always be a priority. It has turned out that the trade boycott has not worked. Does Håkan Svenneling think that the trade embargo should be broken, that we should start trading with Cuba and with other countries that perhaps do not fully comply with the principles we stand for?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-152	Mr President, I would like to I get a feeling of déjà vu from the Newscast this week with Birgitta Ohlsson from the Liberals and Hans Linde from the Left Party when Hans Rothenberg requests a reply on me. Birgitta Ohlsson tried to score domestic political points on a historic day when the President of the United States visited Cuba for the first time. Hans Rothenberg is on the same line and tries to score a political score of the Left Party's historical heritage. There are many of us who are happy about the softening of relations between the United States and Cuba. At last, the region has gone from being cold and chilly, despite the warm climate, to suddenly becoming a little softer, getting presidential visits, opening embassies and normalizing relations. I hope that trade and democratic development can be part of the normalised relations we see between the United States and Cuba. I hope that relations can go hand in hand so that the authoritarian part of Cuba's regime ends and instead becomes a democratic state. In this way, there can be foreign investment and increased trade. We know that there is a large Cuban minority living in the southern parts of the United States. They need to have contact with their relatives and friends and meet two business cultures to trade with each other. Cuba is well placed to develop, but democratic steps must be taken at the same time. The problem with the government's export strategy is that 26 countries are identified. Nine of them are democracies. The other countries are dictatorships or partly democracies. If you do not ensure that trade and democracy go hand in hand in the 17 countries, you only get a situation where Swedish products are exported but not Swedish democratic values. It's a development that I'm worried about. I hope that Sweden will adopt an ambitious programme to help the United States and Cuba to democratise Cuba and increase trade between countries.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-158	Mr President, I would like to It was beneficial to hear that trade can contribute to the promotion of human rights and the spread of democratic values. However, it is a contradiction in what Håkan Svenneling said in his speech, namely that countries that are not democratic, which do not fully respect human rights, should not be on a list of priorities for Swedish trade exports. There will be a contradiction. Cuba and Iran – there we have new markets that open up, not only for Swedish exports, but so that people in these countries can take advantage of the know-how we have and the progress we have made in Sweden and can also export. It's a reciprocity. It's one way to raise welfare. It's a way to make people freer in their everyday lives. We in the Moderates and the Alliance think it is good that we can use the trade as a tool. That is why we should now make further efforts to increase these exports. There is still a contradiction somewhere. Therefore, I would like to ask Håkan Svenneling: Does the Left Party believe that Cuba is a democracy? Does the Left Party believe that human rights and democratic values are respected there – so much so that it is possible not to invoke the principles that Håkan Svenneling mentioned in his speech, namely that Sweden should not trade with countries that have such limitations? I think we should welcome Cuba, and we should welcome Iran into the international sphere of trade. It'll be good for it. But it is also important what principles you have. You can't say one moment that this is our principle and the other moment that this is how we act.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-163	Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear that I cited two principles for why we should prioritise democracies over dictatorships. One was that, as Mr Rothenberg said, it is an authoritarian dictatorship. It is not through trade that we can strengthen democratic values in those countries – if we do not link the two policies with each other. The second was that these countries, which the government prioritises, are also oily or fossil-dependent economies. So they build their economy on the economy of the last century, that is, oil. We have recognised climate change and are entering a new world order. The world has signed the Paris Agreement and said that we should change the world. Why, then, should Sweden invest in those countries that are most oil dependent on everyone in the world and that are also dictatorships? It is really bad commercial economy of Sweden as a state. I also believe that Mr Rothenberg's example of Iran is somewhat questionable. When the West opened up to Iran and wanted to trade, Sweden was one of the first countries on the train. But it was not the people in Iran that were worried about, or the democratic values or the execution of union leaders in Iran. No, it was the Iran nuclear programme that they were worried about and wanted to dismantle. It simply traded a decommissioned nuclear programme for increased trade with Iran so that Iran could avoid some of the sanctions it had been subjected to and instead obtain Western products. These are not really the motives I think Sweden should have in its trade policy. Cuba is definitely not a democracy. There are major problems with democratic values. There is no satisfactory freedom of the press in Cuba. However, if we link trade with democratic values and human rights, I believe that Cuba can also move towards positive developments, which I hope we will see. I hope that Cuba, regardless of whether it elects a socialist or bourgeois government, will become a democratic country.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-169	Mr President, assembled Members, students, you at home and your loved ones! 36 hours ago, I returned from Brussels, a city that is waking up today after suffering the wrath and madness of the enemies of open society. The same world-renowned barbarism with the cape directed towards development and globalisation hit my hometown of Trollhättan six months ago. With bombs and swords, our open society is threatened. But we must not fold an inch to the forces of darkness. We must stand up for our values and our openness to the outside world. Mr President, I would like to Through globalisation, the world has moved to our home in small Sweden. At the same time, we and our goods have moved into a global market. Here in the very heart of commerce is our future prosperity. It is about goods, capital and people travelling across borders and shrinking our world. Especially interesting are the cosmopolitan entrepreneurs who are born abroad and who come to our country with good knowledge of other markets. We in Sweden need to make better use of this. Free trade is the foundation of prosperity in Sweden and other industrialised countries. Free trade leads to more efficient management of resources and faster dissemination of technology. This is how we spread energy-efficient solutions, for the benefit of both people and our climate. We are now facing the next generation of green free trade, where we have a duty to tear down trade barriers in terms of climate-friendly goods and services. As far as peace and freedom are concerned, the market economy and free trade are a strong putt that brings together the free world. Free trade enables meetings between individuals and across national borders. This reduces wars and conflicts. Together, we build a world of shared prosperity by exchanging goods and services. Free trade, as we know every day, lifts hundreds of millions of people out of poverty on different continents. At the same time, we are saddened to see that Europe, Europe's own free trade project, is raising trade barriers against poorer countries. It is not only economic error but also immoral because it hinders economic development in the poorest countries of the earth. To eradicate poverty in the world, more free trade is needed, not less. Mr President, I would like to The government has long been characterised by a mercantilist perspective, where exports are constantly being valued to the detriment of welfare-creating imports. Just talking about an export strategy leads the wrong way. Developing a trade strategy would have been more relevant and urgent. I think it's good that the Minister for Enterprise is here today. Hopefully, the Minister for Economic Affairs can develop the actual implementation and follow-up of the export strategy so that there will be no further non-transparent efforts by the same old actors. With those words, I would like to endorse Amendments Nos 1, 3 and 5.
i-UXihptE9eMUJQwWfEmgtkT	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the Alliance's reservations 1 and 3 and for the Christian Democrats' reservation 9. We are debating the new export strategy with 22 priority areas and five identified challenges for Swedish exports. Reaching the emerging markets to a greater extent and getting more small and medium-sized enterprises to dare and want to export our Swedish goods and services must, of course, be higher up the so-called value-added chain. Sweden must also increase its attractiveness by, among other things, attracting international events and maintaining global trade. We Christian Democrats share the government's view of these challenges and believe that most of the proposals and measures to meet them are necessary. But we also dare to put forward other proposals in some parts. For example, the government's desire to create a better transition from aid to trade through increased exchanges with international organisations can be a good way forward to create opportunities for people to support themselves. However, it is important that the EU and other trading partners live up to their commitments within the so-called Aid for Trade, which is an initiative aimed at taking a holistic approach to trade-related assistance. The Government proposes regional export centres where information about, among other things, export opportunities and financing opportunities should be available. We Christian Democrats believe that regional centres already exist. We have IUC, an industrial development centre, which collaborates with other business advisory organisations, incubators and more. A mission to also work with export issues can very well be put there. I know that the IUC has also been asked to work more with, for example, the new industrialisation strategy. The fact that when Business Sweden receives increased funding from the government to concentrate on the biggest business becomes contradictory when the export strategy is aimed primarily at small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, we believe that business Sweden should cooperate with the IUC to achieve such a double effect and reach both, so that small companies can find more larger players to collaborate with. We also believe in increased attention for the Export Credit Board, which has the government's mission to promote Swedish exports and the internationalisation of Swedish companies. This is done by insuring export companies and banks against the risk of not getting paid in export transactions, so that they can carry out more. If companies are better informed about the possibility of applying for guarantees there, it can help more people to export. I believe that the Swedish National Audit Office was in on the same thing a few years ago when we debated this in this House, namely that more knowledge was needed for companies about their ability to secure capital. Mr President, I would like to I believe, like the collegors who spoke from the speaker's seat earlier, that migration is important for increased exports. Transparency and solidarity have helped Sweden to build relationships with many countries around the world. And the question is, of course, how Sweden can take advantage of the people who come here. This is an important issue not only for the individual but also for Sweden's development. I believe that we must find opportunities to use those who have knowledge of different business cultures, great language skills and have been entrepreneurs, businessmen and women, in their home countries, to contribute to increased exports. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to go into the tourism industry, which, for my part, always has two parts: firstly, tourism and secondly, the meeting industry. If it is something that has become more important over the years, it is precisely that you can ensure that there is good quality in what you visit. We become as travelers more and more aware. When you travel at work, not least as we MPs do, you get a certain habit and start to expect things, and you also start making certain demands yourself. You do not accept anything but want a certain level of accommodation or travel. This is not unique to people who travel in the job, but the whole hospitality industry has met with people who travel, no matter what the purpose of their trip is. There is an increased awareness of quality, not least through the fast media available today, where you announce your experience of the hotel or the destination. Just like the Alliance, I believe in Swedish Welcome. In the past, I have also had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs on this subject, on which a great deal of money has been spent since before. It is very bad spent money if we do not continue to use the certification to contribute to a sustainable society and to emphasise that Sweden is a forerunner when we use quality criteria and certification. We are about to have a debate on sustainable business. In particular, I would like to promote the tourism industry as an industry in need of greater quality awareness in order to attract travellers and meeting visitors in the international context. Then we come to this with that Sweden should be able to attract more visitors to international meetings and events. Soon we'll have Eurovision in Globen. It's an event that attracts a lot of people and a lot of interest. We have many other events, and for those who are interested in statistics, I can mention that Sweden is in 14th place on the list of countries that receive the most international congresses. We can compare with the country before on the list, which is Australia. Australia is considerably larger than Sweden, we can see. The country after is Portugal. What is it that Sweden does that is so good? There are quite a few countries in the world, and there are many congress facilities and conference facilities to choose from. But what is it that makes you as a meeting buyer choose Sweden? I would say that it is about us being a country where you have good environmental thinking, where you can still – 90% – walk safely in streets and squares, where you have interesting and well-managed places of interest and where there is also good language knowledge among those who work there. What does this generate? Sweden is also in 14th place when it comes to the number of supposed participants at the international meetings. It is estimated that in 2014 we had over 104 00 0 visitors to the 238 congresses with international participants. On that list, South Korea is on the scene before and Austria on the site behind. It should be pointed out that Austria has a very successful convention bureau in Vienna, which works internationally on many fronts and has quite a lot more funds to move with than we here in Sweden have through, for example, Visit Sweden or the network that exists for CBs, i.e. conventio n bureaus. We're in good shape. We must not stop and say that we are so good, but we must be able to market Sweden in the future. Mr President, I would like to I will conclude by emphasising the importance of accessibility to Sweden. If we do not have airports, it is very difficult to attract people to meetings, congresses and events throughout the country. I think it is a bit unfortunate for the government to just point out Swedavia and the state airports. We want the whole of Sweden to live and be able to benefit from the export strategy. Then we must also include regional airports. Take account of the development potential there, and also take into account the need for support in a different way than they have received over the past year. After all, there has been a problem first with the EU and then with the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency. All authorities involved in infrastructure have also had an opinion on this with regional airports. I think we need to go further in the discussion than simply referring to the forthcoming aviation strategy. It's more urgent than that. If we are to succeed in contributing something to the whole country through the export strategy, we need to work more in this area.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-196	Mr President, I would like to It is very gratifying to be here with a report that focuses on exports, on which Sweden and the Swedish companies are so dependent. Before I went up in the speaker's chair, I was on the Gothenburg-Post's website and could read that exports from the Gothenburg region are going brilliantly and have increased threefold in comparison with developments in the rest of Sweden. The car industry in particular accounts for a large part of this increase. The number of jobs has increased by 47 per cent since last year. Sweden is thus doing well, and it will be even better when we have decided on the export strategy that lies on the table of Parliament. It is also fun that we have Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg in the Chamber. He will debate the export strategy in greater detail, but I would nevertheless like to say a few words in connection with the report t. The Government's export strategy contains some seventy measures to meet the challenges facing Swedish foreign trade. Swedish exports must reach the emerging markets to a greater extent. More SMEs must dare and want to export. Swedish goods, services and systems must reach even higher up the processing chain. Sweden's attractiveness for investment, skills and tourism must increase. Global trade must be kept open. This is important for Sweden. In addition to the export strategy contributing to the government's overall goal of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020, the government's stated goal is to increase exports, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of GDP. We need to increase Sweden's attractiveness for investment, skills and tourism, increase the proportion of exporting companies and increase the participation of Swedish companies in the global economy. Mr President, I would like to Many of the opposition's reservations in the report are, albeit not identical to the policies that permeate the report. But there are also some differences. Let me give you a few examples. A reservation from the Alliance advocates a declaration that the export strategy should also include imports and thus be part of the trade strategy. The committee shares the view that Sweden's exports are largely dependent on imports. One of the challenges addressed by the government through the actions of the strategy is precisely the global trading system. It is clear that the government is aware that the competitiveness of individual companies depends on how well they manage to form part of the global value chains. The Government argues that it is of great importance that it should be easy for companies to both export and import goods and services and to invest both in Sweden and abroad. Another reservation from the Alliance stresses that the export strategy should take account of Swedish competitive conditions with a particular focus on SMEs. The committee has no other opinion here. The competitive environment of companies is of great importance for their ability to achieve international success. This applies not least to small and medium-sized enterprises. I note, on the other hand, that, unfortunately, of the very great ambitions of the previous government to increase exports, it was only a tummethott. I am therefore pleased that this report focuses on export policy and takes it very seriously. Mr President, I would like to However, the alliance's ambitions contrast with their cutbacks. In the 2016 Moderates budget, there are minus 45 million in this area compared to the government, and the Centers, Liberals and Christian Democrats are decreasing by as much as 130 million in 2016. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-210	Mr President, I would like to People have always engaged in dealing with one another, both with their neighbors and with more distant contacts. Trade has always been of great importance, for better or for worse. It has led to increased prosperity, to the exchange of ideas and knowledge and to peaceful relations with different cultures. The idea that countries bound together by trade are less likely to end up in armed conflict remains topical. It was a basic idea of the Coal and Steel Union, which was formed after the Second World War and then developed into today's European Union. But throughout history, there are also too many examples of trade that have had devastating consequences. The trade in slaves, where people were abducted from Africa to be sold to North and South America, certainly created economic growth and made some rich. But the vast majority paid a terrible price, and the wounds are not yet healed. This deeply inhumane trade has rightly been thrown into the dump of history. However, we must not forget how important it is for both states and companies to assume their responsibilities for trade and exports to be conducted on the basis of values based on respect for human rights, the environment and democracy. This is well expressed in the agreement that S and MP made when we formed a government: are the world's countries increasingly economically dependent on each other and share responsibility for the environment on our planet. The benefits of globalisation will be shared by all. It requires people to be put ahead of the market. Democracy needs to be globalised and globalisation democratised. Greater efforts must be made to increase the number of democratic states in the world. ..................................................... We also have the Swedish policy for global development, PGU. It means that all policy decisions and policies should take into account human rights, democratic participation of people, the fight against poverty and environmental sustainability. It was decided by a unanimous parliament in 2003. The government takes it very seriously as well as the new development goals adopted by the UN, Agenda 2030, where trade forms an important part of sustainable development. There is much to be said about the export strategy and about the action plan on sustainable entrepreneurship, which we are also going to debate in this House today. There are many steps in the right direction towards good trade and exports. I can't talk about everything. I'll just have to dwell on a few things. Companies, large and small in different industries, act as never before across borders. However, the market does not consist solely of private producers and consumers. States have always played an important role in trade, often as an independent player, but also by creating rules on how trade should be conducted and on what terms and conditions. That is, of course, still the case today. The state can and should support the export of goods and services that help solve the major global societal challenges. There are many wise measures in the Government's export strategy that can help to seize the enormous potential of Swedish companies in helping to solve, for example, environmental challenges. Coordination and support for companies so that several companies can join forces and take on major projects such as renewable energy, waste management and community planning is important and good. It can provide real win-win solutions. The regional export centres, which have already begun to open, are very important to harness the knowledge and localities that exist throughout the country. We must not forget the municipal companies. They have a lot to contribute, not least in the field of the environment and in the area of urban planning. There are, moreover, further obstacles to be removed. Although there is very good in this strategy, there are more things to do. In fact, municipal companies are limited by outdated legislation which needs to be modernised so that they can compete and export on an equal footing with other companies. The world can't afford not to take advantage of all the good powers. Another good thing in the export strategy is that we will establish more consulates and honorary consulates in the world. As has been mentioned, there are many Swedes with backgrounds in other countries. They have unique opportunities to make great efforts to benefit both Sweden and Swedish export companies as well as their former home countries. I spoke some time ago with representatives of the Erbil Chamber of Commerce in Iraqi Kurdistan. It calls for cooperation with Sweden in order to move forward on renewable energy and to break oil dependence, develop organic farming and help young people and citizens in general to create businesses, make a living at home and avoid leaving abroad. It is an example of the need for Swedish representation in more parts of the world. The tourism industry has been mentioned, and I would like to take this opportunity to underline the importance of this growing industry. Helena Lindahl gave us figures on how many jobs and how much money it generates. Then it is important that we take good care of the unique natural and cultural environments that tourists from near and far want to come here and experience. In all complex contexts, conflicts between different interests arise. Then it is important to keep your head cool and remember that, when it comes to the exploitation of natural resources, minerals and so on, it can often be more economically profitable – not just ecologically – to leave the old forest here and where and to leave minerals lying sometimes, both for society as well as for companies and jobs in the long term. There has been much talk about flights here, but how nice would it be with night trains from the continent – what holidays could it not be? Mr President, I would like to After all, increased trade is not automatically beneficial at all times. I want to raise my eyes a little bit to get perspective. It depends on what is sold and on what conditions. For example, the world hardly needs more arms trade. On the other hand, the need for solar cells, malaria medicine and the like is enormous. It is important to keep in mind what the great environmental economist Herman Daly pointed out, namely that it is more sensible to change recipes than to send cookies between countries. The latter generates unnecessary transport which creates unnecessary environmental burdens, and the economic growth that arises is therefore, in Dalys's words, uneconomically overall. Responsible exports and trade require a regulatory framework that protects people and the environment and does not unilaterally favour large voiced transnational companies at the expense of other interests. In many trade agreements there are so-called investor state defence settlements, mechanisms that give companies the right to sue states if they believe that states have restricted their ability to make profits or their investments. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight something that may not be mentioned as often, namely that people affected by business activities must also be able to assert their rights and receive compensation and redress. Although the intentions are the best, human rights can sometimes go wrong and human rights can be violated or the environment destroyed. Nature and future generations must also have a voice, and there must be a sort of equality before the law for people and the environment as well as for businesses. There are several possible ways that I would like to develop in my next speech, if I have time. But let me briefly mention here that there is, among other things, a proposal for international legislation on ecocid, that is, serious destruction of nature and habitat. This is one thing that Sweden could well do in the UN. Indeed, it is a major step forward that the Government in the Sustainable Business Action Plan wants to support and encourage companies to do right and respect human rights through voluntary initiatives, regulations and guidelines, in order to protect human rights and the environment. However, I think that in a next step we need to consider whether to move forward and work towards binding rules for large transnational companies. It is a work that was carried out in the UN but which was closed down in the 1990s. Now it has been mentioned again in a working group, and I think that Sweden could do a great deal of good. Having said all that, I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-235	Mr President, I would like to It was a lot of pleasure that trade can contribute to. Trains, nature, good environment and conditions must be met. Trade can obviously, according to the Green Party, be an important part of developing the world. Annika Lillemet mentioned that there are problems here, namely companies that can sue states. We have had this discussion before, and we will have it many times. A concrete question: Does the Green Party think that Swedish companies that establish themselves in other countries should not be able to invoke their rights if nations change the conditions or conditions for their activities in those countries? That is a concrete question. Mr President, I would like to I have noted that the Environmental Party, here through Annika Lillemet, speaks well of the possibility of exporting knowledge about the environment, housing construction and more. We have Swedish culture that can be exported. Sweden is very good at education. There is a great deal of expertise in education where Sweden can sell services. I've had an investigation done. As I mentioned earlier, we have a trade minister who unfortunately only operates in third time. But the Prime Minister has said that the whole government is trade ministers. I have looked at the trips abroad that Mehmet Kaplan, Åsa Romson, Gustav Fridolin, Alice Bah Kuhnke and Isabella Lövin have made and who has been promoting trade. From the Government Office, I have received the answer that no travel has been indicated as a commercial promotion. Why have the ministers of the Green Party not proved themselves to be trade ministers through active action?
i-F8i8HV5QwyfLFFXYpp421q	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the important questions, Mr Rothenberg. How to define trade promotion? That's a good question. If we take Minister for Development Isabella Lövin, there is one important thing. With regard to the countries with which we have had development cooperation and aid before, which have now come up a bit, become a little richer and do better ourselves, we have a great task to help them to move forward and transform our cooperation and relationship with them not to build on aid but rather on trade relations. I find it hard to tell the difference, to be honest. Is this not indirectly trade-promoting? I do not know how trade promotion is defined by Mr Rothenberg. I definitely see it as trade-promoting to stick to the contacts and see how they can be further developed. Of course, I do not know in detail what our ministers have done on their foreign journeys, because I have not followed them along, but in some sense everything is trade-promoting. To only expose Swedish culture, talk about what exists and so on promote trade in the long term. You can't do it as narrowly as Hans Rothenberg wants. If there are legal systems that work in countries, there is absolutely nothing to prevent Swedish companies from suing states if they do something illegal to companies. That's reasonable. As I said, there must be equality before the law. I do not think this is a problem in most cases.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-245	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It goes without saying that aid policy is there to prepare for a trade transition. This is how most trade and aid ministers have acted in recent decades. It's obvious. I assume that Isabella Lövin will also consider this issue when she is travelling abroad. My point is that there are additional ministers with an environmental party mark on the jacket team who have not made use of their opportunities to also act as a commercial promoter on trips abroad. I do not mean that, when you are travelling abroad, you should mention in passing that it would be good if we could exchange some trade between countries. Here it is about whether all ministers in the government are also trade ministers that the housing minister should be able to have an idea of what efforts should be made when travelling in order to be able to contribute to selling Swedish construction contractors' services and products abroad. In the environmental field, I wonder what the Minister for the Environment has done to sell Swedish cleantech abroad. And what has the Minister of Culture done to sell Swedish culture abroad? When you ask a question and want to know what they have done on these trips, it is quite easy to answer. But I haven't got any answers. Therefore, it is a great responsibility of the government ministers of the Green Party to show that they are also trade ministers. It was good to hear Annika Lillemet say that Swedish companies should of course be able to sue states if they end up in distress. Yes, that is exactly what the ISDS dispute settlement mechanism is all about. It is the one to be cared for, and it is the one that all countries benefit from mutually. Swedish companies benefit greatly when they are out and establish themselves around the world. I think the Green Party should take more care of that.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-251	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that dispute resolution mechanisms are needed. In all human activities, conflicts of interest arise. However, they must not be designed to take precedence over democratic decisions and decisions aimed at protecting human rights, the environment and health, animal welfare and other social interests. I think we all agree on that, I really hope. However, there is a legitimate concern about how they are designed in various trade agreements. Of course, there is a need for some kind of dispute settlement mechanism, which does not violate these absolutely important social interests and democracy. I don't think there's any problem with that. If we have a functioning rule of law, we also often have it in place. One can always complain about the government and say that more should be done. But I myself am proud of what the whole government stands for in terms of sustainable business and export promotion. That's a lot of stuff. They want to make use of the regional centres of export. It's a big power collection, so I think Hans Rothenberg – forgive the outtryc ket – is a bit whiny. I think so. I think that there is great potential and that much is already being done. But how to label it is another thing.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-254	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that in the Green Party, which has several representatives in the Committee on Economic Affairs who deal with different issues – as opposed to a certain other party, which is allowed to take all the questions – there is sometimes a bit of contradiction in opinions about different things. Sometimes it also gets a little hard to understand, which means that I need to ask Annika Lillemet a question. When a debate on export strategy uses the expression that there are those affected by entrepreneurship, I wonder a little what the Lillemet mean. Is it the case that people who express a desire to run a business are being adversely affected? Then perhaps we should not take part in the debate at all, because it is a question of exporting companies and that we need to have a strategy for that work. So to the next question. I think we agree – Annika Lillemet, me and everyone else – that arms trade in itself may not be a good thing that we think should be promoted unnecessarily, so to speak. However, if it is also mentioned that it is only good with the trade, development and export of malaria medicine and solar cells, as Annika Lillemet mentions, then I must ask whether there are really no other things that one might consider exporting or importing and thus contributing to international trade. The third question I'm going to speed up with. It is the question of how the Environmental Party and Annika Lillemet see the possibility for foreign companies to establish themselves in Sweden if they cannot use the aircraft.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-258	Mr President, I would like to That was a lot of important questions. I'll see how many people I can answer. If this expression is affected by entrepreneurship, it is unfortunately happening. We can take Arla in Saudi Arabia, where the factory took migrant workers' passports so that they could not travel from the country. We can take another subcontractor in this case State Vattenfall, who bought coal from a company in Colombia, where union leaders were murdered. We can take the textile industry, where there are major problems and where people have had to work in inhumane conditions, where they have violated the core ILO rules and there have been more or less slaves to pasture. We also have terrible accidents where workers have been locked up and then burned inside. You can go on forever. I'm afraid sometimes things go wrong. Such things can happen. I don't think anyone who's doing business wants that to happen. But with cost-hunting and perhaps when it is difficult to keep track of subcontractors, things can go wrong, even if you have the best intentions. Then those affected must have a real opportunity to obtain redress, compensation and improvement of their conditions where possible. That protection must be strengthened. We will get back to this when we debate sustainable entrepreneurship. It is very good that many companies are working on this. Much has been done, but there are still things to do. There I see a need to go further and look at binding rules to strengthen the protection of people. Then there are the examples of what makes sense to export and import. That was just an example, Penilla Gunther. Of course, there is much more than solar cells and malaria medicine. There is so much that can be good to export and import. That was just an example.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-264	Mr President, I would like to I can, of course, agree with Annika Lillemet on the examples she mentions about terrible working conditions for people. We should not contribute to such things. We should not have Swedish companies that embarrass themselves in the rest of the world one by contributing to neither environmental damage nor destruction of humans, animals or nature – absolutely not. As I said, we come back to that in the next debate on the criteria for sustainable entrepreneurship. One can almost say that these are bad companies where I believe neither the Swedish Government nor any of us want to promote the export of their goods or services, because they do not actually relate properly to the international conventions that exist about running companies and not least labour law rules. But that's kind of a different thing. It is not a question of being affected by entrepreneurship, but of being affected by poor relationships, to which bad companies contribute in other countries. There's something else. I think we should be careful with the words. SMEs are sensitive in these cases. It is very much about having good conditions for them to be able to grow and develop and be able to distribute their products in a good way with the help of, for example, the Export Credit Board. This strategy will contribute to this. I am still asking for some more examples from the Green Party, where you can actually say: This is Sweden good at, this we could have more exports of. Then there is the last question, not to forget: the issue of aviation.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-270	Mr President, I would like to It sounds like we basically agree that we should promote good entrepreneurship and not bad entrepreneurship. But as I said, even with the best intentions, things can sometimes go wrong, and that is why we need strong institutions and control and follow-up mechanisms for everyone's sake. We can talk about that for a long time. As far as aviation is concerned, who has said that we should stop all flights? I didn't do it. On the other hand, we are not going to expand it all the way. It is not climate-friendly. The transport that can go with more climate-friendly modes of transport, such as trains and shipping, is what we should be investing in in the first place. Then there will always be flights. But we should not expand it unnecessarily, but always choose the most resource-efficient and reduce the need for transport, which I tried to highlight, and have a transport-efficient and smart society. I mentioned some examples of what we are good at and can export from Sweden. This concerns environmental technology, biogas, community planning and waste management. Another big thing is music and culture, which is a huge export product, which is also both pleasant and environmentally friendly. It doesn't work on the environment at all. I would like to thank the municipal music school. So there is much that we are good at and that we can support, disseminate and cooperate with others on. We can have mutual learning, not least in terms of social planning.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-274	Mr President, I would like to Annika Lillemet talks about environmental and climate issues as always. You should have a credit for that, Annika Lillemet. You said in your line, among other things, that you don't want to expand your flight unnecessarily. In the Government's export strategy there is a piece at the back called More direct flights to and from Sweden. It states, among other things, that Swedish airports have too few direct routes to important cities in emerging countries. I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Green Party has agreed to this. Should we interpret it as important for Annika Lillemet that there is a route between Linköping and Riyadh? Why does the Green Party want us to fly more?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-277	Mr President, I would like to Now the M iljö party does not have its own majority either in the government or in parliament. Maybe that'll explain a few things. And Riyadh was also an example. What the government also does and which is good is to invest in upgrading the Swedish railway to get more goods on trains and also to get more goods on ships at sea. It is important to remember, and it is, of course, something that I, as an environmental party, am pleased that the government is doing.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-279	Mr President, I would like to I thank Annika Lillemet for her reply. I think we are basically quite close. However, I am a little surprised that the Green Party agrees to such a paragraph as is contained in the export strategy 4.22, where it is so clearly stated that it wants more routes to and from Sweden directly to other countries. I think it would be better if, together, we pushed for more investment in the railways to our international airports, so that the flights going from there directly to the emerging countries, whether it be Riyadh in Saudi Arabia or Germany, are packed and so that we do not destroy the environment any more than we need. Unfortunately, we have seen for a long time that it is no longer a political opinion that is sacred to the Green Party or that is not negotiable.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-282	Mr President, I would like to As I said, all the good forces are needed to change society in a climate-friendly direction, and Håkan Svenneling said a lot of important things. The government's betting. Rail maintenance and development are very underdeveloped. It is only full speed that applies here, and I hope for the support of as many people as possible. I take the opportunity to reiterate that we also have a policy for a smarter economy and a circular economy, which reduces the use of resources. We also want to work in different ways to make Sweden one of the first fossil-free welfare countries. So a lot is happening in this area, although there are some things that I certainly would not have advocated if I and my party had been left to decide entirely for themselves. But all in all, we are still moving in the right direction. We work seriously to reduce Sweden's climate impact. And there we need, as I said, all the good forces that can help with that – Håkan Svenneling and everyone else.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-286	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start this debate by actually thanking the government for the praise it has received from many parties for developing this export strategy. I am somewhat biased, but I have to say that this issue is among the most important issues for us to discuss in this House because the Swedish economy is extremely dependent on our exports and on our international trade relations. And this debate testifies to that. I would like to start by mentioning that today's Industry on 29 February says: Swedish exports are gaining ground. Many in the Committee on Economic Affairs of course read Dagens Industri at the time. But it is the first time in 20 years that Swedish exports gain market share in international markets. This is a very gratifying development because a background to this export strategy is, of course, the importance of exports for our Swedish economy. But there is also a historical perspective, that we now have a number of years behind us where Swedish exports have lost ground. If you look at some of our competitor countries, such as Germany and the Netherlands, their exports have developed almost twice as well as Swedish exports over a number of years. This, of course, is not sustainable in the long term. Very much of the Swedish economy is based on exports and trade with other countries and contributes a lot to our bnp but of course also to the financing of our welfare. I think that the example of Västra Götaland and the lifting that is now taking place in exports there demonstrate the enormous importance that exports have for employment in our country. When exports are involved in drawing our economy as it is now, we also see positive developments in the Swedish labour market – more new jobs but also falling unemployment. This therefore means a great deal to the Swedish economy. It is clear that all of us who are taking part in this debate today share the understanding of the importance of exports and trade for Sweden. However, I would like to mention just one figure to bring this to light. At the end of last year, the National Board of Trade presented a report showing that the direct export industry currently employs 678 000 people. However, if we include those companies that are directly dependent on exports for their activities and support the export sector, 1.3 million people go to work every day thanks to Swedish exports. This is therefore incredibly important for the Swedish economy. In principle, every third person who goes to work does so thanks to Swedish exports. This is part of the background to the government's choice – it was almost the first thing we did in government – to prioritise the work on exports, develop this export strategy and also change up export support work rather dramatically in budgetary terms. When we look at the problem pictures that still exist of Swedish exports, we are most dependent on exports to our close neighbours. It's no wonder. About 70 per cent of Swedish exports go to Europe. However, as we look forward, we see that around 80% of the expected growth in the world economy will take place outside Europe. Therefore, we need to work to reach more growth markets around the world so that Sweden does not miss out on the export development that we have the opportunity to take advantage of for the Swedish economy. Another thing that I think is very important and that is behind this strategy is that only 10% of Swedish companies export. There is a huge potential to get more SMEs to dare and want to take the step into the export market. We know that it is very important for the Swedish economy, but it is also very important for employment in our country. It is through small and medium-sized enterprises, which are taking the step into the export market and need to expand and make new jobs, that we can have a major employment effect. The strategy actually identifies a number of challenges. More small and medium-sized enterprises must dare and want to export, as I have just mentioned. Swedish goods, services and systems must reach higher up the processing chain. Sweden's attractiveness for investment, skills and tourism must increase. And global trade must be kept open. This is the basis of the government's export strategy. In the export strategy, there are 22 concrete actions identified that we are now working on to make it a reality. One can say that there is a focus not only on getting small and medium-sized enterprises to take the step but also, which is important, on not forgetting our large export companies in Sweden and their opportunities to win not least the big business in a global arena. This means a great deal to the Swedish economy and long-term to our prosperity. The development of the strategy has taken place in very close dialogue with the business community. Both individual companies and trade unions as well as trade unions have contributed to the work of thinking about what needs to be done further in order to improve our export promotion. I would like to thank you for that dialogue. The reception received by the export strategy, not least by industry, shows that it believes that we have followed up the talks well and identified important areas that they have pointed out and that we are now working on. This applies both to large companies and to small and medium-sized enterprises. Work is now under way to implement and implement the 22 initiatives. I would like to give some examples to Parliament to show how the work is going on and what is happening in the strategy. The first is that we are working very hard to make government export promotion more effective. It was ironized a little bit about the concept of Team Sweden and the attempt to get the Swedish actors together and cooperate a lot. I will say that in the dialogues we had it was an issue that involved business more than anyone else. They said: There are too many actors, it is hard to know who does what. Can you not coordinate efforts to make it easier for companies to find the right support that still exists and develop the support available for SMEs to go on export? That is why we are creating an organisation here at home to try to create better and clearer entrances for companies around Sweden, through the regional export centres we have now decided on – the first six – to ensure that companies get a door in but also help within 24 hours. It is also a coordination of our efforts in important international markets. The fact that all our players can be helped and pulled in the same direction means a lot for us to succeed not least in more difficult markets around the world. We have decided to strengthen our presence in important markets. We have reopened the Consulate General in New York, and we are opening new embassies in Tunisia, the Philippines and Peru. Business Sweden has opened foreign offices in Singapore and intends to open soon in Tehran. We have decided on the regional export centres, as I mentioned, to coordinate the state actors and involve the regional actors and other actors that exist to promote entrepreneurship regionally around Sweden. There should therefore be no delimitation, but rather an invitation to cooperate even more regionally in Sweden. Statskontoret has just come up with its review of the national promotion, and I think they used the words This shows the need to pool efforts at regional level in order to make it easier for businesses to find the right place. After the summer we will start the digital export information, a single window we are collecting on the website verkat.se, to show the state support available to get advice, marketing, financing etc. in a single place. Business Sweden is now also in the starting pits to launch an information campaign aimed at SMEs to inform about the importance of exports and what support and help you can get to internationalise your business. The strategic work to win more of the largest global business has begun, and Business Sweden, together with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, has already identified a number of pilot projects to see how to work strategically to win the major international business. Several efforts have been undertaken to strengthen Sweden's image. Recently, for example, a digital display window for cultural and creative industries was launched. It was launched in Austin, USA, and we make special efforts with the Swedish image in India, for example. We are also making special efforts to increase tourism promotion in both India and China; in the spring ten new visa offices will be opened in China to facilitate, for example, tourism flows to Sweden. The UN strategy for winning major international procurements has also moved on. We have made a resource enhancement of our presence in New York to be able to work strategically in order for Sweden to have the opportunity to take home some of the major business that exists in the UN system. We also work to strengthen Swedish talent through, for example, the Swedish Institute. We notice that we are on the move with efforts. In many of these 22 areas, work is progressing. I wanted to take some time to show that there is now a full focus on implementation. There is also a great deal of transparency – we notice that something is not working properly we are doing if and doing the right thing, because the ambition is to increase our success in international markets. Then we shall also learn from what we do in the meantime. As some of you have highlighted in the debate, I would also like to emphasise the importance of implementing the export strategy in line with the National Action Plan on Business and Human Rights. This is the first time a government has linked these two issues together and is working strategically on it. This is all the more important because a number of the priority markets we point out in the export strategy are difficult markets where there is widespread corruption or a lack of human rights. Therefore, it is even more important to work with sustainable entrepreneurship together with the issue of export strategy, and we think that is very important. We see that the export strategy will contribute to the government's overall goal of combating unemployment and achieving the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. We are in the process of implementation, and I would like to conclude by saying that this involves a great deal of change, but hopefully also a long-term commitment on the part of Sweden to take export and trade issues more seriously. I also hope that in the future we can achieve greater political agreement on the importance of these issues. The debate that has so far been has reflected a great deal of agreement on the importance, but it is also important that we reach agreement not least on the future financial effort to do so. I therefore hope that we will see more positive headlines on Swedish exports in the coming years. At least that's what we're working on, and hopefully the export strategy will lead to that.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-309	Mr President and Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg! The export strategy mentions challenges in getting SMEs to start exporting. If I start from my own area, which is an entrepreneurial region called the Gnosjö region in southern Jönköping County, there are quite clear reasons why companies do not want to or can not export or grow. The reasons probably apply to the whole of Sweden. If these four problems are solved, growth and exports will increase. How does the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Government view this?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-311	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I think this is one of the keys. There has previously been a picture in Sweden that small and medium-sized enterprises do not export much because we have large companies and the small companies are subcontractors to them. In some way, then, they carry out exports in any case. I think that logic is limping. If you are a small company in Sweden and can actually deliver to multinational companies in Sweden, there is nothing to prevent you from delivering to other multinational companies around the world. I believe that this is a cultural issue and a matter of knowledge. I believe that small and medium-sized enterprises will find it very difficult to cope with competition in five and ten years' time if they do not grow in the market, do not exist in international markets and do not have contact with more customers than perhaps just one big one. I therefore believe that the question raised by the Swedish Democrats is important. We are looking at what is actually hindering small and medium-sized enterprises today, and the time aspect is, of course, one of the things that often hinders them. There are specific programmes where you can work with SMEs over a long period of time to help them understand what they need to be able and do to reach international markets. This is an initiative we have. Another is to look at the issue of skills, where the government is making great efforts in general to increase the ability to recruit the necessary skills. One aspect that was not addressed was the issue of financing, which is also an obstacle to small and medium-sized enterprises. We have given new assignments to EKN in particular to work more towards small and medium-sized companies to enable expansion. The whole purpose of this is to make clear what help there is to get and to address directly to companies and to say: export is important, and it is in fact an issue that we take seriously from the state.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-315	Mr President, I would like to It still feels like the Minister for Economic Affairs shares our view that it is very important and that you need to make an attitude change. Looking at the proposals, it seems that the government has taken this seriously. I hope that this will happen once it goes through. I'll settle for this.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-316	Mr President, I would like to Hans Rothenberg is not the only one who has looked into this with travel. I have checked that Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg has enjoyed travelling since he entered the government. During his time as Minister, he has visited 18 countries. Four of these countries have been fossil-driven economies that have also had authoritarian dictatorial rule. The people I am thinking of today are the United Arab Emirates, Iran, Saudi Arabia and China. Mikael Damberg's Secretary of State, Oscar Stenström, has also travelled around the world. He has visited 17 countries. In addition to some of the countries visited by the Minister for Economic Affairs, he has also visited the oil-driven regimes in Angola, Indonesia, Malaysia and Russia. Of the 26 countries identified in the export strategy, only 9 are counted as democracies according to the Institute Freedom House. The other 17 countries are classified either as partially free or as dictatorships. Of the 17 countries, 15 are oil-dependent or have other fossil-dependent economies. At the same time, there is a lack of a number of democratic countries that are expected to have high growth in the coming years. In two respects, I think it is problematic to point out oily dictatorships. The first aspect is that their economies are not sustainable because oil and fossil fuels are the fuels of the last century. They have a difficult way to go even now that the price of oil is low. They'll get it even tougher when the world changes and lives up to its climate ambitions. The second aspect is that Swedish trade strengthens dictatorial rule and ensures that the current order can continue. This means that Sweden's export strategy possibly means that Sweden will export products but hardly democratic ideas. The question is whether the government really is living up to its ambition of feminist foreign policy. Why, Minister Mikael Damberg, do you like oily dictatorships so much? How does trade with these countries help to strengthen Sweden's economy and democratic development in the world?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-322	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to clear up one thing about the priority list. It is clear that we have chosen a number of European countries that are very close to us. We work there in an internal market, and the need for help and support from the state to carry out business is not as great. One of the points with the priority list is to identify markets where it is more difficult for companies to navigate, more difficult to do right and more difficult to manage the sustainability risks raised by the Left Party in the debate. The very point of some of the priorities is to help companies in more difficult markets. That is where political support for trade promotion is becoming more and more important. Companies rarely need the help of a minister of industry in Germany or, for example, in an oily economy such as Norway. Of course we have different roles in different parts of the world. We have also selected the countries on the basis of: Which countries have come so far in their economic development that they are asking for some form of exchange with Swedish companies? The export strategy is about helping companies export. Then there must be some customer on the other side who is interested in buying or making investments that matter. That is why we also need to see how far the countries have come in their economic development when we look at the priorities we are going to make for our trade promotion. Otherwise, the strategy will not come to an end. There are a number of countries in the strategy that are dependent on raw materials. It could be oil like in Saudi Arabia, which is mentioned here. Brazil is very dependent on its mining industry and also its oil industry. There are now major problems in the commodity markets in the world, and this also affects the economic development of these countries. I'll put it in perspective. The countries listed by the Left Party with high growth rates are Ghana, Peru, Mo ç ambique, Tunisia, Chile and Zambia. Our trade with Saudi Arabia alone is today greater than trade with all these countries together.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-328	Mr President, I would like to Minister Damberg's export strategy could have been good. I am fundamentally in favour of developing such a strategy. Exports are really a basic bolt in Swedish welfare building. By investing in the export industry, we also strengthen Sweden's rural areas. It is often there that Sweden's export industry is located even if the head office is located in Stockholm or elsewhere. It seems to be fast cash in fossil economics that the Ministry of Industry is looking for. The emerging democracies where trade is needed to develop countries and their democracy have not been developed. In the export strategy several of Sweden's largest export countries are now prioritised. The minister's a little into why you do it. Although this is not where the expansion of the future will take place, it is there that border barriers are currently doing the greatest harm. If we were to remove border barriers to our largest export countries such as the Nordic neighbours, the specialisation in the Nordic countries could increase and industrial competence could be better exploited. I think the government has instead built new walls against our neighbours. I wonder what negative effects, for example, the border controls against Denmark have had on our exports. Some things have also happened in the world since the Minister for Economic Affairs presented his 26 priority countries. Saudi Arabia's economy has not exactly gone brilliantly since then. I wonder whether there will be a revision of the government's priority countries, whether it will include growing democracies and whether large export countries will be included.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-332	Mr President, I would like to We will continue to focus on the economies and countries where we see great opportunities for trade for Swedish companies. That is the starting point. But it is not just a short-term perspective where we look at which countries are large today. Let me take another example in the export strategy. This is about when Sweden has participated in aid for a long number of years in countries and invested big money to lift those countries economically and socially. We have not had a strategy historically for how to transform a relationship that is an aid relationship with countries into a more trade-based and normal relationship with countries on more equal terms. Now we point Bangladesh, Bolivia, Kenya, Tanzania and Zambia as five countries where we want to work pilot-wise. How do we work strategically in countries where we have a long tradition of development cooperation to switch to a trade relationship that can be beneficial to these countries? It is about combating poverty and that it should lead to economic development. In the long term, it will also create economic opportunities for Sweden to trade more with those countries. The issue of sustainable entrepreneurship is definitely an integral part of this. I do not share the Left Party's analysis that we should stop trading with countries that do not always share our views. I am absolutely sure that it is good for Cuba, which was discussed before, that the trade boycott is lifted and that there is more trade with Cuba. I am convinced that the pro-reform forces in Iran are screaming for more exchange with the outside world. Trade leads to more exchange but also creates the opportunity for diplomatic contacts where we can tell what we think and talk about what demands we make on regimes around the world to respect democracy, human rights and trade union rights.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-337	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your speech on the export strategy. First of all, I would like to point out that it is great to make this effort. It's incredibly important. Mikael Damberg said earlier that only 10 percent of Swedish companies export. If more people did, employment would increase and the Swedish economy would benefit from it. But good conditions must also be important at home. If Swedish companies are not competitive from the beginning, it will be very difficult when they are going to work and compete internationally. The government's export offensive amounts to approximately 225 million for 2015 and more than 300 million for the rest of the term of office per year. I have to get back into what's bothering me. You are announcing taxes for companies of 27 billion already this year. It is the biggest tax increase any government has made in the last 20 years. There are other things too. When you announce a mileage tax or talk about limiting welfare gains, all such domestic entrepreneurship and the conditions for it are affected. I hope and believe that Mikael Damberg takes it seriously. This is not positive for Swedish entrepreneurship. I would like to ask Mikael Damberg: in what way is it an offensive effort on exports and Swedish industry when, on the one hand, 300 million are invested in exports and, on the other hand, domestic companies are taxing 27 billion already this year?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-342	Mr President, I would like to Glad to hear that this export initiative, as the Center Party has now said, is incredibly important. These are rather different debates, but I will answer them anyway. It is clear that good conditions are important in Sweden, but the Center Party primarily defends the reduction in employers' contributions for young people. To be honest, the Center Party is quite lonely about that. All your bourgeois colleagues have left that position. Well, that depends on something. It cost a great deal and did not produce the effect that you had thought. The state must then consider how we use our tax money as effectively as possible to combat youth unemployment. Long-term unemployment among young people has in principle been halved during the period that we have abolished the reduction in employers' contributions that you pushed through and which cost a great deal of money. The Financial Times is currently pointing out the Swedish economy as perhaps the sixth fastest growing economy in the world with growth of 4 percent. We've created 80,000 more jobs since the election. Unemployment is falling on a broad front around Sweden. This is a very important feature of the Swedish economy. At this point, we want to make full use of the possibilities of exports, and that is what this debate is really about, so perhaps we can come back to that now. But I can't really get it together. How can I get praise from all the bourgeois parties for this export strategy, and so does the Center Party want to remove 130 million crowns? That is the whole package of measures. The 22 operations we point to in the export strategy cost SEK 130 million. I'd expect it to say somewhere in the reservations that you don't want this, because it's unnecessary. I expected you to say that you do not want the regional export offices, which we are now deciding on here. If you are going to do this, you have to close seven eight Business Sweden offices alongside it, in Sweden. There will be no information campaign for SMEs. It will be the result if you follow your budget bill.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-348	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Damberg! No, indeed, these are not at all different debates! They're connected. Does Mikael Damberg really think that exports can be seen as something isolated? After all, it is people who are behind these companies, and the people who run the companies also need good conditions. The fact that we in the Center Party would be alone in wanting to stick to reduced social security contributions is also not true. In fact, we have almost the entire business community behind us, and it is the business sector that the Center Party is fighting for. I am not standing in this House to impress Mikael Damberg or any other party, but we are driven by better conditions for entrepreneurs. Then it is also the case that nyssvensks come here. A lot of people need their first job, and so do our young people. Take such an industry as the tourism industry! It is very service-intensive, and that means that all the increased costs affect very much. I can hardly believe, then, that it is of no importance for employers' contributions for young people to be increased. I think you can ask anyone in the hospitality industry who runs a business, and you'll get the answer that the Center Party is doing the right thing that stands by this. Mikael Damberg tries to spread fog curtains and says that the Center Party wants to remove 130 million SEK in the budget. Hey! The Social Democrats and this government want to tax the Swedish business community with 27 000 million! You can't even compare that. These huge tax increases are criticised by industry. You'll get that criticism. The business community believes that what you are doing is pennies compared to these planned tax increases. You are now sending this to the companies. Doesn't the minister think it's embarrassing?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-353	Mr President, I would like to We would be happy to have a debate on the employers' contribution for young people. We did that in the election campaign, and we do that now. We point out that this was expensive and not effective and that it is better to target young people who lack jobs and find it difficult to find jobs, especially those who lack upper secondary education. This is the policy that we are changing and which now leads to long-term unemployment among young people in principle being halved, while at the same time phasing out a reduction in employers' contributions. The Center Party has something to explain. It is not only us and the reality that are showing this, but the bourgeois parties as a whole have also made that proposal. You're the only one. If we go back to the export strategy that we are discussing now, I must conclude that the Center Party does not want regional export offices, that it wants to close more Business Sweden offices around Sweden, that it should not have an information campaign for small and medium-sized enterprises and that we should have a weaker position in the emerging markets with less representation on the part of Sweden. I hope that the Center Party will reconsider in this part, because I think this is a very good long term, and it is received very positively by the business community. If there is so little money that the Center Party is arguing for, I hope you will find it in next year's budget!
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-358	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for presenting an export strategy! I think it should be a commercial strategy. We can split words; that is not what it is about. Swedish exports are doing well. Yeah, that's no wonder. We have had a very active Trade Minister for eight years who has built on the fact that exports are going up and down. It always does. This is due to exchange rates, oil prices, pulp prices and basic industry prices. However, we can note that the Institute of Economic Development is currently cooling down its forecast: weaker outcomes for world trade, global industrial production and the purchasing director's index are falling. This is the reality on which we stand. We will always see embassies and commercial offices opening and closing, regardless of which government it is. Nevertheless, I would like to get to grips with the discussion of local markets and remote markets. Germany and Norway are by far the largest markets. The Minister said earlier that this is not where Swedish companies need help. However, there are parts of Swedish exports that can develop more, and this applies above all to service exports. I come back to what we have discussed in the past, not least services exports in welfare services, where Germany has enormous potential in the gender equality that that country is undergoing now. There will be more women entering the labour market, and this is something that Swedish companies know. In Germany you need this help and this support. The most important thing that companies need is support from the public, but there are also opportunities for private export advice to contribute. I would like to ask the Minister: Is it possible for the government to endorse the procurement of export advisory services to complement Business Sweden's activities?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-364	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I think it is important to see that trade will develop over time. We will see how different industries are doing differently, and we will see different countries developing differently well because of commodity prices. That is why it is so important that Sweden has an offensive trade policy agenda that is all about world trade but also that we are able to work strategically and long-term in important growth markets. Nevertheless, I understand that we are fairly agreed that we need to strengthen our presence in emerging markets over time, although our local market continues to be the most important for the Swedish economy. We have to do two things at the same time, and we have asked Statskontoret to do an analysis of the trade barriers that exist. We have also looked at the Customs Agency working more with the type of trade barriers that exist in the local markets to ensure that we do not miss the opportunity to simplify trade. This is particularly true in European markets, where the European Commission is now working on the Single Market Strategy, but it is also about the Digital Single Market, which can mean a great deal to solve some of the barriers to trade that exist in our own home market. I therefore fully share the view that we should work with trade barriers at home and in the near environment. Service exports are also growing. It is the one who has gone relatively well in recent years. What is a little new in recent times is that goods exports from Sweden are also going quite well. Now both service exports and goods exports are pulling simultaneously, which creates a very good and positive development for Swedish exports as a whole. We have chosen an export strategy. There may be some misunderstanding, but we do not point out any industry in the export strategy apart from one, and that is the cultural and creative industries. We point them out, because they are a little newer and a little different and therefore need a special treatment. But we have chosen not to go into steel, mines, vehicles, life science or even service exports, because we want a broad trade and export strategy. When it comes to export advice, I will have to come back in the next line, because I have only eight seconds left.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-369	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Two plus two minutes is like a speck of dust in the universe. If creative and cultural industries are so important and the government has specified them in its export strategy, then I think the Minister should go back to Rosenbad and recommend his fellow Minister for Culture to make more active promotion trips around the world to help sell Swedish cultural and creative industries. It is precisely the laying on of hands that the government can and will do and which is so important. In previous shifts, we have been discussing precisely the important role of ministers as a trade promoter. I want to go back to this with who can be the best at helping companies out in the world. Germany, which is a fantastic trading country, not only with Sweden, has a ystem with trade chamber networks that have an important function. There are 80 local chambers of commerce and 130 bilateral chambers in 90 countries who are actively involved in helping. But in Sweden it gathers around Business Sweden and it gathers around public actors. I wonder whether the government is prepared to open up to a regular export advisory procurement where not only chambers of commerce but also smaller companies, locally located with experience of this, can make arm hooks with companies that feel confidence and want to use them. And a little curiosity question: Who do you call when you want to reach Team Sweden?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-374	Mr President, I would like to Business Sweden is not a government organisation. It is half owned by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. It's the construction itself. The state and the business community will work together on these issues. As late as 2012, the Riksdag decided that Business Sweden should be a central service agency for export and investment promotion measures. I don't know if the Moderates have changed foot and think it doesn't apply anymore. Then we should talk to the business community about finding a different form of this. I think it is important now to dare to make efforts with the business community for promotion. The Swedish Agency for Growth's internationalisation checks are something that is free for different companies. Companies can buy up what support and what help they want, and they do not need to go through Business Sweden. This type of service therefore exists today. When it comes to purchasing all of this, I want to make it clear that the volumes of this procurement are so small that the costs of the procurement would almost knock out the effort itself. That is why we choose to make this effort primarily through the existing networks but also to support, for example, Chambers of Commerce that exist in the world and cooperate very actively with them. To create even more regional mess on this issue I do not think is to recommend right now that Statskontoret has shown that this is one of the major problems. Finally, it was said that trade offices and embassies will be opened and closed by governments. The problem was that you closed, but now we open. And I think not least the business community would like some long-term news from the Moderates. What we are doing now in New York, what Business Sweden is doing in Singapore and in Tehran and what we are going to do now in the Philippines and Peru are long-term efforts that we can support. When I meet the business community, they say that long-term rules of the game and strengthened presence in the emerging markets are hugely important, so it is a contribution. The Moderates do not intervene as much in the export effort as the other bourgeois parties, and I welcome it. But I think you too can be a little clearer about the long-term rules of the emerging markets, because nobody else can do this unless the state is involved.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-382	Mr President, I would like to I just want to get a clearer picture of the six export centres that have been decided. As the Minister has heard me say earlier, and even today, I think that the EUC as an organisation could have been a good alternative to getting in touch with small industrial enterprises and also linking it more to the new industrialisation strategy so that all strategies and policies can be linked together. Working together with Business Sweden I see as self-evident and also working with Chambers of Commerce. I think that this should really be tightened up with the number of actors, as the Minister mentioned in relation to Statskontoret's review there. We have also spoken in the past about the innovation system, where many of these actors also have advice, research, business start-ups, but also business development in different ways. If we know that there are over 400 such operators in Sweden, they must be able to cluster together so that they are close to the six export centres. My question to the Minister is: how is coordination envisaged? Is there a place for the EUC and also an opportunity to involve operators in such a way that innovation and development for exports become a holistic approach to this? Surely that is what is meant by the creation of services and goods that can be attractive to people in other countries too.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-385	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I think it is incredibly important to get the regional picture clear. That is why we have chosen not to directly point out localities and organisations just from the state side. We have said that the Swedish Agency for Growth will lead the work in order to be able to work together regionally, not least with the regional development manager. Then you get the idea that exists regionally. It is known which actors are regional, and it makes them interact with Almi, Business Sweden, the Export Credit Board, Enterprice Europe Network and the Swedish Growth Agency so that the state and state organisations can play with the regional level and invite the regional actors who are important at the regional level. We will continue to have a situation where Almi is good at certain things, such as corporate finance, while EKN is good at guaranteeing export deals and Business Sweden is good at doing market research in new markets. We must make them interact, but also with regional actors. That's the point of this arrangement. Let's say the first six get lead. However, there is nothing to prevent other regions from cluttering in this way and showing that they meet the demands of the Swedish Agency for Growth at a regional export office and thus also being able to guarantee, for example, assistance within 24 hours for those entrepreneurs who turn to a regional export office. I think there is regional flexibility in looking at which actors are in a particular place and in a particular region that should be included in the cooperation in order to make it as good as possible. We have chosen not only to go from the top and build something completely new, but to build on the regional strength. I also hope that Penilla Gunther can help to influence the Christian Democrats' budget in the future so that we do not shake the bones of the regional export offices and the information campaigns that we are going to be working on against small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope for a positive debate on this in next year's budget.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-390	Mr President, I would like to To begin with what the Minister concluded with, I hope so too. I have launched a series of four seminars during the spring about the Swedish innovation system and with a workshop this autumn, which I would like to invite the Minister to see the views that emerge during the seminars from all the actors involved in this work. Yesterday we received a presentation of the OECD's review of the Swedish innovation system, their Country Report. It is only to be noted that they draw the same conclusions: that there are very many players, that the supply of capital is not fully coordinated and that there is not always coordination between the actors by who does what. That is why I come back to the question of coordination at regional level. I understand that we want to take advantage of the regional conditions, because they certainly are different. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that one must not forget any actors just because some have become so big while some are still very small. When it comes to the start-up and development of businesses, we know – and the Minister is well aware, not least through interpellation debates in this House – that support for several of the organisations has been cut by 24%. It is not easy for everyone to continue to contribute to a positive development so that companies can start and then develop first and foremost. If the Swedish Agency for Growth as an authority under the Minister's direction has done this on its own accord, I hope that the Minister will take them in the ear. Otherwise, I would like to have an explanation of how it is envisaged that companies should be able to continue working in a positive spirit also on the issue of exports.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-395	Mr President, I would like to I very much welcome Penilla Gunthers's commitment to the issues and hope that she will succeed in the Christian Democrats in the budget work. We cannot have a debate here where all parties first say that this is a good export strategy and that we should actually do a little more in a few areas and then pull away all the financial efforts on which the export strategy is based. It won't work, because then it won't make sense. I very much hope that we can create a more coherent situation for the economic conditions of export efforts. I understand that the strategy contains completely new focus areas. We did not choose, as is sometimes done in political contexts, to crumple everything that is already being done and say that it is a strategy. We chose to write a strategy for all that we are not doing today and see how we can do it more. If you do, it means it will cost more money. If you want to exchange export subsidies both on the growth market and at home, you have to finance it. We are careful about the regional aspect. That's why we've chosen not to just walk straight from the top and decide everything. The Swedish Agency for Growth, which is located regionally around Sweden and which leads much of the regional support work with regional growth policy, together with the regional development manager in each county, has to work on the issue. For example, it appoints a place together so that it is agreed on regionally. It also has an open approach to inviting key actors in the regional work to support businesses. The Swedish Agency for Growth will set a number of criteria. If you want to start a new regional export centre somewhere in Sweden, it will meet these requirements. It is, for example, a matter of receiving support within 24 hours. Regardless of the actor you are looking for, you should get help by going through a common door. We will continue to work on the issues, and we will invest a great deal in export and trade policy in the future. This is basically what builds Swedish prosperity and the Swedish economy.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-400	Mr President, I would like to Dark clouds pull in all over the world. Yesterday we saw another terrorist attack in Europe. Even on today's subject, trade, there are worrying signs. The ugly snout of protectionism appears in several countries when populist politicians play on nationalist strings. On this basis, I find it unfortunate that the government's trade policy is so strongly focused on exports. However, today's debate has given positive signals. I feel that in this House, including the Minister for Enterprise, there is strong support for Sweden to be one of the most free trade-friendly countries in the world, which affirms a two-way trade. Trade policy also has a foreign policy dimension. As several speakers have pointed out: by opening up trade with developing countries, we can contribute to a successful fight against poverty. Finally, I am pleased to note that the export strategy highlights Israel as a priority market.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-404	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for reservation No 1 by the Alliance under paragraph 2. Encouraging, facilitating and enabling – these are concepts raised in the report on sustainable enterprise policy. These are words that all parties can certainly support. Words that I also believe represent values that create the future for our country and provide long-term sustainability are job creation, growth, prosperity, welfare and competitive development. The Government wants sustainable entrepreneurship to go hand in hand with competitive development. So do I and the Alliance. Then, when sustainable enterprise policy is looked at in the seams, the gap will manifest itself. Gotland, Skåne, Jämtland, Halland, Northern and Småland companies together with those from Blekinge, Gothenburg and Bohuslän as well as Östergötland, Dalarna and everyone else have it in common that they can be family businesses, agriculture and small businesses. They want to sell their services and products in the form of vegetables, root vegetables, meat and fish to school kitchens, elderly care and hospitals. It is part of sustainable development. Students, parents and relatives of grandmothers and grandfathers, grandmothers and grandfathers in elderly care or those who are ill and hospitalized today want to see more of locally produced and locally produced products on food trays for our loved ones. Then it is as if the government no longer remembers that there is a farm, a family business or a person who runs his own firm that delivers products in the local area when talking about more of locally grown and locally produced. The local construction company, the carpentry company, the plumbing company and the baker will in future live up to a working time, holiday and salary that the municipality has stated to work after. It is connected, Mr President. The local business community with opportunities that link together with locally produced and locally produced products in public procurement is connected in terms of making the wheels spin for growth and jobs. But now it's threatened. Now the government wants to make demands on collective agreement-like conditions. Is there anyone in this House or who is following the debate in front of the television that can tell me what salary, working time and vacation a farmer can deliver after? The season affects the work and leave that may be possible. The government is heading in a completely crazy direction as this excludes rural entrepreneurs from being involved in delivering to the public. A farmer who wants to deliver potatoes in four municipalities should not only have his own business in mind and focus on a product of the best quality; he or she should also work according to contract, take a vacation and have a salary for the product delivered according to what each municipality enters into the contract. For each municipality, this may differ. This is the nail in the coffin for Swedish farmers, family businesses and small businesses who want to deliver products and services to the public. It does not create sustainable rural areas or more opportunities for local and locally produced products. Mr President, I would like to Sustainability is an important issue, and it is too important for the best to become the enemy of the good. Sustainability lies in finding new solutions and new ways of acting and working. It comes from ideas, and these must be given the opportunity to emerge and be tested. We talk a lot about test beds and how important it is for our country to have a home market to try out. Now that the government is going to stock up on various societal problems to be solved and when these are linked to how the companies are going to do, there will be little room left for own thinking, creative thinking and new innovations. It was as in the story: It was a thumb or not even that. A research bill is on its way. We have the ESS facility in Lund – this magnifying glass to test materials – and we have the Max IV laboratory, to take two examples of large plants with innovations and thus sustainability for a future. This, together with all the other activities that are going on in our country, is the basis for finding new solutions and sustainability. It is here, in these beds of ideas on small and medium-sized enterprises, that innovations come forward together with universities and research. Those of you who listen to space research know what to do. The forest companies said: We need a filter, and we think you have one. The answer was: If you tell us what to use it for, we can certainly deliver a solution, but it is not certain that it is a filter. The policy pursued by the government is, in our view, a policy that governs and governs detail in order to stop, limit and govern how it should be done. There are obvious risks that it will then be so controlled that you strangle the supply of opportunities to find ways forward and thus also sustainability. It is therefore important that the individual company can choose how it intends to work with sustainability issues based on its own business conditions. Some companies choose to join a community together with other companies in the global perspective in order to influence compliance with social perspectives in the manufacturing country. One example is that the electronics industry joins the EICC in order to jointly and globally influence social responsibility. It is voluntary on their part and not a charge from above. This is a wise way to go, as there are other ways to take on their sustainability work. For example, a company may choose to own the production on site in another country and thus have control over the entire chain from production to delivery. Some companies also have the idea of building villages and planting forests to be part of sustainability. Thus, companies can find their own solutions for how to work with social responsibility. They may make sports shoes of different kinds and tell us about sustainability factors, just as we are talking about food and what they contain. It gives a picture of what it's all about. Corporate social responsibility, CSR, means responsibility for the impact on society from an economic, environmental and social perspective. This is where companies connect via specific codes, accounting models, accounting standards and the like in the CSR area. If you want, you can do it in different ways to solve the same task. Detailed regulation of companies does not promote Swedish growth and development for Swedish companies. That was the whole of the previous debate. In addition to politics, there are companies that are far better than we politicians can influence, and they affect people to a large extent. One example is Puma, which uses representatives around the world who use their products and thus affect people in different ways. Mr President, I would like to Entrepreneurship is central to a globally small export-dependent country like Sweden and to get the wheels to spin for growth in localities out into regions and further nationally and internationally. Sustainability offers opportunities to find solutions. It also allows sustainable entrepreneurship to extend across the different policy areas. Here, from the tax side, we can address BEPS, base erosion and profit shifting, within the OECD. Within the state-owned companies, the alliance government has developed sustainability criteria, and the current government is continuing to work on them. It is good when nations across borders can find wise solutions for development. I would much rather talk about smart solutions than imposing charges. We have everything to gain from such solutions. The values expressed in the UN principles and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises assume that Swedish companies respect human rights and basic environmental standards when acting in foreign markets. We believe that parts of the government's policy will hit the business community hard because of the way it chooses to work with sustainability, not least against small businesses. When you look at an industry such as construction, you can see that the government now places higher demands on Swedish companies than on companies that will compete from other countries. I do not believe in a model that claims to stand for sustainability but dismantles Swedish companies' opportunities for the benefit of others. It is not sustainable for Sweden. The idea is not and cannot be to discriminate against Swedish companies over companies from other countries. It is not sustainable that it can be more beneficial for a construction agency from Poland than one from Sweden to operate here. In what way it would benefit Sweden's sustainability in the future, I find it difficult to understand. Similarly, we have excellent care and care in many parts, which were also mentioned in the previous debate, and really good things are being done around our country. We have a service export to take care of. Women go to work every day and have ideas and thoughts that become sustainable solutions that Sweden can invest in. Sweden can and will take our opportunities. We do not want to slow down, not stop, not cost or prevent, but it must be simple and smart to do the right thing.
i-2puJ1bm5Y24YaKev6jJ1SK	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating report NU12, Policy on Sustainable Business, which deals with a letter from the government with the same name and a number of motions in motion that have been raised in response to this letter. In this report, the Swedish Democrats have a reservation, No 2, to which I hereby request approval. Mr President, I would like to At the outset, I would like to say that the letter deals in certain parts with matters which we all parties are likely to be able to sign. At the same time, the letter also shows a clear left winger, and there is no evidence of the ambition to hold back with social engineering. Our general criticism of the government's approach is that unnecessary and unrealistic visions are prioritised over several policy areas where Sweden needs to strengthen its competitiveness towards the outside world. The letter's vision of sustainable business concerns many parts of the business community, but we want to emphasise that the conditions are very different depending on, for example, the industry, sector and size of companies. Large political visions that can burden companies with increased costs or bureaucracy, we believe, should be implemented more cautiously. Mr President, I would like to The government states in the letter that it wants to ensure that company boards are made up of at least 40 per cent of each sex and announces at the same time that legislation in this area may become relevant if the companies do not comply with the government's pointers. We in the Swedish Democrats want to see an equal society where all citizens have equal rights, obligations and opportunities. However, our policy in the field of gender equality is based on the way men and women are, not how some ideological dogma thinks they should be. Linked to this, we are opposed to quotas and so-called positive discrimination. On the other hand, we welcome debates and opinion-forming for a less gender imbalance in the various professions or missions. Nevertheless, we believe that this is ultimately about adults who make free choices. Compulsive quotas on company boards are therefore opposed with emphasicity. The objective of 40% of the under-represented gender on company boards is, in fact, a direct mockery of the ability of skilled and independent men and women to take their place on their own merits. I can only imagine how it would feel to know that there are other people with higher skills than me and that I only sit where I sit because I have a certain gender. I don't think many people are interested in that. The fact that the government is now announcing legislation on forced quota is unfortunate. A little funny in this context, however, is the fact that the government's great party Social Democrats within their own movement find it extremely difficult to live up to what you want to impose on others. For example, 14 out of 18 members of LO's leadership are men. This means that it is only 22% women. Why you can't sweep your own door first, I find it a little difficult to see, but if this advertised legislation on forced quotaing on company boards should also include organisations such as LO, I haven't been able to read out. It would be interesting to find out. Mr President, I would like to One of the more uplifted parts of the government's letter is the climate issue. It is described as so often in other contexts as a matter of fate, and it is written that Sweden must consolidate its role as a front country. Linked to this, we would like to emphasise that Sweden has long had the lowest CO2 emissions of all comparable industrialized countries and hardly has anything to be ashamed of in an international perspective. We believe that Sweden's challenge instead lies in ensuring energy supply and maintaining the desire for long-term energy investments. Such investments must, of course, be made in parallel with long-term good environmental development in order not to jeopardise Sweden's or Europe's global competitiveness. If excessive costs are imposed on companies, this will hamper economic growth and thus reduce the resources for research and development. There is also a risk that increased costs for companies will result in the relocation of production and thus increase so-called carbon leakage, i.e. that CO2 emissions will not decrease but only move away. The most important priorities of Sweden's democrats are that we must reduce carbon leakage and strengthen Swedish and European competitiveness. When we in Sweden democrats talk about sustainable entrepreneurship, profitability is central. How sustainable is it really to stifle businesses with increased costs and bureaucracy? We in the Swedish Democrats have focused on the competitive situation for Swedish industry, where we raise issues related to growth, infrastructure, energy, education and much more. We also want to introduce competitively neutral economic and labour law facilitations for both Swedish small businesses and workers in the area of rotation rules, start-up-own subsidies, employer's contributions and sick pay. The fact that small and large companies have the opportunity to make money and grow is good for the whole of society and a prerequisite for the welfare of future generations and the development of the nation. Not taking this fact clearly into account can difficult be different from the concept of sustainable entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to briefly highlight the issue of the European Structural Funds, which we also raise in our reservation. We believe that they should be abolished, just as we also believe that European socio-economic projects should be phased out. We believe that the funds are heavily distributed to projects that are constantly cost-driven, and we see it as unreasonable that Swedish taxpayers should have to finance labour market policy measures in Europe. We have enough problems here at home.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-441	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I and the Center Party welcome the Government's ambitions to work towards a more sustainable business. The letter shows both the government's policy in this area and the expectations of companies' sustainability efforts. There are a number of issues related to sustainable entrepreneurship. These are human rights, working conditions, environmental considerations, anti-corruption, gender equality, the perspective of children's rights, business ethics and taxation. In addition, the issues concern more policy areas than industrial policy alone. Mr President, I would like to However, I think that there are some question marks in the government's general industrial policy that do not go hand in hand with what is stated in the document. One is that the government has recently decided to introduce annual pay surveys for many of our companies. Unfortunately, this is nothing more than symbolic policy, and it means nothing more than more administration for companies. It's anything but sustainable. Let me explain. The government is thus backing the band and introducing annual pay surveys for all companies with more than ten employees. This will send out the signal that there will be strong efforts to tackle the pay gap between women and men. Unfortunately, there's a blow in the air. Sweden has previously had annual salary surveys, but it chose to change it to take place instead every three years and include companies with 25 or more employees. This has not slowed down the smoothing of the gender pay gap, but has continued in the right direction at the same pace. According to the Mediation Institute, this is largely due to the fact that the composition of the labour market has changed so that women are more entrenched in occupations with higher wages. The Mediation Institute also says that there is a trend towards reduced professional segregation. The positive development thus has several explanations and therefore the impact is unlikely to be higher for returning to annual surveys. But does the government even think that this will have positive effects? As I said earlier, it is more about pursuing symbolic politics. On the other hand, if it had been looking for an effect, it would have been possible to commission the Discrimination Ombudsman to follow up and review existing surveys. Now it leads to more administration, and small businesses have enough of that anyway. Mr President, I would like to Another question mark is women's entrepreneurship and leadership. The government calls itself feminist and yet chooses to withdraw all targeted initiatives in this area. The successful work with the ambassador's network for women, where the focus was on promoting women's entrepreneurship, you have chosen to finish. You have also completed your work with the Board of Directors and, instead of continuing this job, you choose to threaten the stock exchange boards with quotas. In addition, you have recently completed your cooperation with the non-profit organisation Winnet, which has been around for 15 years and which, with its 8,000 members around the country, has done a fantastic job for gender equality and women's entrepreneurship. Is this really sustainable policy in this area? In addition to the fact that these targeted efforts have been removed, we also see that fewer women choose to start a business.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-451	If you look in the rear-view mirror you can see that there has been a dramatic change for the worse. Between 2006 and 2012, the number of enterprises run by women increased by 50,000, and the number employed by women's enterprises increased by 130 000. It strengthened women's economic power and created more jobs in Sweden. The fact that the positive trend has now been broken and that it is turning downwards can be traced back to the conclusions of the GEM study, namely that political uncertainty discourages start-ups. It is very much about the study on profits in welfare that is now being carried out and also about deteriorating conditions in relation to RUT. The world is changing and we are seeing large flows of refugees. In order to make use of all the skills, we also need what is usually called simpler jobs. Not all people who come to our society are highly educated, but they still have a great deal to contribute – as long as you get that opportunity. Sweden is one of the countries in the EU with the lowest proportion of easy jobs. This is because we have been streamlining many activities and jobs for a long time, and there are now higher demands on education. Mr President, I would like to Despite this, RUT is halved and ROT deductions are reduced, jobs that have reduced the proportion of black jobs and have given rise to a large number of new companies. In fact, these companies have employed many people who have previously been far from the labour market. Although the government has now agreed that the RUT deduction will apply to more areas, we need to restore the deductions to the original level. This is also verified by the Director-General of the Public Employment Service, but unfortunately the left-wing parties are slowing down. It's a shame, especially for the new Swedes who need a first job to go to. Mr President, I would like to We know that many entrepreneurs hesitate when hiring the first person. Will you be able to afford it? Is there coverage for another person throughout the year? In order to encourage companies to take the step to do just that, the Center Party has proposed that employers' contributions for the first employee be avoided for the first two years. The other day the government proposed a similar reform, but unfortunately it does not include all companies. The stock companies are exempt and I regret that. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I wonder if the government thinks it is sustainable to increase taxes by 27 billion for Swedish companies and at the same time call it sustainable. After all, it is companies that are the basis for our well-being.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-459	Mr President, I would like to Gathered members and students! The government is talking about sustainable entrepreneurship. Sustainable entrepreneurship – taste those words! I'll tell you something that you don't always learn from the Landsorganisation's internal training for ombudsmen. Jobs are created by enterprising people of flesh and blood. We only get sustainable entrepreneurship if we give entrepreneurs the opportunity and tools to create jobs and growth. Sustainable entrepreneurship is not achieved by stopping ultimatums, regulatory problems or trade bans for women who create freedom of choice in welfare. Sustainable entrepreneurship is not achieved by over-reliance on state ownership. Sustainable entrepreneurship is not achieved by requiring collective agreements in public service contracts. What the government is working for is unsustainable entrepreneurship that is under high tax pressure and difficult to understand rules. As an entrepreneur, I know that there are few things that an entrepreneur dislikes as much as uncertainty. I have read the Government's proposal and can say that it is not very sustainable. On the other hand, it creates uncertainty, the same uncertainty that has caused thousands of welfare entrepreneurs to find it difficult to expand, difficult to obtain loans and difficult to obtain rental contracts. As my colleagues mentioned, the feminist government investigator Ilmar Reepalu has not created sustainability with his investigation. He's just kept creating uncertainty. To ensure our well-being, we need strong companies operating in a strong and predictable market. Swedish companies are world leaders in areas such as climate neutrality and smart solutions that benefit both workers and consumers. There we have come a long way, albeit not all the way in the work of gender equality. The government's strategy for sustainable entrepreneurship is not to be trusted for the companies it claims to protect. Instead, it wants to regulate traders in detail with a centralist policy. Entrepreneurs know what sustainable entrepreneurship is, and it is in their own interest that their activities are conducted in a sustainable manner. Finally, I would like to strike a blow to sustainable employment. We are talking about sustainable entrepreneurship, but sustainable work is absolutely as important as sustainable entrepreneurship. According to the Government's submission, the aim is to develop the Swedish labour market model. That is something we Liberals have been fighting for a long time with our alliance colleagues. A first step is to reduce the high entry wages, which we have been out with in connection with the start-up jobs. We in the Liberals want everyone to join us.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-468	Mr President, I would like to I support the Alliance's reservation No 1. I would also like to mention that the Christian Democrats have a special opinion. In the letter we are discussing, the government sets out its view on what sustainable entrepreneurship is. A number of issues are concerned, such as human rights, working conditions, environmental considerations, anti-corruption, gender equality and more. If one is to have a consistent view of all these issues throughout society, it is obviously not just about sustainable companies, but rather an ethical basis, an ethical approach to issues that affect how to handle people properly, for example when it comes to health and safety at work. It can also be a question of having a management view of the environment, nature and so on. An association of environmental considerations, profitability and social responsibility is well in line with the Christian-Democratic view of society, which is based on the social market economy. All of these three elements are equally important in the transition towards a more sustainable society, not just entrepreneurship. But we must help everyone to act responsibly by following international standards and guidelines, minimizing the negative impact on society and contributing to a more sustainable development of society. Mr President, I would like to There are many talks, not only in this country but all over the world, about how to meet societal and sustainability challenges in new ways with new business logic or new business models and how entrepreneurship in itself can contribute to economic, social and ecological sustainable development. We talk about social innovation and social entrepreneurship, which aims to create social benefits or meet specific challenges through new or improved sustainable services, goods or working methods. Ultimately, it is, of course, hoped that those measures and issues will contribute to a more inclusive society, because we know that communities that are characterised by trust between people will also create more entrepreneurship. The emergence of these new business models, which partly overturn traditional entrepreneurship, can of course contribute to sustainable development. We are talking about sharing economy, circular economy, collaborative consumption, social franchising and a lot of different other concepts. Ecosystem services are also mentioned in this letter. Two of the most famous examples in the world are the Uber taxi service and the Airbnb hotel service. Now it has become apparent that the two very examples may not be the prime examples that one would like to highlight as good examples. Any business model can be abused by misuse of people's trust. Right after this debate comes a debate on taxi services. I guess I'm among those who don't think that Uber is something that should compete with the taxi companies we have. It is another discussion, but the question is about these business models. If we can increase innovation, we will also increase competitiveness, and then we will contribute to more jobs. The work to promote sustainable innovation, social entrepreneurship and new business models must ultimately be able to relate to really small companies as well as the really large ones, who have people employed to manage environmental accounting, create environmental management systems and of course also work with CSR, corporate social responsibility, perhaps in collaboration with other organisations or companies. Some of the smallest enterprises are labour-integrated social enterprises. They're very close to my heart. In these, it is a question of being able to work 100% of your ability. The letter contains a section on public procurement. The Christian Democrats' special opinion deals precisely with the opportunities for these people and companies to participate in public procurement. Work integration social enterprises, ASF, are not charities. These are small companies with people who sometimes have a rather difficult background. And who of us could not be in need of such a company, such a business, where you feel that you are participating 100% of your own ability? The possibility of profitability in these companies is sometimes rather small, since it is simply not possible to participate on the same terms as everyone else in procurements, whether it be large companies that want to buy services or public services. As politicians, however, we can actually influence public activities. As a Christian Democrat, I would therefore like to emphasise the social considerations that can be taken into account in public procurement. It is an opportunity that I believe we are not making full use of in the municipalities, county councils, regions and the state today. The EU Procurement Directive, which provides the legal basis for public procurement, offers much more scope to take account of social considerations. I know that there is an EU directive that will be implemented, so perhaps there will be a little more talk about this in the future. I would like to highlight this issue in this debate. The organisation of Swedish work integration social enterprises has as its motto: Sustainable companies for sustainable people. I believe that we all benefit from having an ethical approach, an ethical basis, to the business regardless of what it may be about. Whether we sell goods or services, it is ultimately a matter of actually seeing people as we ourselves want to be viewed.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-481	Mr President, I would like to The export strategy and sustainable entrepreneurship policy are both key elements of the government's job agenda. New markets are opening up to sustainable products with sustainable production. It is gratifying that there is such a large consensus in the Swedish Parliament to raise the level of ambition in sustainable entrepreneurship. Otherwise, I don't know how to interpret the three movements in this area. Mr President, I would like to In fact, Sweden is the sixth country in the world to adopt an action plan in line with the guiding principles of the United Nations. In Davos in 1999, then Secretary General Kofi Annan spoke about giving the global market a human face – as he put it. The state and companies would agree on common principles concerning human rights, working conditions and the environment. The government's policy for sustainable entrepreneurship is therefore developed in dialogue with companies, trade unions, civil society, academia and others. We live in a globalised world of 80 000 multinationals and millions more small and medium-sized enterprises. Companies are important players in the global arena. Our Swedish companies affect the conditions for employees every day abroad and here at home in Sweden. It is gratifying that so many are leading the way and taking the lead in sustainable business. The Government's letter shows, on the one hand, what the Government intends to do, and, on the other hand, the expectations and recommendations it gives for the sustainability work of companies. Mr President, I would like to For companies, it is in brief the responsibility to respect human rights, which means that companies' activities should not cause, contribute or be linked to human rights violations. It is about decent working conditions and workers' rights. This means freedom of association and the right to organise and negotiate collectively. It is about child labour and of course about the strong Swedish model that creates good conditions for security, development, growth and competitiveness. Here the government wants to develop and not dismantle the Swedish model. Swedish salaries and conditions shall apply to everyone who works in Sweden regardless of age, gender or nationality. Once the social partners have agreed in collective agreements, it is important that the legislation is designed to promote the application of the conditions. With this in mind, it is also important that the government continues to work towards a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. It is about companies' part in the responsibility for the environment and climate. The overall goal is to hand over to the next generation a society where the major environmental problems are solved and to work on the 16 environmental quality objectives set by the Swedish parliament. It is about companies' responsibility for ethics and anti-corruption. According to the World Economic Forum, the cost of corruption is estimated to represent more than 5 percent of global gross domestic product. It distorts competition, undermines confidence in democratic institutions and threatens the legitimacy of the rule of law. It is about the responsibility of companies for social development. Swedish companies are expected to act on an equal footing in Sweden and abroad, and they can be good role models through an equal distribution of power and influence and equal pay. It is not just about justice; it is actually effective and sustainable. There are clear links between women's educational attainment and a country's economic growth and prosperity. Mr President, I would like to Then what's the government gonna do? I can mention a few things. It shall ensure that it is possible to have its case examined if human rights are violated. Another measure is to increase knowledge about sustainable entrepreneurship at Swedish embassies so that they can better support Swedish companies to do business abroad. Sweden's ambassador for sustainable entrepreneurship plays an important role in this work. Sustainability is also an important component when Team Sweden makes its promotional trips. Civil society and researchers have asked for a review of Swedish legislation to see if there are gaps in relation to the UN's guiding principles that need to be addressed. It should also be done. The state should lead the way and lead the way with the state companies. In 2012, the UN Guiding Principles were included in the State's ownership policy. More proactive work has been undertaken on these issues. Mr President, I would like to Sustainability and sustainable entrepreneurship are an increasing issue in the debate. The pressure comes from consumers, the media, employees and, more recently, investors. We see that the business community expresses a willingness and ambition to take responsibility for global development. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth's latest report on sustainable entrepreneurship, 16 000 small and medium-sized enterprises have responded. It has been shown that companies that have active sustainability work have on average a higher willingness to grow, are more innovative and are more internationalised than other companies. It has also been shown, for example, that as many as 45% of companies that have active environmental work want to grow in terms of turnover and number of employees. The corresponding figure for non-businesses is 33%. The demand for sustainable products has never been greater than today. And it keeps growing. When companies show that their ideas are sustainable, it is a competitive advantage whether they have less impact on the environment than their competitors, if they make a contribution to society where they operate or if they import Fair Trade products. Mr President, I would like to I will give three examples from the little to the big. Last Monday, I opened Jämtland's largest solar cell plant, and Sweden's largest grass-roots plant, in Näversjön. It started with the people in the village together joining a study circle at ABF 2012. Then they built the plant. For me, it won't be much nicer than that. The second is the strong development for Lindbäcks in Piteå. They are expanding to triple their production of multi-family buildings made of wood. It is an investment of almost half a billion and it will create 150 new jobs. Lindbäck's goal is to develop the best sustainable solution for each area of production, logistics and work environment. The order book is full. The third is that parts of the Business Committee visited New York and met the Nordic companies in place to solve the city's ambitions to reduce the city's building-based emissions by 30 percent by 2025, including building multi-family buildings in wood – 20 floors, but we were in the United States, the begging the better. Mr President, I would like to It is about Swedish companies remaining at the forefront, being innovative, modern and attractive to their employees, consumers and investors. They should keep pace with development and create value and profit in the future, too, when competition is strengthened. They shall act in accordance with the guidelines and make human rights and sustainability part of their core business. In the broader perspective, it is about getting more successful and world-leading companies in Sweden for more jobs and increased growth. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-498	Mr President, I would like to There is much to be discussed about sustainable entrepreneurship, but I was going to stick to the elements that Mrs Anna-Anna-Caren mentioned: posting directives and public procurement. There will soon be a bill dealing with procurement. It contains legal elements that say that companies – we can take the construction sector as an example – should have the same conditions here at home in Sweden as in other countries. That is not the case, however. The Swedish companies will be subject to greater demands than the foreign ones. This means that large companies operating on the export market can get out of the country and compete, but the small and medium-sized enterprises that the government claims to protect do not stand a chance. Compared to others, they will be subject to even greater requirements that they must meet in order to participate. Or companies from other countries get an advantage over Swedish companies when it comes to building and operating in Sweden. I understand that this is precisely what was not envisaged by the government. Therefore, it is quite remarkable that such legal wordings are made in a procurement proposal that will promote sustainability and enable Swedish companies to export and sell both within and outside Sweden. I'd like AnnaAnna-Caren to explain how this is connected.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-503	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, AnnAnn-Charlotte! The question was whether I understand you correctly, whether collective agreements be or not. We have a model in Sweden, the Swedish model, where collective agreements are the path we have chosen. Why have we chosen it? Well, companies and employees have chosen it together because if you sign a collective agreement, you know that there is good order in the Swedish labour market and that you compete on equal terms. Collective agreements are something that has been incredibly good for Sweden, and of course this should apply in the Swedish labour market. I do, however, have a question for you, Ann-Ann-Charlotte- Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, to say in the speaker's chair. I'm so sorry. Exports are increasing, the tourism industry is strong and Sweden is doing better than in a very long time. The Moderates, we can see, spend almost 500 million less on Category 24. In two years it will be elections, and the government has now invested 45 million more than the Moderates in ex port promotion and 20 million more at Visit Sweden to market Sweden abroad. What is your message to the entrepreneurs who want to export, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, and what is your message to the tourism industry? Is there something that you will add to your budget, or is it your intention that you should not give priority to those areas?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-508	Mr President, I would like to For 800 billion or probably 1 000 billion a year, SMEs sell products and services to the public. It's about our schools, our care for the elderly and our medical care. 60% of those companies have agreements that are good. These are the nicest companies in the local business community with good products. They do not have what is called collective agreements. They have something else; it's just something else. Employees can have higher wages and longer holidays. I would like to know in the final line from Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg: What is the government's policy for this? Farmers, family entrepreneurs and sole entrepreneurs are now excluded from participating, selling, growing and getting these services in place. 1 000 billion a year, there is an opportunity to expand entrepreneurship. In addition: If you start with the person you are interested in when it comes to travel or sick trips and decide what you should be able to get when you are going, then you also achieve good conditions for the employees. It's about starting at the right end and describing a journey that doesn't make people run or travel around the region when they're going to rehab and so on. If you start at that end, with the needs of the little man, you also achieve the opportunities of the employees. Is this something that Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg's party will be watching? The tourism industry is very important, and it will grow. It is one of the greatest industries we have, and I look forward to developing that work. When Anna-Caren-Caren's government submits 2018, we will be ready to take over it.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-513	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! Our government does not strive to hand over government power, but it is something that we will hold hard on and keep. I don't know what it is about the Moderates and collective agreements, Ann-Charlotte. The business community, together with the workers, decides on order and order in the labour market and good competition, healthy competition. Why is it so hard for you to think it's good? For me, it's something quite natural. You set a standard, and you hold it. The rules are known; they are transparent and transparent. Collective agreements are what we have chosen in Sweden, in the Swedish model, and they have served us well.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-516	Mr President, I would like to An equal society is a sustainable society. I think most people can agree with that. Unfortunately, when it comes to entrepreneurship, it does not look like that. There are still more men than women who both start and run businesses in this country. Should more women do so, it would benefit not only women themselves but also the Swedish economy and employment. Unfortunately, women's start-ups fell drastically between 2013 and 2014 by as much as 40 per cent. That's anything but good. Of course you can discuss why. Personally, I absolutely believe that this has to do with the welfare discussions, where the Left Party has had too much influence over the government's budget and you have the opinion that it should be ugly to make money. I'm sure the half-life of RUT has made a difference, too.
i-7C6YsDVSCEhqDWeD4iBNnP	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the question! I share Helena Lindahl's view that it is incredibly important that there should be more women entrepreneurs. Now it's 29 percent, I think. As Helena Lindahl says, it decreased drastically in 2013, and I think this continued in 2014. What the government has done is to give assignments to the Swedish Agency for Growth and also to the regions to review the structures with money and resources. The Swedish Agency for Growth will look at who gets access to the loans and do other things. The government's view is that diversity and women's entrepreneurship are incredibly important and that it should be distributed in the same way. That is what the government has done about the issue right now. But I share Helena Lindahl's view that things are moving too slowly. We can see that the rate of female entrepreneurship has not increased in a long time. We need more women who dare to take the chance to start a business.
i-4bdWCxD7AM33hUcJbGYTsG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg, for your answer! I would just like to say that between 2006 and 2012, women's start-ups increased quite a lot by 50 000 companies. What is remarkable is that between 2013 and 2014 it decreased so drastically. I would like to go into what you said, Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg, about assignments to the Swedish Agency for Growth and Regions to work more for gender equality and women's entrepreneurship. The 36 million a year that is now being invested has been taken from the organisation Winnet. I don't know if Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg knows about it. Winnet is a non-profit organisation that has been around for 15 years – I see that there are several in this House who are nodding – and has done an amazing job in terms of gender equality and women's entrepreneurship. The organization has 8 000 members, so there are not exactly any aunts standing outside Ica with placards calling for equality. It's actually a very professional and good organization. What I find sad is that in December the government informed them that they would not receive more money and that the cooperation that they had had for 15 years would now end. Instead, the government wants to allocate the money to regions and the Swedish Agency for Growth. Then I wonder: What can be more local and regional in terms of gender equality efforts and efforts on women's entrepreneurship than allowing people and non-profit organisations with experience on the ground to do so? Why do we remove this and introduce a top-down approach instead?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-528	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl! I know that this issue has been debated many times in this House. There have been several interpellations. You're talking about a top-down perspective. If I understand correctly, the government has chosen to transfer the money to the regional development managers, instead of the Swedish Agency for Growth, which one sees as a top-down perspective, distributing the money. You can still take part of the money. The money has not fallen, if I understand correctly, but it is the same money even if it is another boss for them. The money is now allocated to the regions, where you know exactly what needs to be done locally and regionally. You know it better there than we do here in Stockholm.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-530	Mr President, I would like to Finally, Sweden has a government that takes sustainable business seriously. The Action Plan, Policy for Sustainable Business, is really worth reading. It is a major step towards sustainable development. It can be downloaded. I recommend this to all audiences and viewers who, by chance, have not read it yet. Read it! It is a Feelgood reading, if I may allow myself an English expression that I do not have a good Swedish translation of. It makes you feel good to read it. There are so many good forces and good initiatives. There are so many good things happening, and there are many concrete proposals from the government regarding how to take advantage of this and support the good. AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg has now well presented Swedish examples and what is in the plan. There is much about sustainable entrepreneurship and environmental action. There are also international guidelines for sustainable enterprise, corporate responsibility for social development, gender equality, decent working conditions, work against corruption and so on. This is an enormous amount, so I choose to try to complement AnnaAnna-Caren and also highlight some good examples from abroad that are not yet so well known in Sweden but are well worth looking at and reusing in an appropriate form. In many cases it is already done. Procurement has been up here several times. It is a powerful tool to steer society in a sustainable direction if you want. Otherwise, you can ignore it and let it go the way it is. But now we have a very good work from the government with support for the public purchasers who are doing a great job in the country. Many take precedence in municipalities and regions. There is a national authority and support in this way, and a national procurement strategy should also be developed. We already have opportunities with current legislation. The European Union has now given us more opportunities with the directive that exists. In Scotland, since 2006, I would like to recall, the government has been working on a conscious approach to social procurement. This means that companies have been required to win contracts, such as building the new large hospital in Glasgow, to hire a certain number of apprentices, a certain number of long-term unemployed, a certain number of disabled people and so on. This has produced very good results. This is happening in Sweden too. We can do much more here. It's really good that the ball is rolling. Most companies want to contribute not only to maximising profits for themselves or as dividends to shareholders. They want to contribute to society. There is a network called Gemeinwohl-Ökonomie – almost translated as an economy for the common good – which has members mainly in Austria, Germany and Italy, but also some Swedish companies are involved. There are currently a few thousand companies involved, as well as a number of municipalities. These companies are working on producing balance sheets that count not only on economic profit but also on how much they have contributed to society in terms of ecological benefit, social benefit, gender equality and workplace democracy. It's also financial- ma n borrowing money to each other in g nosjöanda. These companies are profit-making and go perfectly well, and they help each other. It's cooperation. It's very exciting. Then there are benefit corporations in the United States, which some of us in the Committee on Economic Affairs have met. It is a specific form of enterprise where it is inscribed in the form of enterprise that you should not only create economic profit but also ecological and social profit. Of course, companies join voluntarily. They are registered, and you can also have your company certified. This is also where society comes in, the interaction between the public and the private. There are ongoing discussions about giving these companies an advantage in public procurement. Philadelphia has discussed this. There has also been talk of tax relief. I know that these credentials exist in at least 20 U.S. states now. It's very exciting. We need technological innovations – I'll get into that later – but also social innovations. Let me take another example from outside. I have given reading tips, but I also thought to give a movie tip, so pop the popcorn and go to Youtube and find documentary filmmaker Patrik Witkowsky's film Can we do it ourselves? It describes, among other things, a worker-owned home care cooperative in the Bronx, which is a poor part of New York City. There are over 2,000 people working in home care there, and they own their company. They have good conditions. They have paid medical care and vacations, which is not really available in this industry in the United States to a large extent. Nearly 11 million Americans work in more or less labor-owned companies. Did you know that? It's kind of fascinating. This could become bigger and develop here in Sweden as well. We already have social entrepreneurship, work integration companies and the like for people who are far from the labour market, and that is absolutely excellent, but I would like to broaden the concept of a social enterprise, so that there will be a little more mainstream here in Sweden, so that it will be common in any company, regardless of who works there. All companies should be social. We do not want antisocial companies to be inspired by. We also need technological innovations. Climate is a matter of destiny. We in Sweden cannot settle down and think that we are doing everything well. Should everyone consume as Swedes on average – it is very unequally distributed in Sweden – we would need a number of more globes than all we have, especially if we include emissions caused by our consumption and our international journeys. We have an important task to ensure that we become a fossil-free welfare society. I do not see it as a regulatory problem with demands on climate, the environment and accounting for how to work with environmental issues. We think the polluter should pay. Account shall be taken of ecosystem services. The environmental quality objectives shall be based on the business model. There is also a need for funding for environmental technologies. There is not a lack of money in the world, but sometimes they do not get where they are needed at their best. Green bonds and a green investment bank are also addressed in the Action Plan. A green investment bank has been in the UK for three four years. There was the idea of investing in renewable energy, waste management and similar environmental technologies, where the market does not invest and where the market has failed. You go in with some public money, and then you attract private capital. That's the mission you have. Profit should be made, private capital should be attracted and greenhouse gas emissions reduced. One to three is the first year; one public pound generates three private. We would benefit from something similar in Sweden. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson mentioned test beds. Let me take an example from the United States. There's something called Arpa-E. It's federal money. George W Bush and Congress decided on it in 2007, and it came into operation in 2009. It was based on a model of a previous research platform for military technology, but this is for energy technology. It has come a long way and researched state money, and a number of private companies have emerged from it. Finally, I have to raise the issue of tax evasion. I'm a little confused about the reservation from the Moderates and others. Do you not want the transnational companies to do their own thing and pay taxes in the countries in which they operate? That's extremely important. These are huge sums that poor countries, in particular, are losing out on tax planning and tax evasion. It is important and good that this is lifted up here. In poor countries, the sum of tax revenue forgone is much greater than the aid they receive. In short: You should do the right thing, especially if you are a big company. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-550	Mr President, I would like to The government has in recent years withdrawn all efforts aimed at women's entrepreneurship and leadership. This is about the Ambassador's network for women, which Annika Lillemet has probably heard of. It involved a huge number of women in the country and basically stated that they would be ambassadors for women's entrepreneurship. They went out to organizations and schools and talked about the issue. Unfortunately, it has been withdrawn. Another thing that has also been withdrawn is the Board of Women, which was designed to increase awareness and the possibility for women to participate in boards. The latest example is Winnet. It's a fantastic non-profit organization that's been around for 15 years. A few days before the Christmas break, it was suddenly announced that you would not get your 36 million, because they would go to the regions instead. So what we heard from the Social Democrats is the government's big investment in women's entrepreneurship. Women's start-ups decreased by 40 per cent between 2013 and 2014. Then it is offensive that the only effort the government makes is to remove 36 million from a non-profit organization that is doing well to spend on the regions. Or as Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht said: to implement gender equality decisions in regional development plans. But hello? You should be able to do that anyway. We live in the 21st century. You shouldn't need $36 million to do that. How do you work as a feminist government to seriously increase the number of women who start and run businesses?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-557	Mr President, I would like to AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg has already developed the question and answered it. If I have understood correctly, it was the fixed-term project that the Centre Party has not proposed any further funding in its budget either. However, I may be wrong and therefore wonder if Helena Lindahl has any other information. The money is there, and I trust the regions. I think, of course, that it is important for women to have the same opportunities as men to start a business.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-559	Mr President, I would like to It is distressing and serious that the response we receive from representatives of a feminist government is to take 36 million from the non-profit organisation Winnet, which has worked hard on gender equality in the regions and locally. They have also worked with women's entrepreneurship. They have also worked internationally to implement this successful model elsewhere. Now they have to close their offices. I met these women last week when they had their annual meeting. They were in despair and said, "What are we going to do now?" The government doesn't think we've done a good job? They were not even told that, because both Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht and Mikael Damberg made themselves unreachable for a whole year, until the day they decided that the regions would receive the 36 million. If this is the feminist government's big investment in women's entrepreneurship and gender equality, I'm afraid of the dark. There are regulatory letters. Although some projects are limited in time, the regulatory letter to an authority, such as the Swedish Agency for Growth, points out that it is important that the agency pursues issues related to gender equality and women's entrepreneurship. But even you haven't, because you don't think it's important. You hijack female entrepreneurship at the ankle bumps. You're investigating profits in welfare, you're halving RUT, and you're pulling in all the efforts aimed at women's entrepreneurship. It's a anti-woman government. Calling oneself feminist in this context is a mockery of all female entrepreneurs around the country.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-565	Mr President, I would like to . Women's Opportunity Government, now it's breast tones. I ask Helena Lindahl again: have you put this money in your budget? I didn't get an answer to that question. As I said, we trust the regions, but I will take this with me. Maybe things can be done better. Maybe we can get some good stuff into regulation letters in the future. You can do things in different ways.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-567	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd dwell on public procurement. Although I received answers earlier from AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg, I thought that the Green Party would be able to answer the question. There's a lot going on, and you're doing a lot of good. There is g nosjöanda, business and good trade. That's good. It also mentioned a powerful procurement tool. A powerful tool can be used to achieve major goals in a positive direction. It can also easily break what is being built up. I am very concerned about what is happening in the area of procurement in view of the policy that the Green Party claims to be pursuing. Swedish companies in rural Sweden are trying to enter public procurement to a greater extent because people are demanding locally produced and locally produced products. However, these companies do not have similar collective agreements. Why? Because they're a different type of company. They run agriculture and are family businesses or self-employed. They work after season. Unfortunately, the plants do not grow, do not fall the rain and do not shine the sun so during the year that you can get up at seven o'clock and go home at four o'clock, but you have to work in a way that makes the wheels spin in our country. If the spirit is to increase the number of small and medium-sized enterprises that can sell these products to the Swedish municipalities, county councils and regions, I wonder how this will be possible when you now exclude them with your collective agreement-like conditions and thus put an end to their existence.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-574	Mr President, I would like to As Anna-Caren Sätherberg has already said, we naturally protect good working conditions in the Swedish model. It's extremely important. What is being done in many municipalities to help and facilitate for small and local producers is, for example, joint distribution and the like so that they can enter a market where they are too small to meet the whole need for a product – cucumbers, carrots or whatever it may be. I know these things are done. I am also convinced that this can be resolved in a positive and good way. It is important to safeguard labour law.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-577	Mr President, I would like to I am very surprised by the answer. It doesn't matter what distribution method you have when there are over 640 different collective agreements in this country and something similar to them should be applied to a municipality, who says: It is I as a municipality, the City of Stockholm, who gets to decide how the person who will deliver to me will work, take out his vacation, have his insurance and his pension etcetera. That is what was the Swedish model, that we should not do so that there are suddenly new forms where the municipalities set the terms of the agreements? It was between employers and employees, wasn't it? Then a farmer can continue to make good deals if he has people employed on his farm. Now it can be that four municipalities have four different agreements, i.e. that you should work for a municipality of 25 percent and then 25 there, 25 there and 25 there, if you imagine that you should deliver. Should I split into four parts in order to deliver, or what should I do? From the beginning, I can't even get through the door, because maybe I don't work eight hours a day. It doesn't work, sheep then can't what we're supposed to protect – the crops on the ground – be produced. They do not say: We are taking a break now, and tomorrow we can start growing again, when the municipality has decided how the collective agreements should be done. That's not how the world works. In addition, with regard to the Swedish model, which I mentioned in my previous post, foreign companies will compete with Swedish companies and get better conditions than those. I don't understand the rhetoric here. Here we have had a debate all morning about exports and how dependent this country is on being able to sell its goods and products and that we actually do a lot of good in Sweden. Then it should stand back for the sudden benefit of someone else. Where is the Swedish model in it? Explain!
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-583	Mr President, I would like to Of course, everyone who works should have good conditions. It should not be wage dumping, social dumping or dumping of working conditions at all. Exactly how to do this, I hope that wiser people than I, who know procurement in detail, will solve. We have a great deal of work going on on procurement, and I am absolutely sure that this will be carried along and will be resolved.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-586	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating TU10, which is about professional traffic and the conditions there. The Committee on Transport has been a driving force in this to resolve many of the issues that exist in the haulage and taxi industries. But there's still a lot to do. First, I want to review what has happened – what the Alliance did in the past and what has happened since the new government took over the government after the elections. We started by introducing a customer responsibility, the first step, to give a responsibility to the person ordering a transport. We are prepared to proceed with one customer responsibility two and have given a mission to come up with such a proposal. We have given the opportunity to trample vehicles, charge a penalty fee and demand shipping documents in the car in order to be able to control whether it is a cabotage transport or not. Mr President, I would like to We've been conducting experiments with alco-bommers. They're done, and the outcome is very good. We hope that these alcoboms will come up as quickly as possible. We have also made an announcement here in Parliament that we want to get alco-boms at our border stations. We have drawn up a proposal for longer and heavier lorries, and we want to review the possibility of checking driving licences at border stations while going through alco-boms and testing that part. These were some of the proposals that we have implemented and that we have put forward in order to move forward with the future. Today, we have put forward a proposal that we want the haulage industry to have the opportunity to have a competition investigation that reviews the differences in employers' contributions, corporate taxes, controls, fees, the application of rules, fuel taxes and more. Mr President, I would like to What has the government done since it took over after the elections? Yes, new investigations were launched one year after the election, on October 1, 2015. Part of these were to be reported on 15 March 2016. However, it is stated that in principle nothing has been achieved and must continue to investigate these matters until 1 May 2017. The Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left and also the Swedish Democrats promised earlier that they would review a Holland model and possibly introduce it in Sweden. The report now sees this model. The Alliance did so even before the elections and stated that it is not a way forward. Even Holland today has poor control of what the Holland model means for their operations. What the new government has been doing for the first year is actually investigations. At the same time, they have promised that they will continue to investigate all of this until 1 May 2017. So what was said before the elections has not yet become anything. Mr President, I would like to The information that came from the investigation was that we should review fair conditions and fair competition on our roads, but then the investigator says it is complicated. Yes, you heard correctly, introducing the second step in ordering responsibility is so complicated that you want even more time to come up with a proposal. Finland introduced customer responsibility three years ago, and it cannot be so complicated to find out how they did to introduce customer responsibility two. Now the Government has given the task to proceed and investigate this until 1 May 2017. The second part of the proposal that came from the investigation was an announcement that we should examine the possibility of introducing driving and rest times rules similar to Danish ones, i.e. that you have a wing allowance of up to 5% before you go on fees and fines. Here, too, the investigator points out that it will not be introduced. This is strange given that Parliament has actually ordered it by an announcement. We assume that a proposal will be made on what this could look like in Sweden in the future. Mr President, I would like to What is possible to apply in Denmark should be perfectly possible to apply here in Sweden too. Just as the customer responsibility is perfectly possible to apply in Finland, it should be possible to apply here as well. We do not need to investigate this, but rather look at how it should be designed and then implement it. Another thing you mentioned was that you should look at if you need to go further with winter tires on more axles and evaluate. I think that is a good thing, but even there, the government takes a very long time to come up with an answer and a proposal. Instead of doing something about the situation and reviewing the competitive situation in the haulage industry, the government has devoted itself to reducing the profitability of Swedish haulage industry. A 50 ‐ trout has been put on diesel tax. This means that a truck in Sweden since this government took over will have to pay an additional 30 000 SEK in extra tax compared to what a foreign truck needs to pay if it has German or Danish diesel when it comes to Sweden. It is also planned for a kilometre tax of SEK 4 billion, i.e. 150 000 – 300 000 SEK per truck in Sweden, which will be carried by the haulage industry, Swedish companies and Swedish jobs. The employer's contribution has also been increased, which affects both the haulage industry and the taxi industry, given the young people who can work in the industry. What this government said before the elections it has not done, and as to what it intends to do, it has set up investigations that are so far ahead of time that the government probably does not have time to make sharp proposals before they lose the elections in 2018. This is serious given the situation in Sweden's haulage industry. We are a large and elongated country with long journeys. We have the highest diesel taxes. We know that lorries from the countries that come here often bring their own diesel or even bring illegal diesel. We introduced the possibility of squeezing, fines and requirements for shipping documents along the way. But, Mr President, what did this government do? Well, then they removed the traffic police, who would control this along the way. Today, therefore, it is relatively free for illegal transport to operate on the roads without a great risk of going there for illegality. Mr President, I would like to We put our own haulage industry at a disadvantage with tougher rules and higher taxes and favour illegal competition by removing the police and raising taxes. Thus our jobs disappear, and illegal transport can ravage our roads freely. Mr President, I would like to Another point we have raised earlier is the tests of alcoboms. They have struck well, and we had expected through the announcement that this would be a quick matter for the government to decide to put them up in our ports and thus remove illegal transport, with intoxicated drivers and other things. But even there, the government has now set up an investigation that concluded that it is better for the police to do these checks than for us to set up alco-boms. The police officer who is no longer on the roads, because it has been removed, is now going to take care of the alcohol controls in our ports. Everyone can figure out for themselves that we will not have any controls there, nor will we have any bars, if this government is allowed to continue on the line it has begun. We were ahead with the alcoboms in this country, but now we're losing power. We know that Danes have been here watching, and we know that Finns are now trying the alcoboms to move forward. We developed this and made a ready-made proposal on how it could be implemented in Sweden, but the current government put it in the drawer. Mr President, I would like to If we want to maintain a Swedish haulage industry in Sweden, we must continue to take the industry's problems very seriously. It is not enough to impose fines, complaints and legal proceedings if the government then removes the traffic police. The government's carelessness means that it is free to drive on roads with bad tires and low-taxed diesel, ignore driving and rest times, ignore taxes and employer's fees, ignore having a driving licence and ignore paying fines and congestion charges. We gave the tools and the rules, and this government removed the police. Swedish haulage industry is in a hurry if we are to move forward and the industry is to survive. That is why we have made a proposal that we want a competitiveness inquiry that looks at what distinguishes Swedish haulage industry from foreign, so that after that we can take a stand if we want to change and improve certain things. But we Moderates and the Alliance are apparently the only ones who think it is important to set up the competitiveness inquiry. Neither the Social Democrats, the Left Party, the Green Party nor the Swedish Democrats have supported the proposal for a new competitiveness inquiry for Swedish haulage industry, even though the industry has asked for this. It cannot be interpreted in any other way than to think that it is good as it is and that the investigation is not needed. I would like answers today from the government parties and also from the Swedish Democrats on the issues of the competitiveness inquiry. In the case of traffic police: When do we have a functioning traffic police in Sweden? When do we have the alcobommers in place in Sweden? And why do the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left and the Swedish Democrats say no to a competitiveness inquiry, which is requested by the industry? Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to wish the members of the Transport Committee, the Transport Committee's secretariat, the President and the President's Office happy Easter. I hope that everyone takes the opportunity to eat as many Swedish eggs as possible – it creates jobs and growth in Sweden.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-617	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Transport Agency has conducted an investigation that points to a number of shortcomings and applications that are unique to Sweden regarding professional traffic. On this basis, it is clear that there is a great need to carry out a major review of the work and application of the Swedish Transport Agency. Such a review should highlight how the Swedish Transport Agency, as a regulatory authority, manages its mission and should include, inter alia, putting a clear focus on assessing the reasonableness of current enforcement fees, but also looking at where errors in fines should actually be paid to companies in the event of infringements of driving and rest rules. I would like to point out that Sweden must have a system that does not penalise Swedish hauliers and drivers harder than the foreign hauliers. I believe that the current system for controlling driving and rest times is not appropriate to detect the various types of advanced cheating that occur with driver driving and rest periods. Therefore, greater focus and priority should be given to carrying out road inspections. The cheating methods used on the road, such as magnets on tachographs, dual driver cards, false training and false driving licences, must be vigorously countered by more roadside checks. The Swedish rules should be reviewed in order to avoid the current unequal competition between carriers operating in different countries becoming permanent. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to comment on the evaluation report on the application and sanctioning of driving and rest periods presented by the Swedish Transport Agency in March 2015. In the evaluation, the Swedish Transport Agency states that over time it has seen a need to investigate how the Authority's supervision and application of the rules on driving and rest times are carried out and that this includes an analysis of the company controls carried out and an analysis of judgments that justify a change of practice. The evaluation also took into account the fact that the industry has expressed its views on the fact that the regulatory framework is too square. The evaluation included an international comparison showing that several countries have chosen not to impose sanctions on carriers if only a few minor infringements are detected. Instead, a warning is issued. In this context, I would like to remind you that in May 2015 the Parliament addressed an announcement to the Government to review the possibility of allowing minor deviations from the driving and rest time rules for professional traffic. In its preparation, the Committee on Transport and Tourism pointed out that there is an EU-wide working time regulation in the field of professional transport that serves its purpose in such a way that it helps to provide the same conditions for all drivers in the EU. At the same time, the committee pointed out that Denmark, for example, has interpreted the rules on driving and rest times in professional traffic more generously and that they have accepted a form of general concession for driving and rest periods of about 5%. Against this background, the committee considered that the government should examine whether the management chosen by Denmark is compatible with EU rules in this area. In the light of Parliament's announcement, I welcome the fact that in October 2015 the Swedish Transport Agency was tasked with following up on implemented reforms and investigating certain current issues in the field of professional transport, which include, among other things, reviewing the possibility of allowing minor deviations from the rules on driving and rest times. At the same time, I can state that, according to the directive for the investigation, the Swedish Transport Agency will report on this work by 1 May 2017 – an investigation period of one and a half years. I believe that the specified investigation period is too long because it was apparent from the evaluation presented by the Swedish Transport Agency in March 2015 that there are already examples of other countries that have chosen other systems that are more flexible than the Swedish one in that smaller deviations from the driving and rest time rules are allowed before the penalty fee is due. I believe that the investigation period for the Swedish Transport Agency's mission is, to say the least, extended and that the investigation period should therefore be shortened with the aim of introducing the possibility of minor deviations from driving and rest times by 2016. Mr President, I would like to In view of the points I have made, I would like to endorse all our reservations, but for the time to come, I only ask for reservation 3.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-626	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a country with great distances, with plenty of space, with rich raw materials of various kinds and with a well-developed industry that takes care of and processes products for a global market. We are one of the most export-dependent countries, and most of what we send out and much of what we buy are bulky and heavy products. All of this, of course, generates a huge need for transport, and it presents challenges of various kinds. The road haulage business that is being developed together with other modes of transport is today an important part of modern Sweden, some of which have become the focus of the debate in several different ways. One area for debate is the issue of climate change. The fact that the transport sector accounts for a large part of the emissions from fossil fuel combustion is an aspect that should not be directly affected in today's debate, but it is a factor that will require investments in, among other things, new technologies in the future. There is therefore a need for a healthy economy and a confidence in the future. Another area for debate is about good and bad modes of transport. It is a debate that sometimes becomes somewhat bizarre. With almost religious undertones, the railway's praise is sung, and shipping sometimes gets to keep up with the description of good transport modes to counter the evil truck traffic. For the Center Party, this is quite the wrong starting point. All modes of transport will be needed, and policy has an important role to play in providing them with a good opportunity to develop. Then their merits will be rewarded and the challenges that all have met with a positive starting point. For example, when truck traffic sees opportunities for better environment and economy with heavier and longer vehicles, we try to find solutions to realise their plans. The Green Party says no and, as I understand it, proposes shorter vehicles instead. We are still waiting for what the government's proposals are. Similarly, trains and ships should be supported in their development towards greater competitiveness, and we from the Center Party see great opportunities here. A third area of debate is competitiveness vis-à-vis companies which in various ways disregard the rules that exist, for example, for how long you can sit behind the wheel, how many transports you can do within the country if you are foreign hauliers and more – thus different forms of cheating with the rules that apply. These rules have, of course, been added not least because we have not yet achieved such a levelling-off between the countries of the European Union that we can compete freely without restrictions, which is the long-term objective. For this intermediate form to work, we need to have a regulatory framework that provides acceptable conditions of competition for the domestic haulage industry and that these laws and rules are complied with. The alliance parties in their reservation 1 call for an investigation into the competitiveness of the haulage industry. To see how our Swedish hauliers' competitiveness in a broad perspective stands and what measures may be needed to further adjust the situation would be very valuable. Seeing the truth in the face is usually much better than putting the question in front of you. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would also like to point out the importance of other methods that can contribute to, as it is commonly termed, the best conditions. More laws and tighter controls are often both slow and quite blunt instruments. One of the most hopeful projects of this type is the so-called Fair Transport concept, where Swedish haulage companies work with a quality programme in which connected haulage companies commit themselves, a little carelessly put, to opting for both labour law and environmental law and to comply with traffic rules and tax laws. Imagine an extended concept according to this model and an agreement from transport buyers that they require companies that they purchase services from are Fair Transport certified. The idea is swindling. The Committee on Transport would have a simpler line and the conditions on the roads would be completely different. This could, in principle, be done as quickly as the expiry of the current transport contract. All the way to the consumer, one could influence. Just as we are today demanding reasonable working conditions, a ban on child labour and a minimal environmental impact on the product, we could demand a fair transport of the product to the customer – Fair Transport. This may sound like a meaningless wishful thinking. But in principle, I wonder what is really stopping. I'll talk a little bit about cabs. Similarly to the haulage industry, taxis have in recent years been subject to changes that have significantly affected the industry. It is about deregulation and changing forms of procurement. Driving taxis is an interesting job for many new arrivals, creating increasing competition for jobs. New technologies that challenge traditional methods also affect. As far as new technologies are concerned, the legislator is once again lagging behind. There is a need for clarification of rules on what is taxiing and what is car sharing and which vehicles can and should be exempted from the requirement for taximeters. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, let me establish two basic factors for how we in the Center Party think about both the haulage and taxi industry. We want industries with healthy competition in a market as open as possible, where even smaller companies can operate and where new technological advances develop industries and benefit the environment. Another thing that is equally important is that if this is to happen, it requires the laws and rules that are built up to create a well-functioning market to be followed up closely and infringements to be combated. We believe that the latter task is extremely difficult for our authorities if we do not get close cooperation and a good acceptance among the parties concerned for the best conditions on the market. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the joint alliance reservation to be approved 1. Of course, I support all our other reservations.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-637	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, Swedish truck traffic has been severely exposed to international competition. A large part of international competition on Swedish roads is caused by foreign cars driving longer than is permitted and thus exceeding the current cabotage rules. Current rules provide that only occasional transport is permitted and allow a foreign carrier who has completed an international carriage of goods to carry out a maximum of three domestic transport operations in another EU country for seven days. This regulatory framework is quite difficult to get to work because it is quite easy to slip away from it and abuse it. Competition is intensifying and the market share of foreign lorries on the roads is increasing. At the same time, the ethics of society as a whole has changed, and more and more companies are making use of cheap transport. This must change for the better. What we are now seeing is unethical and exploitation of labour in a way that is not worthy. The Swedish Transport Workers' Association's reports show that hauliers based in one country use temporary agencies to hire heavily underpaid drivers from another country. These operate domestic Swedish traffic illegally. Under these conditions, many Swedish skiers have difficulty surviving at all, and many have had to close down. I believe that there is a need for measures to strengthen the regulation so that we can get to grips with this. We must protect those hauliers who are actually close to us, our domestic hauliers, and who drive with better trucks. They have better environmental standards in their cars and better conditions for their drivers. Social dumping is a major problem, and the poor conditions for drivers and the unhealthy competitive situation have gone beyond all borders. Therefore, we in the Left Party would like to see precisely the model in Sweden that Sten Bergheden said they have backed from in Holland. I have spoken to the Transport Workers' Association today, and they confirm that they have received no report whatsoever that Holland is backing from this model. Rather, there was an investigation into whether the model would work against EU rules – and the investigation showed that it was possible. It was a couple of three years since the investigation was carried out, and the investigators concluded that it is entirely possible to do as in Holland. You should be employed directly, and you should not be able to escape by having an F tax note even though you are not self-employed. If we were in direct employment, it would also help to get subcontractors who are not doing well. It is therefore a very good model that I really hope the government will take a fresh look at. In the present situation, only the Left Party is driving this model, and it is actually very positive. What has been seen in Holland is that wages have been raised and conditions have improved for the riders. I really think we should take the situation seriously and review the model. The Left Party wants us to work towards the whole of Europe to push up conditions so that working conditions are improved. But we should be able to go ahead and show what can be done, just as in Holland, in order to be able to use it as leverage towards the EU and show that we can succeed in achieving both functional transport and good environmental standards and a good working environment. The road user charge was highlighted as something that would discourage the industry, but it is actually the case that those who are familiar with this realise that the road user charge would rather help regulate unhealthy transport. It is precisely because you have a GPS in the cars when using road wear charge, to measure how far the cars run. Then you will automatically get better control of the cars, and you can see if they have permission, if they manage their driving and rest times and so on. Ma n gets better control over the law. In order to reduce illegal cabotage, it is important that we have the means to control, and there is a need for more police action. The Left Party would like to see the Danish model, where it has a special police force that is specially trained and is only involved in controlling truck transport. We also want to spend extra money on this to, as in Denmark, work efficiently and get to these things. We have made a move on this and would like to see it in the future. Otherwise, we welcome the fact that the report highlights special training for the police. We think that is a good thing, but we want to go further. We have worked well in Denmark, and we think that we should follow it in Sweden. This is both a road safety problem and a health and safety problem as well as a problem for our domestic truckers. I would also like to press for the Fair Transport citizens' initiative, which we are happy to sign. They are gathering names across Europe to push for and bring the issue to the EU's agenda. I would therefore like to tell you about it – please sign this! They need 1 million signatures, so it needs to be distributed. In connection with the whole discussion on the liberalisation of the labour market – as my colleague in the Committee on Transport mentioned earlier, this is about the liberalisation of the industries – I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, since we joined the European Union, it is disastrous in almost all areas of the Committee on Transport and Tourism in terms of the working environment. In fact, I would like to draw the attention of the Social Democrats here to the fact that it was quite a strong right-wing lobbyism, one can read about, which wanted Sweden to join the European Union to push the Social Democrats to the right. I'd like everyone to think and ask themselves what happened. Did we do it? Has politics been pushed to the right? What does it really look like – how far have the deterioration in the labour market gone? Is that something we can accept? I am referring to this because I think it is an important issue to consider systemically. We now look at so many areas of working conditions that are totally substandard and miles from what Sweden has stood for – what Social Democrats have fought for and the Left Party has often preceded various proposals, including in the Riksdag, earlier. The Social Democrats have been standing there. But what do we see now? It's falling! It's not okay. I think we should take a deeper look at this whole problem and think about how we can tackle it. It is not only possible to polish the edges, but there have been quite large changes in the labour market that are not quite easy to deal with. I will not go into taxi matters very much, but it is also a very large area that is liberalised. I think there needs to be a follow-up rather soon of the new efforts we have made in the area of taxis. In fact, when we talk to drivers, we can see that the work situation in the taxi industry is still completely poor. The Left would like to see much stronger instruments in place to have, as in many other countries, clearer control of how many cars you have. As things stand today, with liberalisation, we are seeing cars propped up in the big cities. This means that wages and working conditions are dumped. At the same time, we have hardly any taxis in sparsely populated areas, not even for transportation and school shooting. We need to look at this much more. It does not come up so concretely in this report that we are going to discuss it more here, but it is an issue we are going to carry with us. With this, I would like to endorse our reservation No 2.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-650	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the post, Emma Wallrup! I thought I could have some clarifications, given that you are part of the government base. However, it is you who, together with the government, are making decisions on how to finance various things and solve the problems that exist. You said it's about somehow benefiting the hauliers who are still doing well, that they should be better off. Therefore, my first question must be: How much better has Swedish haulage industry received it from your support to the government in terms of competitiveness? You have put 50 cents on diesel for the very Swedish hauliers who drive around with perhaps the most environmentally friendly cars in Europe, which competes with 30 000 crowns a year. Has it benefited those who behave here in Sweden to give them higher taxes? My second question is how much better it will be with a road wear charge for companies here in Sweden. Why should they stay with their business here when truck transport will be 4 billion more expensive a year? Is it to benefit Swedish haulage industry and Swedish companies? The third question I would like to ask is how you and the Left Party stand in favour of the investigation finding that the police should carry out alco-tests at our border stations instead of setting up alco-boms. Do you share the opinion of the investigator? Our Minister, too, has said in certain circumstances that this could be a possible way forward.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-654	Mr President, I would like to During your time you certainly did not have much time, Sten Bergheden. Most of what has come to help the Swedish haulage companies is what has happened during this term of office. We have to bring that with us. What has happened is, among other things, the possibility of clapping and stronger penalties, which precisely controls those who do not behave better and thus benefits the Swedish haulage companies. Just as I said before, road wear charge is a very good opportunity to further check that we have trucks driving according to the rules because they have GPS and thus you get an increased control. It's something that would help. There are problems with your competitiveness inquiry that you want to add. Are you thinking that we are approaching Bulgaria's levels or the declines we see that are due to the fact that they have very difficult to survive, get jobs and so on, and therefore take jobs to terrible conditions, which we have not had to do in Sweden so far? What do you expect a competitiveness inquiry to come up with? I rather believe that, as many hauliers are asking, we should check those who are not doing better with a police operation such as the one they have worked with in Denmark, which has proved very effective and with road wear charges. We have GPS and can get better control over the cars with clapping and penalties. In this way we steer up so that we can protect the Swedish riders. I'd like to get back to the alcoboms. There I feel that I want some more background information before I can take a position on such an investigation.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-659	Mr President, I would like to I can start by correcting Emma Wallrup a little, considering who did what. The investigation was completed in May 2014. It has done nothing more than deliver it to Parliament for a decision. That is what was achieved. However, the government has added a lot of new investigations that we have ordered that will not be delivered to the Riksdag for decisions in the foreseeable future. It's serious. As far as the second part is concerned, I did not receive an answer with regard to the diesel tax. Has it strengthened Swedish haulage industry, if you now want to do so in the government, that we tax each truck with about SEK 30 000 more per year in diesel tax increases when we are already in Europe's highest layer of diesel taxes? Does it really strengthen Swedish haulage industry and benefit it? I would like to have a comment on how you are working on this issue in the government paper. I, too, welcome the fact that the police are being looked at. I think that's good. I assume that you will ask the government to look further at a traffic police force that works in Sweden. Today it has been dismantled with your good memory. There is every opportunity for improvement potential by going in and giving a clearer mission and making an effort on the traffic police so that we can comply with the requirements we have set ourselves. When it comes to a competitiveness inquiry, it would have been good if Emma Wallrup had read through our announcement. It's about us wanting to investigate what's different. In the next step, of course, we will discuss what we can improve. Do we need to reduce diesel taxes and reduce employers' contributions in order for Swedish haulage to be able to compete? If you had read our reservation, you might have supported it.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-663	Mr President, I would like to I've read your reservation. It's a little troubling if you want to lower the level in the wrong way. I'm a little worried that you're going to land on such decisions. We'll see what your investigation leads to. The measures did not come into place during your period, but you also had such proposals that have now come into place in parts. It is a good thing that all parties today realise that post-EU liberalisation has gone too far and that it does not work. It is very laudable the more people realise that we can push in a healthier direction for our workers, and so on. Nobody's okay with this. What you did, however, investigate during your reign that I am not so in favour of was the Dutch model. You investigated it and then said it would not be introduced. I think that's very sin. It has turned out that better wages and better working conditions have been achieved in Holland. It's a functional model. As far as the diesel tax is concerned, I was at the annual conference for HCT, heavy transport, and I sat on the panel there. I spoke to many riders who called for investments in HVO, because that is the future. They longed for policy instruments to support alternative non-fossil fuels. Efforts are needed to achieve this. Most people who invest in new technology go over to it. The diesel tax may be a minor problem. Rather, it is a bigger problem that there is not enough effort for renewables, as we would need to see.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-668	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved, except as regards the committee's position under paragraphs 1 and 7, which deal with the review of the conditions in the haulage industry and the requirement for tariff metres. Instead, we have reservations from the Liberals along with the other alliance parties. I am only in favour of reservation No 1 but I am also in favour of the other. The starting point of the liberals with regard to today's topic of professional traffic and taxis is not very unique. It is clear that we support that it should always pay to comply with the regulations even in professional transport. That's no exception. That also applies to the opposite. There must be a great risk of being discovered. If you are discovered with cheating and do not comply with the rules, you should be able to get severe sanctions. What has been mentioned earlier here today is, of course, worrying. We have weaknesses in control, and traffic police resources are not sufficient. In other words, we need clear and verifiable rules. That is the basis for us to be able to have fair competition on equal terms. That is really what we are all talking about. This always means competing for the same product. It is like in many other areas where Sweden competes with added value. It is not always just about price, it is also very much about quality. It is there that Swedish haulage companies today manage to compete in a pretty good way. When we talk about professional transport in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, it is old tradition that we are talking by definition about road transport. Professional traffic is so much more. I think it was Göran Lindell who previously pointed out that we must maintain the cross-transport modes of thinking all the time. It is about making optimum use of each mode of transport. That discussion must be put aside and taken in a different context. Mr President, I would like to In addition to having a level playing field and a healthy competitive environment, environmental aspects are central to this. It is about the development of alternative fuels. We now have examples of a large involvement of biodiesel in ordinary diesel. Experiments and pilot projects are under way to develop electric power. There are also things going on in the industry with different driving methods and how to handle cars. Large environmental benefits are achieved through reduced fuel consumption. There is another part in which, unfortunately, we can see that things have gone a little bit. Maybe we can find out later. It seems quite obvious that this with longer and heavier trucks is something that the government is struggling with. I understand that the Social Democrats think it's a pretty good idea, but that the Green Party thinks it's a pretty bad idea. That is something the government has to deal with. In any case, we can have both heavier and longer trucks in Sweden. We have a competitive advantage, but we also have an environmental advantage. Not least has the old project – as we may well say these days – A travest to prove. There they had 20 percent less fuel consumption for the same amount of transport. There are also such aspects in this. I know you can have other discussions. But it is still a question of cross-border thinking and making optimum use of each mode of transport. It is a very positive initiative that has been taken by the industry itself with Fair Transport. There was someone else talking about Fairtrade here before. It is a way of showing that we stand for climate-smart and safe driving with good working conditions. If you are to be able to demand customer responsibility in the right way, you still have to be able to present the product in that way. I believe, after all, that there will be a reversal and that this will be a competitive advantage, because in various sectors it will be possible to highlight that our transport is carried out in a climate-smart and good way. Mr President, I would like to Surely we can state that there are still problems in today's commercial traffic that need to be resolved. In the past, Sten Bergheden gave a good review of what has happened in recent years, and we from the Liberals think it is a good thing that in October the Transport Agency was asked to follow up the reforms that have been carried out and to look at new things in the area of the European Union, in particular, that could possibly be changed. It is really only an initiative that was taken during the time of the alliance government. The latest was the bill put forward by the alliance government in September 2014, before the change of power, about the squabbling. That's where I get the right Sten Bergheden. It was not delivered by the new government, but was already delivered and signed by Catharina Elmsäter-Elmsäter-Svärd, who was then Minister of Infrastructure. Now the Liberals and the rest of the Alliance want to move forward and take a holistic approach to the competitive situation. In other sectors, so-called competitiveness investigations have been carried out, and we think it is very important to see the whole picture in this. Now there are a lot of investigations that have been reported but unfortunately also ended up a bit in the long bench. We need to look at the whole picture and see what it is we should highlight with Swedish haulage industry, what it is we should compete with and what we have for competitive advantages and added value and focus on this. That's what reservation one is about. The conclusion is that a large number of measures were taken during the time of the alliance government. The fact that we are now evaluating these is good, but we also need to go further and look at the competitive situation of Swedish haulage industry in an overall perspective. This is actually the message of the Alliance and Liberals in this report. I refrain from saying anything about taxis, because what needs to be said is what has already been said. I can conclude by saying that I am a little concerned about the development of alcoboms, because I thought we were very much in agreement that this is an extremely effective way of preventing drunk driving. Getting caught in an alcocontrol in a port was something that happened the first few days when you had set it up. Then, in principle, everyone knew it, so it was extremely effective from a preventive point of view. I would therefore strongly urge the government to move forward and put this in place, because it is probably the most cost-effective security project that has been in place for a very long time.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-684	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' view of transport policy has several starting points: developing prosperity, taking environmental considerations and facilitating travel, etc. For a sparsely populated country such as Sweden, with long distances, transport is particularly important for passenger and freight traffic. Good communications are essential if we are to develop prosperity, increase employment and growth and, not least, strengthen competitiveness. The industry is important for economic growth in the country. It creates jobs and contributes to social development. The Christian Democrats want to make it easier for companies and operators in the transport sector and improve the competitive environment in the sector. Mr President, I would like to More needs to be done to prosecute fraud in both the haulage industry and the taxi industry. Swedish haulage industry is currently exposed to fierce international competition and rogue operators competing out serious haulage companies. While Swedish truck drivers have to pay thousands of Swedish kronor in case of violation of driving and rest times, some foreign road hauliers drive longer than is permitted by EU rules and interpret the rules differently. The Danish model should be authorised in Sweden as soon as possible. This makes it possible with smaller deviations of driving and rest times even for the Swedish skiers. Mr President, I would like to The right to cabotage is abused by some foreign carriers carrying out an international transport operation. They have the right to carry out up to three domestic transport operations in a country other than the Member State of establishment within a seven-day period following the completion of the international transport operation. Some riders, however, ignore the rules and drive many more transports. The Swedish Parliament has last year imposed a fine of SEK 40 000 instead of a fine in the event of infringement of the cabotage rules. It has also been introduced and allows a vehicle to be detained for 24 hours in order to have the penalty fee paid or to correct deficiencies in the vehicle. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to make it possible to detain the vehicle for more than 24 hours so that the penalty fee is paid, in order to promote fair competition between operators in the field of road transport so that they can work on equal terms. Last year, matters reported by the police to the Swedish Transport Agency concerning unauthorised domestic transport amounted to 72. Of these, 60 had paid advances. With a squeezing longer than 24 hours, more people will have to pay the penalty fee and comply with the rules. Mr President, I would like to The risk of being controlled is low today, as the police and customs staff are understaffed. This leads rogue operators who do not comply with cabotage rules to compete seriously. It is important for the police and customs to have more resources and the opportunity to ensure that the laws and regulations applicable to both Swedish and foreign haulage companies in Sweden are complied with. The Christian Democrats are serious about the fraud in the haulage industry, and it must be taken very seriously to prevent serious operators from being knocked out of the market. The alliance parties are concerned about this development and believe that a broad investigation is needed to strengthen the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. Mr President, I would like to Since the liberalisation of the taxi market in 1990, more players have been added and competition has developed. More jobs have been created in the taxi industry, and this has also led to a wider range of taxi companies. This is basically a good development that should be welcomed. In order to counter the problems that have been seen in the taxi industry, there are some proposals for changes, and some investigations are now under way in order to improve the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to conduct tax control of taxi operations and prevent unhealthy competition by rogue hauliers. New rules were also introduced last year. One example is the requirement for taxi drivers to submit a binding price information to the customer before a journey starts if the price exceeds SEK 500 so that the customer is not deceived and surprised by a final price of several thousand SEK for the trip. Mr President, I would like to In order to combat fraud in the industry, rules are needed that can help to counter the problems that we have seen in the industry. However, in order to ensure that the new rules are not ineffective, the Christian Democrats believe that there is a need for more information on current rules and increased supervision. Mr President, I would like to I support the joint reservation No 1 by the Christian Democrats and the Alliance.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-697	Mr President, I would like to I would like to broaden the discussion on competitive conditions in the freight sector by having the horizon a little higher. We are talking about commercial traffic, and the efficient transport of goods is about road, rail and shipping. In the government agreement, we are based on what is stated in the EU White Paper on the transfer of long-distance road transport to rail and maritime transport. And why do we want that? Well, it is because the government has a high ambition to get rid of oil dependence and become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. 78 per cent of Sweden's oil imports go to the transport sector. Energy optimisation is therefore needed both in road transport and in other sectors. Then it is important to look at the friction. I have mentioned it before, but it is important to understand why a transport at all draws a lot of energy. Maritime transport has the greatest advantage here, as the friction between ship hull and water is very small if ships are driven at normal speed. The waterway is also very cheap in both construction and maintenance. The railway has great advantages. It is very energy efficient compared to long-distance truck transport with friction between rubber wheels and asphalt. Of course, all of us who are the least aware of how it works know that all modes of transport are needed. It is only a matter of distributing them properly and having a level playing field so that the truck can fulfil its potential and the railways and shipping its own. It is against this background that the government has set up an investigation into wear and tear taxes for truck transport. There are track charges, fairway charges and port charges. Now it is also important to ensure that there is a level playing field for truck transport in relation to the others. We want a sustainable construction of society. It is part of the Swedish model. Then you have to have fair rules for employees and companies. Therefore, the government has been proactive in order and fair competitive conditions for the road. We are also very positive about the industry's initiative to Fair Transport and the strengthened demands for procurement responsibilities that the Transport Workers' Association, among others, has made and which we have discussed with them at a committee meeting. However, the lack of records of lorry transport in Sweden is an obstacle for the Swedish Transport Agency and the police to monitor and enforce the rules for cabotage and other road rules. This is one of the reasons why Germany and several countries have introduced road-wear taxes, or Maut, as it is called in Germany, because it will then have a register of control over all companies. If the Alliance, with its demands for a level playing field, were credible, they would adhere to this requirement, for then all truck transports would have to pay the same regardless of where the registration plate belongs. It may be enough for companies to take better responsibility for the employees and pay more for them without having to be out-competed by companies that might think cheaper diesel and not pay for the wear and tear of the road that they cause. Swedish hauliers pay for it in other countries. Then there is no reason that we should not have better rules of play in Sweden. If there are problems with unfair competition and sometimes unreasonable working conditions in the haulage industry, the situation in taxis is even worse. There is now a discussion about demanding a little more understanding and understanding of what car sharing means. Of course, we are very much in favour of this because many private cars are only used to a small extent and we have problems with space in the cities and too much climate impact. If you can split the car then that's an advantage. But if it is professional traffic, if it is a driver who drives for compensation, it would be obvious that you should pay taxes and employers' contributions. The phenomenon Uberpop is quite effective in trying to evade these rules, regardless of the country in which they occur. It has gone quite well for them, and it would probably also do for ordinary taxi companies if they were to avoid taxes, employers' contributions and collective agreements. To ensure that there are good conditions in taxis and that the taxi industry is able to survive and have fair competition, the government has set up two investigations to see, on the one hand, how we can facilitate and promote car sharing that does not include having employed drivers and, on the other hand, to ensure that the taxi industry we need for, among other things, travel services and much more gets sensible working conditions. I am absolutely convinced that we can come back with proposals when these investigations are completed. The Swedish model also means that it should be safe and secure. I think a lot of people associate it with that. We are famous in the rest of the world for our zero vision and that compared to other countries we have relatively few deaths in traffic. And sobriety along the way is completely strategic for this to be a goal. I am rather disappointed, as previous alco-lock investigators, that the Alliance Government did not take one of the proposals I made in an investigation just before the 2006 elections. I am in favour of at least trying to do something about what is happening in our ports and look forward to the cooperation government using the available investigative material to come up with proposals on how to make alco-boms in all ports a compulsory activity. In Skåne we have negative experiences of the case where a single drunk truck driver could almost destroy a family. Many of us remember this and want to do most of it so that it cannot be repeated. I have read with great interest all the reservations of the Alliance. After all, an opposition's task is to deliver constructive alternatives to the government's proposals. But I have to admit that I was a little disappointed when I read the reservations, because where are the alternatives? Yes, you may want something to be investigated more or one of the investigations that the government has set up to work faster. Well! How do you want to get to what is actually perhaps the biggest issue in this debate, namely the fraud in taxis? I read in the reservation that you want more information and more supervision. I think you'll have to make a little more effort. I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-710	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Karin Smith, as I also indicated in my speech, that we should actually widen the horizon a little. Traditionally, when we talk about commercial traffic, it's about road traffic. What Karin Svensson Smith talks about energy consumption are truths that we all agree with. Island migration from road to rail and shipping is of course of value. It's energy optimization. However, I also referred to the optimisation of transport modes. In this context, I raised the issue of heavier and longer lorries. I don't know if Karin Svensson Smith didn't want to talk about it and didn't think it was so interesting. However, I wonder how this question goes forward, because it is not entirely unknown that there is a contradiction between the government parties on this particular issue and how it is now being dealt with by the Green Party. As I said, there are competition arguments for having taller and heavier trucks. There are also environmental arguments. There is no contradiction when it comes to shifting between modes of transport. So my question concerns this.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-713	Mr President, I would like to I used all the time allocated to the speech, and then I did not have time to touch on all the details. But I'd be happy to answer Lars Tysklind's question. I have carefully studied both the study of fossil freedom on the road and the climate scenario developed by Trafikverket. The greatest potential for reducing energy consumption in the freight transport sector is the transfer of long-distance truck transport to rail and maritime transport. That's where the potential is greatest. That is also why the EU White Paper highlights this as crucial if the EU as a whole is to meet the objectives of reducing oil dependence. In addition, I agree with Lars Tysklind that there is an energy saving potential in each transport sector. I don't know how much you can save with longer trains. I don't think it's that much. However, in both shipping and road transport, there are good opportunities to use less energy on the one hand and to move towards renewable energy on the other. Of the things that Lars Tysklind spoke about in his speech, I think that HVO is the thing that we should primarily take up in the transport sector if we are to get closer to the goal of reducing fossil dependence. Today it is difficult for those road hauliers who want to reduce oil use in the transport industry. Unfortunately, no government has so far managed to find a good grip for them to be able to carry out their necessary transport with a smaller oil content in the tank. For longer journeys, a preparation is ongoing within the Government Office. The intention is to return to Parliament later this year.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-718	Mr President, I would like to Then we look forward to the government returning with the question to the Riksdag. Let's see what's in it. Karin Svensson Smith mentioned that she is a little disappointed, as I understood, with the reservations that exist. It sounded like they weren't an option. I think we should see reservation 1 on a competitiveness inquiry also for this industry as something good. There are many investigations going on, and there have been many investigations. But it is precisely a matter of taking a holistic approach. This has been done in other sectors, not least in agriculture. There's such an investigation done. All the proposals made in such an investigation may not be directly adopted, but the balance between the various points of attack is struck. We believe from the Liberals and from the rest of the Alliance that this would be a good thing. We have done a lot of things, and the Swedish Transport Agency is now following up on what has been done to see if it was good and if it has the right effect. One must always be prepared that even if one thinks that the measure is good when it is introduced, it is not by definition that it will have the effect that one thinks it will, even if the will has been good. I therefore think it is a good thing that the follow-up is being carried out. It is time to take a holistic approach to the haulage industry to see what is really the Swedish strengths and weaknesses in the system. What are the difficulties in competing for Swedish haulage industry? It's basically about price. Quality I think the Swedish haulage industry stands for; that is not the concern. It is about being able to highlight the Swedish added value in the system, and then such an investigation could be of great value.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-723	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of follow-up. I rarely say no to that requirement in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. The follow-up that has been made on the competitive conditions of the shipping industry, I think, brought the debate a lot new. In order to get a better idea of the situation of the haulage industry, I asked the Southern Department of the Åkeri Association to convene all the actors at a meeting in Malmö to find out what they want, what they are concerned about and what they are calling for from the government. Then I heard from both the prosecutor and the police and the haulage industry itself that it is a matter of a register to have better control. Today, many are getting away with it because we have a bad grip on which truck transport is being carried out. All the other demands that have been highlighted, I see that the government has either taken the initiative or intends to take the initiative. So I did not really find that there was anything new. What was particularly highlighted, and which I hope we could come back to, is greater customer responsibility. Many companies are keen on their reputation and to appear environmentally friendly and so on in advertising and advertising. But when ordering transport, it is usually a matter of ordering at the lowest price. You rarely look at whether the procurement requirements are complied with. There I think we have a great potential to improve. We only get fair rules when it is the same conditions for all transport on the roads. That's why I'm looking forward to a wear and tear tax that everyone pays no matter where the license plate belongs.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-728	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the questions I have in view of this. Why does the government say no to the competitiveness inquiry? Is it not reasonable that we look through all the advantages and disadvantages of Swedish haulage industry in relation to the competing foreign haulage industry? Then we can sit down and discuss what can be done to strengthen the Swedish haulage industry. Why do you say no to an investigation? It has started just as many investigations as possible and at the same time moved them forward in time because they do not have time to finish, but you cannot tackle the perhaps absolutely most important issue – a competitiveness inquiry that the haulage industry is asking for. Mr President, I would like to Why, then, are we critical of the various investigations? Because they take so long. First, we wait a year to set up the investigations that we already knew were necessary and about which the Parliament has made announcements. When the investigations will then deliver their proposal on 15 March, the time will be moved further to 1 May 2017. That's a long time. We have already investigated the customer responsibility once before. It cannot be so difficult to study what Finland has done to introduce this. Karin Svensson Smith himself requests the responsibility for ordering. What's taking the government so long to get this done? Why can't you do what you've done in Finland and do it a little faster than having another year and a half before you're there? It's the serious bits. Karin Svensson Smith says we have to deal with the taxi industry. We have an investigation into the nicest conditions for the taxi industry that you were supposed to deliver on July 1st. You have also moved to December 1st. What's taking the government so long?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-732	Mr President, I would like to I think I find a certain cleavage in the argument of the Alliance. In several of your opening speeches, you accuse the government of setting up investigations instead of proposing measures. You really have to think about that. Are you right about that? But in this line, you'd rather set up an investigation. I have to say that I think that Anna Johansson's proposal, which has been delivered so far, is better than a further investigation. The things that remain with regard to ordering responsibility, which the Swedish Transport Agency is reviewing, are about the EU regulatory framework, which is not quite transparent and easy to understand. We must be able to comply with those rules too in order not to get back on a new regulatory system. The Green Party may not be very active on this particular issue, but it is because we feel quite confident that the Social Democrats are the main exponent of the Swedish model when it comes to decent working conditions. We trust that they will put forward good proposals that we can support, and so far they have done so in this sector.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-735	Mr President, I would like to I think that the commission on ordering responsibility b orde has been completed on 15 March. We have said that we agree on this and should introduce it. The Green Party often brings up this new one with mileage tax. Are you prepared, as Germany has done, to reduce diesel taxes in order to impose a road user charge instead? They have about SEK 2 lower diesel tax than we have here in Sweden. So you're prepared to switch over to that? And if so, are you prepared to tear up the indexation you have counted on the diesel and petrol tax to benefit the haulage industry so that it receives lower diesel tax in Sweden and instead receives a road wear charge? Another question is whether you are behind the alcoboms. Are you, in that case, on behalf of the Green Party, behind the investigation or the Minister's statement that bars need to be set up? Ygeman said earlier that it is important to get the alco-bommers up, and Anna Johansson has said that there is one thing the police can do in the ports. The investigation says it's the police who should do it in the ports. What is the opinion of the Green Party in this, and why is it taking so long? Now Finland is here looking at our alcoboms. We have investigated this and finished it, and it has been shown how to solve it, but then you have put it in some desk drawer. It must be pretty full in the drawers at the Government Office. Maybe one of these things could be decided now. Alkobommer we agree on here in Parliament. It is up to you in the government to carry this out. When are you going to deliver the alcoboms out to our ports?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-740	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to what we are going to do with the investigation proposal on wear and tear charges, it is a bit difficult to know before the investigation proposal is finished. The intention itself is crystal clear. All modes of transport shall pay for the costs they incur in use, whether maritime, rail or road. It's supposed to be a level playing field. How to adjust it then with regard to fuel tax and road tax, we will have to come back to, but it is called wear and tear tax because it is about the wear and tear of the road and that the tax should correspond to it. With regard to alcoboms, I have a great personal commitment to the issue of sobriety along the way. I think that the investigation that has been presented has several shortcomings. Instead of investigating more, you should say: It is not okay to drive out on the road and have alcohol in your blood. I think you should check every one of them that runs off the ferries. That is my personal opinion. I feel a positive expectation that the government will deliver quite soon on this issue.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-743	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with a motion report dealing with commercial traffic and taxis. It is very important questions that have a great impact on how Sweden will develop and be perceived by our surrounding world. It is of great importance to the European Union how we in Sverig e deal with these issues. Even unionens r egelverk has meaning for us. In some cases, we Social Democrats believe that Sweden must work for the rules to be changed and improved. This applies in particular to the rules governing cabotage to the benefit of workers and businesses. This is important in order to defend the Swedish model that we stand for and that so many others claim to uphold. Let me first talk a little about the conditions that workers face in the haulage industry. It is not uncommon for drivers to be paid very little for the worker they perform, under the wage conditions stipulated in Swedish collective agreements. It is drivers who, in order to get a job, are forced to have false F-tax notes and who are hired out by agency to haulage companies that do not have the slightest will to compete on equal terms with companies that pay contractual wages, taxes and contributions. Oft a, the drivers also come from countries with a very low wage level, so they are easy to take advantage of. They are forced to sit in a parking lot somewhere in Sweden to wait for cargo. They don't get paid for the fuel the cars are pulling until they're back home. They cook at a gas stove behind their car to get any food at all. In such an environment, it is easy to understand that crime and alcohol abuse are rampant. Diesel thefts involving these drivers are not unusual. People are being abused improperly. Mr President, I would like to We can't have that in Sweden. Our Swedish model, how we organize and give employees decent conditions, is eliminated by unscrupulous skiers. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to some initiatives that show that another way is possible. Fair Transport, as many have talked about here, is Sweden's Åkeri company's answer to the problem. They themselves have taken in itatives for the nicest conditions in the industry. Fair Transport Europe is another initiative taken by the Swedish Transport Workers' Association with several trade unions. It wants the European Union to act. It is about collecting enough names for the Commission to have to act. The third example I would like to mention is an individual company, the Elgigant. They have decided that their transport will be on fair terms. No rogue transport companies will bother to try to transport their goods. This is also how companies that want the right conditions can act. The only thing about these initiatives is that they point in the same direction, namely that a transport must have a client in order to be carried out. If everyone does as the Elgigant does, no one will ask for these very dubious transports. However, I do not think we can hope that this will happen, but we must help the transport buyers along the way with a tightening up of customer responsibility. If you order a transport – company or freight forwarder or both in a nice association for that matter – you must be responsible for the transport they have ordered within the raw brands of the law. It should apply to the whole chain and not just to the first step that many in this industry are talking about. It's got to be the whole chain. The lowest price alone is not a criterion. This must be the main rule in Sweden. I know that the government is currently working on these issues and has commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to investigate this. It is true that we have now had a little longer time, but that means that the investigation, like the one we carried out on the clogging of lorries, does not have to be repeated. The fact that this was the case was because the evidence from the old government was insufficient. Now we are giving a proper basis so that we can go to legislation with this and ensure that we get a customer responsibility worth the name. With this, I would like to send a signal to the Trans Ports Board's investigators on how we view the issue. Without the client, there will be no tran sport. With fair conditions for the eyes, it will be good conditions for drivers. With good orders, there will be competition on equal terms. I think that chain is important to maintain. Mr President, I would like to When you discuss the conditions of the haulage industry, you quickly get into cabotage and illegal traffic. First of all, it is important to bear in mind that these are common rules for the whole of Europe. But they are easy to circumvent, and they are being circumvented throughout Europe. It is not just us in Sweden who have problems with cabotage rules. This tells me that we must work hard to bring about change throughout the Union. The Swedish Government, together with those who want a change, must press on and act so that illegal activities are prevented or, in any case, greatly impeded. But we can also do a great deal within the current regulatory framework, and much has been done in our country by the current government. Sanctions and squeezing are two examples. But here we now need to evaluate to see what happens. Is $40,000 a fine enough for all offences? In some cases, financial crime in the form of MC clubs has undertaken to pay the penalty fee. In previous debates, we warned the previous government that organised crime was entering the haulage industry. But it was said that there was no problem and was nothing to worry about. Isn't that exactly what we are now seeing happening? I ask myself. It is not enough for everyone today to know that squeezing for a maximum of 24 hours, as proposed by the previous government. We all agree on that. But how to move forward is not as clear. We do not really know whether it is in line with the common regulatory framework in the European Union. It must, of course, be investigated before we come forward with another proposal which means that we have to change back, just as the proposal for squeezing under the previous government. We can't have that. Proposals must be put forward which can be trusted that they can be implemented. I believe that a truck should be trampled until it has paid its fine or, if it is a road-hazardous car, until the faults are rectified and the car is no longer road-hazardous. These measures could have been taken years ago if we had not previously had a government that felt that we should let everything go freely. The market was supposed to solve everything, it was the last government's signal to Brussels. There was a line taken by former Commissioner Kallas. We would let everything go, and then it would work itself out. But that's not the case. What is illegal should remain illegal. You can't let everything go, and you can't think that everything's suddenly gonna be okay. Swedish haulage industry would have had much better conditions if only the previous government had listened to all the announcements received during the last four years. We also need to get an order so that cabotage and combined transport cannot be combined in such a way that the cars are actually stationed in Sweden, i.e. they are stationed here and driving under the conditions I talked about earlier. One solution could be that a lorry that has carried out a cabotage or combined transport to Sweden must return to its country of origin before it can take another transport. I know that the government is now looking at this as an opportunity, and it has been proposed to the European Union as well. It is a proposal that is being pursued today. I do not know if that is possible, but we need to look much more closely at whether such a measure could remedy some of the illegal traffic. There is also a need to be vigilant about the trade in registration plates that is taking place today. It is very extensive. You can no longer be sure that the registration plate and the vehicle belong together. But in this case too, I will come back to the customer responsibility. If no one ordered these shipments, they would not be carried out. The conditions of cabotage transport today and false registration plates would not be a problem if there were no customer. Then they would never be implemented. Mr President, I would like to Just a few words about driving and resting times. Here the Swedish Transport Agency has signalled that it should review its application of the regulations. That was said in committee and has been said in other contexts. It's basically good. We should not have unnecessarily rigid rules in Sweden compared to our surrounding world. However, I would like to warn against the fact that it is easy to allow a certain breach of driving and rest times to become part of the planning conditions for those planning the operation. That is not good, but that is what has happened in Denmark. That's where you start planning the little cover, and we can't have it. I would just like to say this in this debate so that it is clear that we Social Democrats are not prepared to twirl on the terms of the drivers. There is a reason why there are driving and resting times, and that is why we are careful. Then we know that there are clever devices that are installed in trucks and that make the tachograph cards look quite correct with taken breaks, daily rest periods and more. At the same time, the rules that apply have not been followed at all. I learned of some recent cases where the police finally discovered that things were not right and could intervene. But I think many more are using this tool. It's illegal. It's to be prosecuted. We cannot have such conditions. Mr President, I would like to Finally, a few words about taxis. Right now there's a taxi investigation that I and many people with me are hoping for a lot. A clear definition of what is taxi and what is otherwise we expect from the investigation. A clear statement that the taximeter should be in each taxi car and that the taxi meter should be emptied via a emptying centre is other information we expect. Then there was another announcement to the previous government during the last period. We have discussed this many times in this House over the last six years. That's as far as I can see. I'm sure the issues have been discussed longer than that. In this context, I would like to state that illegal taxi services are all taxi journeys that take place when there are no taximeters or when payments are made for the service rendered. It's illegal. In other words, all of this with carpooling via Facebook and other social media is illegal traffic and should be prosecuted and punished. Recently, a large number of drivers for the company Uber were convicted of illegal traffic. We heard earlier in this House today a KD Member who, in another debate, expressed his scepticism against Uber. For me, it is obvious that there would be a verdict, but it is appealed so we will see what happens. Should it turn out that the company is being freed in higher courts, I think we need to review the law. Illegal traffic must be illegal traffic. Who knows, perhaps there will also be proposals in this direction from the taxi investigation. If so, it would be welcome. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-768	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a long speech that did not really contain anything more than that it seems to be a tired government that is investigating things that are probably not going to be decided on during this term of office. The investigation proposals have now been moved to 1 May 2017. Since then, it is time for a referral and the Government will write a proposal that the Riksdag will decide on. It is clear that this government will not be able to deliver any new proposal from what is currently being investigated. Just to further show how long it takes, the investigation into the taxi industry has also been moved forward. The conference on the accounting centres – which we agree should be introduced – has also been moved forward. This government is good at moving things in front of it and setting up investigations that will never be finished. Mr President, I would like to We've been working for a long time, you and me, Leif Pettersson, with the haulage industry. Now you represent a government that has reduced the competitiveness of Swedish haulage industry by increasing diesel tax by 50 cents. In addition, it proposes an increase in annual indexation and an increase in employers' contributions. How will increased taxes for Swedish haulage industry strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish haulage industry vis-à-vis lorries from countries where taxes are significantly lower? When are we going to have the alcoboms up in our ports? I have put that question to previous speakers and I would also like the answers of the Social Democrats. When will a truck tax be in place?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-773	Mr President, I would like to We already have truck taxes, so that's all right, if that's what Sten Bergheden meant. No, it was, of course, road wear charges he meant. I don't know, Sten Bergheden. The study will probably present its proposal in 2018. Then we know what's going on. We will hopefully be able to take a decision on this before the end of the term of office. When it comes to alco-bommers, I think you've confused the case we're dealing with. This is in TU13, but now it's TU10 we're talking about. So I'm not going to talk to you about Alcoboms right now. I'll have someone else do that. But we can take that debate when that issue is going up on the table. It's not here. And then it's interesting that you're evil about all the investigations that are being done and that you're moving everything forward. It's almost a stolle test you're doing. In the last parliamentary term – and even during the pre-selection period, I imagine – your answer to everything we demanded was that it should come and that you had an investigation in progress. It was about taximeters, about customer responsibility, about everything. There's an investigation into it, and it's coming later, you said. But then nothing came. Well, wrong of me! Something came just before the election. At that time, a very poorly thought-out proposal was put forward on the matter of squabbling and fines. You may remember, Sten Bergheden, that it was originally said that it would only be 20 000 in penalty fees. But that had to be changed along the way, so to speak. Flying on the road changed it to 40,000. Then what is your demand? Another investigation? Will it be much better then? I'll come back to this in my next line.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-778	Mr President, I would like to In our reservation we clearly state that we think that we should speed up the investigations that are under way and that they should be completed much earlier than what has now been stated in the time frame. That is our first demand. The second requirement is that we set up a competitiveness study that looks at the profitability of Swedish haulage industry and compares the costs in Swedish haulage industry with those in Germany, Denmark, Finland and other countries in Europe to then be able to look at what we need to review in order to strengthen Swedish haulage industry in its competitiveness. Why are the Social Democrats so afraid of setting up such a competitiveness inquiry? After all, such an investigation was set up in the agricultural industry to look at what is different. Then the policy will have to come back with proposals for improvements. I must also say a few words about the 24-hour crackdown. This was very easy to implement immediately before the elections. We were supposed to go for real. But listen and be amazed! An investigation has now been set up, and a proposal is due to be submitted until 1 May 2017. Then you should look at it further. What was very easy to do before the elections and should have been implemented already then this government cannot deliver in four years to the Riksdag. It is an extremely weak effort made by this government to solve the clamping issue, which was so simple before. Why is this not put on the table immediately? We'll agree on 24 hours. Bring it to Parliament, and we can make a decision about it immediately! Instead, you have postponed that investigation in front of you, as well as the question of ordering responsibility. It is also very easy to compare there. Look at what Finland has done! Compare with them and do the same in Sweden!
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-782	Mr President, I would like to If Sten Bergheden had bothered to read the report that we are currently discussing, he would have been able to read the following on p. 9; the Swedish Transport Agency's mandate includes market surveillance for all modes of transport with the aim of creating a well-functioning market with competition on equal terms. As part of the Swedish Transport Agency's market surveillance for the road freight market, in October 2015, the Agency presented a report with a special focus on the market's producer side, and so on. This means that the investigation you require is carried out continuously by the Swedish Transport Agency. You are out fighting in the air again with an investigation that is not needed, because this is already being done. During the last parliamentary term, we called for greater client responsibility to be implemented. The answer we received from the government at the time was that it was not necessary, that we had sufficient customer responsibility. That was Catharina Elmsäter-Svärd's response to us in the opposition then. We also got this black on white on a paper just before we went on summer leave 2014. I think the Moderates like it best in opposition. Now you can say: Everything you demanded before we want to do now, but much faster! It's good that you're in opposition. You will continue to be after 2018. Then perhaps you too will cheer up and have some healthy suggestions about what you want to do and not just pick out things that are already being done. Perhaps that would be part of strengthening the opposition work.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-786	Mr President, I would like to I was more positive to Karin Svensson Smith, who wanted to broaden the horizon. I think that Leif Pettersson has some attitude problems when we discuss alco-bommers and he says that it belongs to something else. Then almost the drainpipe has got a face, I was about to say. It is clear that this has to do with the issue of professional transport. I can welcome Leif Pettersson to reality, but humility is not in place. Surely we can agree that it was the former government, the alliance government, that imposed the sanctions and the clamping down, concentrated these cases on certain public prosecutors and so on. We don't have to struggle about it, but just go back and check it out. Now we are discussing moving on. Leif Pettersson felt that the Moderates should be in opposition, but it does not seem that Leif Pettersson has realised that he himself now represents a government party. With his description of reality and the demands he makes, this in some way becomes totally counterproductive. This thing about the market is pretty interesting anyway. I also mentioned this in my speech. Whatever you think of the market, it was good to highlight a concrete example like Elgiganten. There you can still see how well the market can function sometimes when the systems click in each other. The industry's own Fair Transport must of course be an extremely good tool in these contexts. Like any previous speaker, I believe that most entrepreneurs want a good reputation and that that market will grow.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-789	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not I who have divided matters and motions between various reports in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. In fact, however, we have the alcoboms in TU13, which will be adjusted here in a few days' time and then come up for debate in this House. I think that issues should be debated in their context. That is just what I want to say about the fact that alcoboms do not belong in this debate. We are not dealing with these movements right now, but they come in a different context. If then you in the Liberals don't think it's particularly meaningful to do that way, it'll have to stand for you. Karin Svensson Smith, Lars Tysklind and Göran Lindell have been involved in cross-border discussions. I think it is very important that we all take this into account in some way, because that is exactly what we need. We need trans-modal discussions in order for the whole of Sweden to grow in a good way. We are simply going to use the transports for what they are best for. We will ensure that we can use shipping to the extent that shipping can work. This, of course, presupposes that we build intermodal transport facilities using combined terminals and so on. This requires both rail and road access to the quay. Road is usually available, but railway is not available in all places. In this way we can have a transport system that works in the best possible way. In addition to this, the most important question is how to get the climate emissions from heavy traffic in order.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-792	Mr President, I would like to It feels good that social democrats, liberals and certainly most others agree on the cross-modal approach. Climate must be the focus. I mentioned in my speech that it is about moving energy-efficient modes of transport and energy efficiency within the modes of transport. That's where we're in complete agreement. I am thinking of another issue that seemed simple before the elections. It was about the discussion about the Holland model. I think it is only the Left Party that is sticking to this issue. I can ask Leif Pettersson a little control question. I understand that the current government with the Social Democrats has completely shrunk this issue and that the Minister for Infrastructure has made it clear that it is not applicable in Sweden and is therefore closed. Maybe we can get it confirmed. I got a message from Karin Svensson Smith that after all there would be a proposal for longer and heavier trucks. I thought it would be in the near future. I would like Leif Pettersson to comment on this, what the bill will mean and if you know what it will contain.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-796	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the last one. You haven't looked at any more vehicles. We may regret that it was not done at the same time. Maybe you'll have to come back with that. The heavier vehicles up to 74 tonnes are in progress. On a direct question from industry representatives, the Minister for Infrastructure has said that the issue should be addressed in the spring. It's as far as I know what's going to happen. There will be a proposal in the spring to deal with the issue of heavier vehicles. For the longer vehicles, A travest to, and some other vehicles driving today, the experimental activities will continue. That is as far as I can take stock of this today. It would have been good if the question could have been investigated at once, but it was not possible. That may well be regrettable. Then there was the issue of the Holland model. The Holland model is not at the forefront today, but other measures in the field of cabotage and fair competition on the roads. Representatives of Åkeriföretagen and Transport visited the committee and had a briefing. They were very much in agreement on the matter. What was also clear was the demand for equal competition. Cabott overshadowed everything else. Things have to be done in order.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-802	Mr President, I would like to Many who take taxis do so to get home quickly and safely. For example, it is not uncommon for taxis to be used by women to avoid unsafe roads home at night. The Swedish Democrats believe that the taxi industry is therefore an important safety-creating industry. Absolutely no one should have to be subjected to crimes in a taxi – this whether you are a man or a woman, in company or alone, sober or drunk. We therefore want to see a change in legislation and procedures for the Transport Agency and taxi companies to prevent serious crimes from being committed in connection with taxi travel. Mr President, I would like to In many cities there is a lack of housing, and municipalities are growing. It causes congestion in traffic. I was going to talk more about the city I know best in our elongated country, namely Gothenburg. Gothenburg is a wonderful city in many ways. I'm not going to talk about the disadvantages. The city is built to be a car-friendly city, and it has always been easy to drive with great possibilities to park and easily get to the city center. The city is built with two major thoroughfare routes, which means that there is sometimes a lot of traffic and queues with both Gothenburg and thoroughfare. The city's politicians are trying to change the Gothenburg people's travel habits, and they have, among other things, introduced congestion taxes – which I personally dislike strongly – as part of reducing car use and queues. The infrastructure changes by building more bus files, which reduces the accessibility of cars. The streets are narrowed, and people are trying to invest more in collective travel – which I think is positive. The buses can then keep their times. For taxis, which can be considered as part of public transport, it is allowed in some places to drive in the bus files, but unfortunately this does not apply everywhere. By allowing taxis to drive in public transport lanes, taxis become more attractive as accessibility becomes better and the time gain increases during rush hour traffic. Fortunately, I heard last Thursday at the City Council in Gothenburg that it is necessary to evaluate the possibilities for taxis to drive more in the collective lanes. I'll give you an example when I had to ride a taxi instead of collectively, which I prefer to do when I'm going to Stockholm by train. It was about 16 o'clock in rush hour traffic. Then it is queue-intensive in Gothenburg. I called a taxi because I knew it would be hard to get to the train. Public transport does not go the nearest route to Central Station. I got a cab fast and got in. The cab driver said he'd take another road because it was smocky in the Tingstad tunnel. I didn't think about it anymore. I put myself in the cab and went with him. The taxi driver took an alternative road and drove through the Götaälv bridge. That's it. That's it. I think the taxi driver felt my frustration in the back seat, whereupon he said there is usually queue at the bridge but that the taxi is not allowed to drive in the bus and tram lane crossing the bridge. But all of a sudden, the driver threw himself into the tram lane. Now he told me to cover my eyes because he was now a tram. What? He was driving in the bus lane over the bridge. When we came across the other side of the bridge, the driver drove quickly and smoothly across Brunnsparken and continued on the tram line to Central Station. The cab driver was aware that he did wrong, but it was a convenient way. Thanks to this effort, which was not real, I made it with my train to Stockholm. We want taxi drivers not to break rules to take their customers from A to Ö in the fastest and most cost-effective way. By making changes, we can make it easy for them to transport us. For example, additional training may be needed for taxi drivers to understand certain signals in different traffic systems and how to relate to bus stops, tram stops and more. We would like to emphasise that there is a great value to the customer in that taxis can travel quickly and cost-effectively and make use of bus files and tram files in a completely different way from today. We therefore believe that taxis should be allowed to drive in bus lanes. Mr President, I would like to I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 3 and 9. I apologize for pulling over a little bit.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-816	Mr President, I would like to I will try to stay within my speaking time. I am in favour of the proposal in report TU10 Occupational transport and taxis and rejection of the motions. I'm going to dwell on the taxi business. It has in itself been discussed here earlier this afternoon, but I am going to mention a few parts linked to it. The taxi industry is undergoing a major structural change right now. There are increasing numbers of larger companies and fewer few-man companies. Today, more than 25 000 people are directly employed in the industry. The industry is under a lot of pressure. We saw this not least here in Stockholm with the manifestation a few weeks ago. It applied to the procurements carried out within the LOU, which means that there will be lower profit shares, lower conditions for staff and other things. Here, as you know, there is an investigation into collective agreements and trying to get the procurement rules in order under the Public Procurement Act. We hope, of course, that this will provide better conditions for the taxi industry as well. It is very important that we have a scenario of fair conditions and fair competition in that industry. We have discussed Uber here today. It is also part of the ongoing taxi investigation that has now been extended to December, because there are major issues that need to be addressed. For my part, it is better to do the right thing from the start, even if it takes a little longer. This very thing about the collaborative economy is an issue that is growing in the country. There are several other sectors where proposals are also being made to start different activities in the collaborative economy, so it is important that we sort this out. There have been a lot of breast tones in this debate, I think. Sten Bergheden mentioned the accounting centres. After all, we agreed, both the parties in the cooperation government and the Alliance, that we should push forward the introduction of accounting centres. It was because of the technology shift that is required in the taxi industry. It is not so much about slowness on the part of the government or anything else that Sten Bergheden wanted to suggest, but more about that we have listened to the industry. Claims and fines are also something we have discussed here. It has now been introduced by the Cooperation Government. I just want to remind you of that. Unfortunately, the investigation carried out under the bourgeois government was inadequate, so we have had to take a new decision on the fees – with an increase, as you well know. There has also been much talk in the debate about the alcoboms. It comes up in a special report on 20 April, which we will be discussing here when we debate road safety. It is one of those issues where the committee is fairly in agreement and has been so all along. We have been clear to both this government and, not least, to the bourgeois government by the fact that we in the committee – on the part of the whole committee – believe that this should be implemented in one way or another. The investigation that has precipitated might have left another message or been more clear. Let's see what this lands in. The issue is currently being prepared in the Government Office, and I expect that there will be a timely response. With those words, Mr President, I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-826	Mr President, I would like to We are debating about 60 motions from the general exercise period 2014/ 15 and 2015/ 16 today. I would particularly like to highlight some parts of the report. For the vast majority of people, housing is the safest place they know. It is no coincidence that feeling at home is very positive. The home or home is central not only to people's safety but also to people's working and leisure life. Freedom of choice and various housing options are, for us Christian Democrats, the foundation and have always been. In order to have a modern housing market, it is important to change and develop the rental right as well as to increase the freedom of choice within the rental right. Many prefer to live in a rental apartment. Over 3 million Swedes have chosen this form of housing because it is a good accommodation with a high level of service. But rentals look the same all over Sweden. If you enter a rental apartment from the 1990s, it looks the same whether it is an apartment in Malmö, Stockholm or Östersund. You recognize the tiles, the bathtub and the taps. Today we have standardised housing for rentals. This is not the way forward. One possibility is that tenants may make different choices and selections. This would promote the right to rent as a form of housing. The fact that you can adapt your accommodation to your own personal choices takes advantage of the potential of the tenure form. Instead of standardisation, a mixture can allow for a lower standard for those who so desire and perhaps even for a higher standard for those who want it. For example, there are young people who find it difficult to get enough money, whose housing horizon may be a little shorter and who think that as low a rent as possible is central. At the same time, it should be possible to build even more expensive for those who want high service and high standards of material selection. The variety prepares the way to make rental rights more attractive and provide a wider range of rentals. Changing and developing rental law leads to social engagement and opportunities to develop peripheral services and increase quality of housing. I am pleased that there has been an announcement of an alliance motion calling for rental apartments in residential blocks to be converted into owner-occupied apartments. Ownership apartments have existed since 2009 but only in new production. In other countries, ownership is often the most common form of housing. Allowing a variety of living forms counteracts housing segregation and gives people the opportunity to invest in their accommodation without having to move. In order to further simplify this transition, the majority of the Committee on Civil Liberties also wants the government to develop a form of housing rental system. Through the owner-occupied apartment reform, the housing market has added another form of housing for residential blocks of flats. This contributes to the diversity of housing and increases the freedom of choice of those who are able to finance the acquisition of an owner's apartment. So far, relatively few ownership apartments have been created, which is linked to the economic situation and some uncertainty among market players about the new property law. In the housing sector, however, there is confidence in the owner-occupied apartment as a form of housing, and more and more new production is planned. Another factor that has limited the impact of the ownership apartment reform is that owner apartments have been created only in connection with new production. The possibility of converting existing residential units into owner-occupied dwellings would contribute to the creation of owner-occupied apartments, with the positive effects associated with this. Another aspect that I would like to mention is that of rental statistics. In order to strengthen consumers' power and knowledge of rental development, we need to strengthen how rental statistics are presented. The statistics need to be made available to residential consumers. Good rental statistics would improve the debate on rental rights and clarify the rules. Then we get black and white information about price differences, for example between a rental right in a suburban area and one at an exclusive inner city address. If the price difference is non-existent, something that is repeatedly indicated, it leads to a number of questions about the reasonableness of this. As a consumer, there would be greater transparency to monitor rental development and mobilize when the absurdities of the current leasing system become apparent. The fact that this cannot be reasonably seen today weakens the position of the consumer. Finally, I would like to endorse reservation 10 and wish everyone a happy Easter.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-843	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the S, V and MP reservations contained in the report. Mr President, I would like to This debate is about rental law. It is one of the country's most common living forms and as a construction a rather unique phenomenon. In these days there is some talk about the Swedish model. I would say that there is a Swedish model where the rental right, rental negotiations between the Tenants' Association and the Property Owners and a strong common interest is a fundamental idea, for a society that wants to stick together and not be torn apart. But just as in the labour market, the Swedish model with the right to rent, a strong commons and negotiated rents between parties under strong pressure from parties who want the Swedish model to be something else. The expression that housing is a social right goes back to a formulation in the form of government. It says in 1 chapter. Section 2 that the general must in particular ensure the right to work, housing and education, as well as promoting social care and security and good conditions for health. This means that it is the responsibility of society – the state and the municipality – to create such conditions in the housing market that the supply of housing is of good quality and that affordable prices and rents enable everyone to ask for the type of housing that currently meets the needs. To achieve this, a combination of many tools is required. A household's willingness to pay is not far enough if its ability to pay, its purchasing power, is lacking. The rental right is a more accessible form of tenancy, also open to households who do not want or can own their dwelling, due to the absence of a deposit and effort. However, low income may limit the choice of some households even in the rental market, and the requirement for a certain minimum income may help to limit the option even for households that are able to pay a certain rent. The need for new housing is high, in particular the need for more rental housing. In the short term, in particular, the supply of small and medium-sized rental apartments needs to be increased, while it is important that, especially in view of long-term needs, larger rental apartments are also built. A wider range of rental apartments therefore provides better conditions for mobility in both the housing market and the labour market. A larger range of rental apartments is therefore good for Sweden. The imbalance in economic conditions created not least by the removal of the interest premium and the change in property taxation, but by the corresponding adjustment of the interest rebates, certainly needs to be addressed. There are many indications that competition in the construction sector and the building materials industry is limited, including the development of costs, which significantly exceeds the development of prices in society in general, is a clear indication of this. Today, in many localities, there is an underlying need and a latent demand for housing, which, however, requires lower new production rents in order to be realised. Here the state has shown that it not only intends to point the finger at the municipalities but is prepared to take its own responsibility. For this to happen, a new government was required. State aid can improve the financial conditions for building rental apartments. Aid also provides for conditions allowing housing to be provided on such conditions that it is actually available even to groups whose income makes it impossible for them to demand a newly produced rental dwelling. The commons received by municipal housing companies are strong. Every seventh Swedish person lives in the common good over 800 000 apartments. These apartments are located in 300 member companies with Sabo at a market value of over SEK 650 billion. Public utility is an important engine in municipalities for building more rental apartments. The government's incentives for the construction of rental apartments, and bonuses for the municipalities that build rental apartments, are an important signal – a signal that the municipalities are no longer alone. The state shows that it is prepared to provide resources to stimulate housing construction. In this situation, however, it is not sufficient for municipalities to use the profits of municipal housing companies for anything other than housing-related. It is good that the Minister for Housing has reacted to this. What complicates this debate is that much of the policy in the area of rental law is part of the talks that the government has invited. The committee has therefore chosen not to interfere with those talks by locking fixed parties in positions that will not facilitate these talks. It is important to note that it took a new government to invite people to talk about housing policy. The fact that the government has done this has been hailed by the industry in the form of construction companies, municipal actors and interest organisations. Long-term rules of the game have long been called for, and hopefully these talks lead to this. Mr President, I would like to What rental system should we have in Sweden? Basically, we think that today's system is good, but we are prepared to listen to others. The Government recently decided to appoint a negotiating leader to identify possible needs with the housing market partners and to develop proposals for the development of the current leasing system. The proposals should be aimed at increasing efficiency in different parts of the housing market, developing rental rights as a form of housing, and also improving transparency in the way rentals are set and in terms of different use value characteristics. But from the alliance parties it is now driven on for what is called a me r market-adapted lease, a successful introduction to the spirit of a freer lease and a free lease. Don't worry, they say, eagerly driven by neoliberal think tanks and leadership sides. The Moderates choose to fit. Suddenly, the Alliance soon takes on board all the positions on the matter, a full guard. But what emerges from a bourgeois election victory? It needs the Moderates to answer, for it is the party that claims to lead such a government. During the time of the alliance government, a great deal of effort was put into reshaping tenant-ownership rentals and launching reforms on owner-occupied apartments, Attefallshus and tax incentives to rebuild owned dwellings. Here was the centre of gravity, while the housing building was record low. In metropolitan regions, the effect has been that the share of rented dwellings in the stock has fallen over a long period of time. But what about reforms to strengthen rented housing? In 2006 the Social Democratic Government developed investigation directives to strengthen tenants' rights in rebuilding and renovation. It was a long-needed job. But when the Moderates marched into Rosenbad in 2006, they chose to drive that investigation down into the paper trail. It was necessary for the Social Democrats to return to Rosenbad in order for the tenants' rights in rebuilding and renovation to be re-examined. This study also covers how to strengthen the rights of subletters and how to deal with poor landlords. For us Social Democrats, all forms of housing are necessary to overcome the housing shortage. We like property. Several housing companies are run from the Social Democratic movement. So don't try to mess with me anything else! It is strange that so little work has been done to strengthen rental rights and tenants during the bourgeois years of government, and when the Alliance talks about rental rights, it is about freer renting and restructuring. The right to rent is an important form of housing. It is important for mobility in the housing market and the labour market. It is important for Sweden.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-867	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 7. Mr President, I would like to Sweden must have more housing now. It's never been more important. Housing policy and the importance of more housing are one of Sweden's most important societal challenges. This applies particularly to municipalities and their development and opportunities. Migration challenge, population growth in big cities, population reduction in rural areas, studies, labour market, growth, fiscal power – yes, the list can be long. An understanding of the fundamental role of housing policy is crucial if we are to succeed in our efforts to create a better Sweden, a Sweden that knows more. Of course, the growth aspect and the functioning of the labour market are important to us, but that may not be the most important thing for the individual. Housing policy must be about opportunities for all – young and elderly, families with children and single people. It is about the life and content of the city, the district, the suburbs, the village and the neighbourhood. It is about building a country, a society and a community – a society that stays together. Mr President, I would like to Housing is the foundation of much. Or rather, housing is the basis of everything. In a housing market there must be housing of all kinds, for all tastes, for all levels of income and for all stages and situations of life. There are rental apartments, detached houses, flats and owner-occupied apartments of different standard and size and in different locations. There are newly built luxury apartments with all possible services as well as simple rental apartments that allow entry into the housing market for those of us with lower claims or for those seeking accommodation for a short period of time. Mr President, I would like to In a future housing market, no one should have to turn down jobs or studies because suitable accommodation is not available. There is a large and varied range of homes with different tenure forms. Generous and simple rules for rental of privately owned dwellings make it easy to find temporary accommodation for both shorter and longer periods. Mr President, I would like to We want to see a housing market where housing is the enabler of people's lives, based on freedom of choice as well as mobility and security. This has been the guiding thread and the common thread of the very motions and proposals we Moderates and other alliance colleagues have put forward and which we are now discussing. As I said, housing is the basis of everything. I have now touched on the possibilities of a well-functioning housing market. Similarly, housing problems, housing structures and housing policy are becoming a huge societal challenge, perhaps the biggest. A housing problem becomes a school problem, an exclusion problem, an integration problem, a crime problem and a social problem. This leads to problems and challenges from almost all aspects. Those of us who are born and raised and have spent the majority of our lives in one of these so-called alienation areas – a terrible word really – that exists all over the country know all this. In my own case, the area is called Öxnehaga and is located in Huskvarna, Småland. I spent two thirds of my life there. The housing structure is therefore not only a reflection of social problems and challenges such as exclusion, school problems and social problems, but is in many ways also the very basis and cause of these problems. At least that's why it's hard to do anything about it if you don't go after the basic problem, that is, the housing and the housing structure. Policies and, in particular, housing policy must have as their basis the idea of safeguarding opportunities for all. First and foremost, mobility must be ensured. When it comes to social mobility, that everyone should be able to climb, the ability to buy and own their housing is crucial. This applies to all but especially to those of us who do not come from a wealthy background or have a high-paid job. The Moments from the Moderates and the Alliance for Sweden in the report we are now discussing and about which we are about to decide are all about that. They are about how we can increase mobility across the board in different ways in the existing stock, which is, after all, our largest resource, and how we provide more opportunities and choices to build, live and, above all, make a living career by buying and owning their home. As I said, it is perhaps the most crucial thing for us who do not come from a wealthy background, because the housing becomes the enabler of people's lives. Mr President, I would like to That is precisely why the announcement initiated by the Alliance is so important. We say that the government will come back with proposals that make it possible to convert rental apartments in apartment blocks into owner-occupied apartments but also that the government should investigate a rental – purchase-system for housing. If we want to promote social mobility and opportunities for all, these are some of the obvious ingredients. Mr President, I would like to I note that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left oppose and reserve their opposition to all of this. At the same time, they do not have a single proposal of their own on how to stimulate housing careers in the future, how to increase the mobility and exploitation of the existing stock or, let alone, how to build new housing. Mr President, I would like to To say no to proposals that increase freedom of choice, opportunities and construction in Sweden of the housing crisis is a luxury that we cannot afford, especially when we have a government that has no proposals of its own. With this, I would like to take this opportunity to wish Mr President and the other assembled Members a really good Easter.
i-CQkS5147KArNowAsFmY1Cm	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Green, for your speech. I really only have one question on the speech that I would like to highlight. It is about that living careers apparently always start with rented accommodation and always means that the best you can get is a owned accommodation. I think that says something fundamentally about the proposals that have been put forward. The proposals you have put forward have always been about transforming rental apartments into property. Now comes the continuation of the reform on owner-occupied apartments. The need that has been highlighted in the market is the need for more rental apartments. The question is really how there will be more rental apartments if the only thing that the Alliance is trying to stimulate is that more of the rental market that exists today will be transformed into more owned housing. It is a continuation of a policy that you have been running before, for eight years. The share of rents is very small, especially in the metropolitan regions, not least as an effect of this.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-887	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we do not deny the importance of rental rights for a well-functioning housing market. This is why the Alliance has put forward more than 200 proposals that make it easier to build rental apartments. Unfortunately, I note that there is an almost total absence of simplification proposals and more from the government. The only thing the government has presented is the debate article that invited people to talk about housing policy. As I understand it, it is the Alliance that will contribute with all politics. That's how it's been communicated. The only proposal was to be able to go directly from the master plan to construction. I would just like to note that it was among others my party that decided on this a number of months before the government came to that realization. We have put forward over 200 proposals to make it easier to build rental apartments, among other things. In the general debate, one might think that rental apartments are, above all, a form of housing suitable for those of us who come from circumstances that may not be the most economically advantageous. But the rent is really a very expensive accommodation. Then I think it must be a reasonable entry from politics, if you really believe in social mobility, to make sure that as many as possible in their lives can afford to buy their housing. Then one does not rule out another. I think it is quite obvious that from politics we ensure that those who come from scarce economic circumstances should also be able to afford to buy a dwelling. Once again, Mr President, in Sweden of the housing crisis, we cannot afford to say no to any proposal that is about increasing construction and people's opportunities. Of course you can have comments on the Alliance's proposal, Lars, but come and present your own suggestions sometime! After all, you're in the government.
i-2UBxeeeQEDQZazyYTdTqF5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Green, for your line! The government has presented one of the biggest reforms in the area of housing policy in over 20 years. Your columns in the committee say nothing about housing policy – zero! It is very easy to come here and say that the government has no proposals of its own. Your proposals are valued at SEK 0 in your own budget. Mats Green brings up the discussion about breaking the alienation. I have just one question about breaking the exclusion in the areas that exist in many of our municipalities: how is it better for those who are young and those who have recently come to Sweden to have worse conditions in the labour market and lower wages than everyone else, while at the same time being able to pay the rents that come with new production or go to the bank and take a loan to make a housing career? It feels like the policy pursued by the Alliance has come to the end of the road. Something new is needed here. The new thing is to dare to invest in rental apartments and in building rental apartments that people can afford to pay the rent for. There, the Alliance will be guilty of the answer. How is it going to work together when the conditions on the labour market are getting worse and at the same time you have to pay your rents? How are we gonna do that? And in what way does this break the alienation in Sweden that I and Mats Green share the concern about and that one has to deal with?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-897	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the government must come to the fundamental realization that one must actually start ruling at some point. It still appears that it is a commentator in housing policy in general and that it is still the Alliance that should run housing policy. Now the Alliance has a housing policy, while the government has so far presented nothing. Lars Eriksson refers to the investment aid or contribution to the construction company announced by the Government. We started there, when it was made clear, at just over $1 billion. Then I noticed that every time the Minister for Housing spoke about the support, Mr President, the sum was constantly decreasing. I think we're down to a little over half. We can see that it is also a contribution that no one in the industry wants at all. Everyone says collectively that it will have no effect at all. We now have the highest housing building in several decades in Sweden thanks to the Alliance's simplification journey. This is not enough – it is not enough. That is precisely why the Moderates, together with the other alliance parties, keep coming up with other and more proposals to make this possible. I note that the government is actually just sitting with its arms crossed and referring to housing talks. I also note that the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Housing are on a collision course on what is really needed. Ewa Thalén Finné had an interpellation debate here last week and asked the Minister for Housing Kaplan about the simplifications he will proceed with. She didn't get an answer at all. You have to realize at some point that you are actually in the government. You're the ones who have to start delivering suggestions. Only then can you criticize others. Again, we in the Alliance have put forward more than 200 proposals combined to bring about an increase in housing construction across the board, particularly in the case of rentals. I'm waiting, Lars, for you to deliver the same amount of suggestions. Start ruling!
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-904	Mr President, I would like to We are in the midst of today's great building of society. What society do we want, and what society do we need to build? What we are building today will work just as well in 50 and preferably 100 years. We need to take into account climate change, sea level increases and also increased security of supply. Today's community building is not least about housing construction. The figure of 700,000 new homes up to 2025 has taken place, and if the urbanisation trend continues and if people are to live where they want to live, that is what we need to build. It is a major challenge, a challenge that we must face in order to build the society we want and to realise the green modernisation that our society really needs. In addition, our existing housing stock must be modernised. We need to rebuild and expand. If we manage to make optimal use of the existing housing stock, we do not need to build 700 000 new homes. In addition, a large part of the existing housing stock is energy leaks that are not good for either man or the environment. We must modernise, plan and build the sustainable society of the future, a society where people can live, live, work and be. For the Green Party, a basic premise is that diversity is needed for sustainable social development, a mix of both people and – linked to today's debate – the housing supply. We need several functions in the same area where accommodation, work and school are located around the same corner as commerce and entertainment and where the proximity to everyday trips with the greatest convenience is preferably by bike or by foot. In the same way, we want to see a diversity in the housing stock, a mix of rentals, flats, owner-occupied apartments, terraced houses and villas or whatever you want to live in. Diversity is the key to the sustainable society of the future. These are collective rental rights, generational housing, village communities and preferably new, innovative solutions of various tenancy forms. The fact that we have a shortage of housing in Sweden is not new, nor is it something that has recently arisen. At the same time as we have built too little for many years, the rental dwelling stock has remained almost constant, even when new rental apartments have been built. This is because existing rentals have been increasingly transformed. Since the Alliance after its election victory in 2006, it has made it easier to reconstitute public utility rentals, we have unfortunately seen that this development has accelerated. We need more rentals, not less. Mr President, I would like to We have a housing shortage in Sweden. A large group of people are completely outside the housing market. For this group to be able to enter the housing market, more apartments with reasonable rents, apartments where a fat wallet is not required or rich parents are needed to buy a share in a right-of-occupancy association. Through the conversion of rental apartments, fewer dwellings have become available for groups with limited income. For the rental stock it is unfortunate, because the total supply is becoming more expensive. Newly built rental apartments are – and will always be – more expensive than existing ones. As we transform older rental properties to build new ones, the average rents will rise, and fewer rentals with lower rents will be available. It is unfortunate also for specific areas. We crowd out people with lower incomes and create segregation. But it is diversity that we need in order to build the sustainable society of the future. The Green Party chooses to protect the rental apartments that exist today, so that more people can get a place to live. We see no reason to make it easier to transform more. The political powder should be put on building more new homes. In order to create a mixed housing stock, we believe in densification, for example, to build terraced houses in owned form in existing multi-dwelling areas or why not multi-detached houses in the country of the classic villa carpets. With densification of land already in use, we also use the land in the best way. With the densification of existing areas, we create diversity and counteract segregation. Diversity is the key to the sustainable society of the future. Having said that, I am in favour of reservation 17.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-923	Mr President, I would like to Emma Hult speaks strongly for the rental right and the importance of having more rental apartments. So far, so good. But there is a fairly obvious question that I have to ask. If so, why has the Minister for the Environment put forward twice as many proposals that make it more difficult to rent out a dwelling as a proposal to get more rents? I think it rhymes pretty bad. I'd like to hear Emma Hult's explanation for that.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-926	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mats Green to clarify what proposals he thinks the Minister for Housing has made that make it more difficult for rent.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-927	Mr President, I would like to During the almost two years that Mehmet Kaplan has been Minister of Housing, he has presented three proposals that have handled rental apartments. One of those proposals was that you would receive grants if you built rental apartments. With a little goodwill, we can say that it is a proposal for rental rights, even if all the consultation bodies have rejected the proposal. It's a proposal for rent. But he has put forward twice as many proposals that make it harder to rent out. You speak very well of yourself that you want to get at bad landlords. Again, so far so good. The only problem is that in many ways you own that problem yourself. Poor landlords are unfortunately quite often found within the fairly rich flora of utility housing companies. But that makes it harder to rent out. Then it has been said that we want to reduce the possibility of subletting. It is a proposal for more rental apartments and two proposals for fewer rental apartments. It rhymes very badly with the ambition that the government claims to have that there will be more rentals. I would like a little explanation of this and would like some other thoughts and concrete proposals from the government on how to get more rental rights and, in particular, more simplifications. Again, it is a proposal for more rental apartments and two proposals that are about making it more difficult to rent and making it more difficult to rent out. I would like an answer to that, Mr President.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-932	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I've ever been so surprised in the speaker's chair before. An investigation to strengthen the tenant's position would make renting out housing more difficult. I do not really know what it is you are referring to, Mats Green, or where in the directive it says. I've spoken to the investigator. I don't think it's about making it harder. You're trying to tell me that the commons are our responsibility. The public benefit is the municipal housing companies. It is true that the Green Party is in charge of more municipalities than the Moderates do, and that is a little pleasing. But I believe that your moderate councillors and those who sit in the various municipal housing companies have as much responsibility for what my municipal politicians sit in the municipal housing companies. I do not feel that I or the Green Party are responsible for all of Sweden's public housing companies. You believe that the investigation that will strengthen the tenant's position will cause problems. It's interesting, and it'll have to stand for you. I disagree, and I don't think the investigator or the government does either. You first talked about the grant and said that all the referrals were against. That's interesting. There are many who keep asking for it: When will it come, and how will we do it? Now we want to build that way. Last time I was in contact with Östersund Municipality, who would like to include it in their budget and work it in. I don't think you should be so negative. I would like to add one thing, because there is still some time left to speak. Mats Green stood earlier, in the line with Lars Eriksson from the Social Democrats, claiming that we have no proposals. We're making the biggest investment in 20 years. If Mats Green does not think it is an initiative and believes that it is regulatory simplifications that build housing, Mats Green probably needs to study the planning and construction teams a little better. It regulates how to build, not how much to build.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-937	Mr President, I would like to There was a long wait for my speech. I can quote Lars Eriksson a little. He mentions the Swedish model and the form of government and says that it is the responsibility of society and society to create the conditions for housing. I have a simple question for Lars: How is it going for you? There has been a lot of talk about record spending on subsidies. The framework for building subsidies is not ready yet, so no one yet knows what the criteria are for getting them out. I met with the CEO of a utility housing company on Monday. I would like to refer him freely without mentioning his name. He said: Building subsidies are at best enough for a proper roofing party. Two components, I think, are necessary to solve the housing crisis. More land is needed, and more market is needed. Then the construction will begin. In order for new housing to have an impact on those outside the housing market today, a third thing is also needed: mobility. The Center Party wants to get the move chains started, so that more flats with low rent are released for the newcomers in the housing market. It is known that the lack of rental apartments prevents companies from expanding, when people with the right skills for the job do not find housing on time. More than half of the fastest growing companies in the Stockholm area report that the lack of housing is their biggest threat to growth. The police report states that every other residence in Stockholm is black. Where regulations have been established for too long, a market is emerging alongside, where criminals exploit people's vulnerability for their own benefit. Real incentives are needed to get the production of rentals started and to stop the black market. There is a need for prospects for a freer market in the foreseeable future. The construction and real estate industry needs long-term rules of play and clarity about where the policy is going. The only contribution so far is an investigation into strengthening the tenant's position. The investigator is Agneta Börjesson from the Environmental Party. One might wonder how this investigation would lead to more rents being available and how a more complex relationship between the tenant and the property owner leads to more people wanting to build, own and manage rental rights. There are housing talks going on, but we cannot yet see how they will contribute to the dysfunctional housing market that we have changed, so that those who are currently outside come in and so that those who have received a job or been admitted to an education get ahold of an apartment. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party does not want to introduce market rents through a single political decision, but we want to see a development where it is supply and demand that sets rental levels and where the power and choice of tenants are strengthened by the fact that property owners compete with each other to meet their demand. It may take time, and until we have the necessary housing facilities, there may be gradual changes along these lines, with the aim that within 20 years we will have a free market for rental rights, just as we already have for other forms of leasing. Then, just as now, there is property protection and protection against unfair renting and sudden unjustified increases in rent. I will now explain how we want this to happen. Firstly, we want to introduce open rental statistics that facilitate comparisons between rents, management quality, housing standards and location. Here there is a joint reservation from us in the Alliance, and of course I support it. Secondly, we want to allow new production rents, so-called presumption rents, to affect the rent level also for older rentals in the same area. With too large differences between equivalent housing in the same area, mobility is reduced. The step into the utility value system becomes too large after 10 or 15 years, when the presumption rent expires. Thirdly, we want to change the system of presumption rents. They are an emergency solution that must remain, but we should know that only one third of the new rents are set with the support of these. The Tenant's Association should not, as it is today, be able to refuse to negotiate presuming rents. When private property owners are excluded from negotiation, they must set the rent themselves a, with the risk that it will be reconsidered and become unprofitable. These things go Centerpar tiet into its reservation number 5. Fourthly, we want to allow owner-occupied apartments also in existing portfolios of rental and tenant-ownership rights, facilitate housing saving for young people and offer the possibility of entering into lease agreements where you can subsequently pay off and buy off your home, as is common in France. Here is an announcement to the government, as mentioned earlier. We note that the government, with its support party Left, would rather see a lack of housing than people being given the opportunity to own their housing. Fifthly, we then want to introduce a system of free contract law on newly produced rentals, in which the parties themselves can agree on contractual terms and monthly rentals. These rents will then be tested for reasonableness, as is the case today, and increases in rents will follow the consumer price index. To then allow free contract law means that we get a rental right that gives the tenant a real influence and an opportunity to shape the apartment and the contract terms according to their own wishes in consultation with the housing company. Sixthly, we want to maintain possession protection and protection against sudden and unjustified increases, strengthen the tenant's position by means of own choice and by applying individual measurement of water, electricity and heat where it is economically and technically feasible. Here we have the second alliance-common reservation that I support. Mr President, I would like to With the gradual introduction of these reforms, freedom of contract can be introduced when moving into vacant apartments. Only then, when there is a full balance between supply and demand, can there be free renting also for existing and current rental contracts by means of an inception that can take place for a very long time, five to ten years if necessary. The tenancy is still based on the principle that everyone should have the right to live in a rental apartment, even in the most attractive locations. As a result, in many places we have use-value rents that are significantly lower than the residents are prepared to pay. At the same time, there is an exceptional shortage, where many see the rental right as the only solution. This may be the case, but in that case, primarily for those who have a good and stable income. We want to see more tenure forms, stronger ownership and housing investments throughout the country. We've had rent regulation ever since the Second World War. The Center Party has full respect for the fact that this is difficult and that it takes time to change things like this. We want market rents, but not for a while. A market arises when there is a balance between supply and demand. There is no need for a decision in the Riksdag to introduce market rents. On the other hand, we all need to realise that this is a road we need to take and that it is with a policy that points out such a direction that we are getting real momentum on the construction of rental apartments. Mr President, I would like to The report contains an announcement that the government must return to Parliament with proposals that will enable rental rights to be converted into owner-occupied apartments. In addition, there is a notice to investigate a housing rental system, where you can start your housing career as a tenant and within a few years be the owner of the dwelling. You should not have to move from the area where you enjoy and have your network, family, children's friends and school, the football club, the congregation and the theatre association just because you have decided that you would like to own your home. We can prove that many people want to live in their own house. Wood and furniture companies say in their own surveys that seven out of ten people would like to live in small houses. Think about it! It is unfortunate that more people living in a rental apartment today do not have the opportunity to realise their real dreams of finding their own. When you do it, it means, if nothing else, that the tenancy you sit on becomes available to someone else. I am in favour of reservation 5 and, of course, of the alliance-wide reservations. I also support the proposal contained in the report in those parts where there is a majority for owner-occupied apartments and to investigate rental purchase schemes. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to repeat my message. We do not advocate a political decision to introduce market rents, but we want to see developments that lead to the construction of more rental apartments. There should be mobility that allows those who want to enter the housing market to have a chance without having to rely on black brokers and criminals. Anyone who urgently needs a dwelling in order to accept an employment offer should be able to sublet a dwelling or sign a contract with a property owner for an indexed rent alongside the utility value system. When there is a balance between supply and demand, when landlords compete for tenants both in big cities and in smaller municipalities, we will find that there is no longer a need for a special and mandatory system of negotiation on utility rents, but there is still strong possession protection and protection against sudden rent increases, despite, or because the rents are put on a free and unregulated market. I don't see this happening overnight. There is a need for a consensus across blocs, a recognition of problems and a willingness to discuss with a view to bringing about reforms. With those words, I would like to wish the President and the President's Office a happy Easter. I ask the civil committee's present administrator – he is here – to convey my greetings, my thanks and a wish to everyone for a nice leave.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-962	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson has seen the light in the tunnel. If it's an oncoming train, we don't know. The risk is quite obvious after listening to this speech. At least it was exciting. Rentals for 2015 are the result of the lowest long-term increase in rents. The rent was increased on average 0.6 per cent in 2015. What would it look like if everyone were to negotiate their own rent? Negotiating requires both knowledge and experience. The Tenant Association is a professional negotiator and puts its members' interests first, i.e. as low a rent increase as possible. I get a little worried when I read that it is this part of the Swedish model in the housing market that the Center Party is attacking. If you talk to some of the major private rental managers in Stockholm, they see an opportunity to charge increases in market rents of 1.7 – 3.7 per cent. That is something quite different from the 0.6% you see now. I wonder why it is that it is always the right to organise that is being attacked when the Alliance is tackling these issues. During the last term of office it was the trade union movement. Now it is the trade union movement in the housing market.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-968	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that Lars Eriksson finds my speech exciting. That suggests he's listened to it. The situation today is that for 60 000 apartments there are no agreements on new rents because the negotiations have failed. It should send a signal to Lars Eriksson that something is not working. It is true that the Tenants' Association has the commitment. You also charge the tenants well through the negotiation fee. It affects everyone. Non-members as well as members of the Tenant's Association may pay for the negotiation work. The Tenant's Association is in a constant upper position, where the only option available to the other party is to close the negotiations because there is no mediator who can intervene when the negotiations go to rest. In addition to this, the Tenants' Association has the opportunity to refuse to negotiate presumption rents and to force the property owner to set rents or be part of the utility value system. Then there's something in the system that doesn't work. I am pleased that there is a curiosity at Lars Eriksson. Views may be made on the government's decision to set up a professional mediator to discuss with the parties with a view to making suggestions as to how the parties feel that the negotiating system can be reformed. It's always a start. What I am calling for in my speech is more than that. It is a political will to recognise where the system is going and to have its own views on how to reform the system. I've pointed out a way. It's long, and there's a light in the tunnel. I swear! It's not the oncoming train. It's an access to housing that meets us.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-975	Mr President, I would like to I am part of a movement that is curious and listening. I'm interested in what others think. That is one reason why the government has gone this way to find a negotiating person who, together with the parties in the housing market, will review what can be done more to facilitate the process. I am surprised that the alliance parties are constantly attacking the right to organise. The last term of office was the trade union movement, which was the reason why it became more expensive to join. Those who had the greatest reason to be a member were forced to leave the trade unions. The tenant association is weakened, the reason and purpose of which is to deliver as low rents as possible and to develop the rental right. That was 0.6 percent last year. The market says 1.7 – 3.7 percent. Is there nothing positive about the Tenant Association succeeding in this? In what way does a system such as Ola Johansson advocate hold? In what way does it make Sweden better stick together and develop? I think the Center Party has found its election poster for the next election: preferably market rents! I recommend you to wallpaper our cities with that poster. It'll be a great success. I think the voters are really screaming: please market rents! I have not heard in this House any party express itself in this way. It's a little symptomatic that it's the Center Party that does that. First, it helps to attack the trade union movement. Now they attack the tenant movement. You do it with the slogan: Preferably market rents! There will be an exciting election campaign ahead of us. I wish you all the best.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-979	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Lars Eriksson uses the Tenants' Association as his only remedy in the debate. Wouldn't it have been a better tactic to use the people who are today without a home? In fact, the Tenants' Association loses members. You lose members because people don't want to be in that kind of association, even though they're a good idea. I myself have been active in trade unions, and I know that it is valuable to be supportive and stand up in the organisations that work for one's good. But you lose members because of rents being converted into flats. Construction companies don't want to invest in rentals. We don't get rents. The rental right is the basis for the type of association Lars Eriksson pleads for. But the system has lock-in effects. There is a lack of investment in rental apartments, in renovations and so on. This means that the rental right dies soot death, and with it the Tenants' Association dies. If Lars Eriksson cares about the Tenants' Association in the debate, he should think about what makes Tenants' Association strong, namely that there are rental rights. I understand that Lars Eriksson has not listened to me fully. He pastes electoral posters that convey the very message that I tried to nuance in my speech. We do not need to take political decisions on a development that we can achieve together by promoting a development in which people themselves can agree on the contractual terms of newly produced dwellings, where there is an open and transparent rental statistics, with a review of the system of presumption rents where levels are equalised between the different forms of contracts and more. It would be interesting to know what Lars Eriksson has expectations of the mediator who has been appointed.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-985	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservations 14 and 16. Housing policy is a question of freedom – the freedom to move away from home, the freedom to move to work or the program at the university you finally got into, the freedom to move away from a bad marriage. The bourgeois parties left behind a housing policy in total breakdown. Despite an enormous population development, the bourgeoisie removed the previous investment aid. The building stunk. Rental rights projects that were already started were cancelled when the investment support no longer existed. The Moderates in Stockholm randomly removed large parts of the commons, and huge transformations took off. Attefallshusen that was supposed to save us from the housing shortage was a total failure. The staff at the plan offices became burdened with more and more administration when the then alliance government was going to change the regulations. I'm not in the government, but I see that one should have respect for the fact that it was hardly a set table it came into being. Major reforms are needed to tackle this. We can see that this does not mean more of the same medicine, but new ideas need to be highlighted. It is as Albert Einstein said: Madness is to do the same thing over and over again and expect different results. I am concerned because we have again heard the old voices of the bourgeois parties in the housing debate. Today we have been told by the Moderates that subletting has become far too cheap. It has to be more expensive. They think it is a good thing that an illegally high secondary rent cannot be claimed back by the tenant afterwards. They do not want to protect the tenant from being kicked out of her apartment if she points out that the rent is higher than what it may be according to law. The Moderates think the protection is too strong. Those without contacts, money and good queue numbers should pay even higher rent to their often much richer landlords. Today, a second one can cost $10,000 a month. The Moderates think that's too little. It should cost 12 000, 15 000 – perhaps even more. We have also been told that the Center Party thinks that the landlords should be allowed to set the rent by themselves. That would mean huge rent increases. This would not only be a disaster for the Swedish economy; it would mean that 3 million tenants would be much poorer. It would hit hard on the child's growing up environment and on people's freedom to choose in life. In my municipality of residence Botkyrka, the rent increases could certainly be up 100 per cent. I would like the center party to leave, take the red line to Fittja and tell the young mothers and fathers there that the Center Party has now decided that their rent will double. Fitja earns an average of SEK 15 000 a month, so please remind them that the Center Party also wants to reduce their wages. I suppose you'll have to move some more families into this third grade if you're going to make it, so let Annie Lööf explain. I hope Annie doesn't forget to tip the family that it's no longer an idea to contact the landlord when the fridge broke down or the element doesn't work. A property owner who sets the rent all by himself does not need to listen to any tenant with complaints about the apartment, because it may at any time be exchanged for another tenant in the long queue. I am happy to accompany Ola Johansson out after today's debate. We have learned in today's debate that the bourgeois parties agree that it is a problem that it is not built with a sufficiently low standard, especially for the group that does not get the money enough. In Dagens N yheter we have also read that Anna Kinberg Batra thinks we should start sharing kitchens and toilets with each other even if we are no longer students. Many have wondered if ten-man outhouses are the next moderate housing play. A market rent for a one, that's about what the Liberals think people should earn from a full-time job. Then I would like to inform you that one fifth of the members of the Municipal Council find it difficult to plan their accommodation because they do not have a fixed income. Eight out of ten retired women have a pension that is at the poverty line. I myself am a member of the Trade Union, which organizes shop assistants. The vast majority of those working in retail work part-time. In Liberal Sweden, the income of these women is between 6 000 and 7 000 a month. How will the money be enough for the high market rent, food, bus cards and children's leisure activities? What's it gonna be like when one of my friends who runs the freezer at Ica wants to leave his husband? They will never be able to leave their men with the finances and rents that the Liberals have set for them. But for the Liberals, it doesn't matter. My friends who sit in the register should no longer be able to support themselves, have power over their own lives or choose to walk away from the man who treats them badly or whom they have stopped loving. Liberals want to take away the power of women to control our own lives. It's a liberalism I like to live without. All of this at the same time as the landlords in Sweden today make the highest profit they have ever made. Mr President, I would like to Then let us talk about reality. Many rental apartments face or are now undergoing renovations. It is basically very good and important that we have a high housing standard for everyone. Therefore, the government and the Left Party in the budget are making a special effort to renovate rental rights. But it is also important that the rents are not too high. The tenant should not have to pay for the landlord's years of poor maintenance or for a renovation that is not up to date. Today, one in five needs to move away from their home at a major renovation because the landlord charges an excessive rent increase. These renovations risk seriously impairing people's safety in life. To have a sudden rent increase of several thousand, few can handle it. It is therefore important that the investigation that is now in place regarding increased influence on tenants in the case of redevelopment looks at how tenants can gain greater power in such situations. The Left also wants to strengthen protection against heavy rent increases and clarify the seizure protection and the current rule of protection in the legislation, but which is not used when it comes to standard improvement measures. More rental apartments are being built in Sweden today than are residential apartments being built. That's good. It is above all rental properties we need to build in the future. The benefits of the rental right are several. The tenant does not need to have equity or parents with savings capital. The right to rent makes it possible to increase labour market mobility. It keeps private debt down. A professional landlord manages real estate management in a hopefully good and rational way. The right to rent can be mediated in a way that counteracts segregation – unlike the right-of-occupancy property and the villa, where it is the thickness of the wallet that determines. In order for the rental right to remain a long-term housing form for a large part of the population, we see a need to strengthen the financing of the construction. The funding we have today puts rental rights at a disadvantage. We want to ensure that the State takes over part of the risk of the rental right's financing by offering top loans replacing most of the capital that the private or public-interest investor itself needs to bring in. In this way, many more, including the economically weaker builders, can enter the market and build. If the state does not do this, there is already a clear limit to how much we can build. As far as the state is concerned, it is a question of borrowing at a word-low interest rate. If we are to get 80 000 homes a year, that is absolutely necessary. The left-hand side of the proposal would mean 50 000 new rentals per year. The housing shortage has several reasons in addition to funding. We have a lot of buildable land in our municipalities that are not built fast enough. Only in more than 50 Swedish k ommuner there are currently almost 200 000 homes in ready-made detailed plans. To begin by looking at why so much land already does not exist is, I think, an important issue in order to get up in volumes in construction. If the municipalities have difficulties in bearing construction and investment costs, we need to look at it. We also need to look at how municipalities can more easily take back land that is not built up and put more pressure on developers who are holding back production just to wait for higher housing prices. The use of land for speculative purposes must be countered. We see that land allocated to rental projects is built up faster, and the rental right is a form of lease that all people have access to. We therefore want to reward municipalities that plan land for rental construction. In order for the municipality also to be able to assume its housing responsibility and ensure that the housing issue is solved for all residents, the municipality must be able to prescribe a certain form of lease in the detailed plan. Mr President, I would like to The reorganisations we have seen from tenancy to right-of-occupancy apartments have greatly reduced the chances of getting a rent right today. Since 2000, 160 000 rental apartments around the country have been converted into residential units. It is a development that harms Sweden. The Left Party therefore proposes that legal certainty in the case of conversions should be increased and that the County Administrative Board should be given the opportunity to stop conversions involving sales at a price below market value or if there is a shortage of rental rights on the housing market in question. Today we need more rentals, not less. I'll also say a few things about property management. We think it is important that the tenants live well and receive a maintenance to which they are entitled. The extensive sale of public goods to hosts with short-term interests, many times venture capital companies, has made it increasingly important to provide the tenant with powerful tools in case maintenance does not work. It is therefore a good thing that an investigation is now in place to look at the reintroduction of the Acquisition Act. The municipality should be able to pre-test whether a buyer of an apartment building is suitable. We need more efficient forced property management, and it needs to be much easier for a tenant to get back on the rent if the landlord misbehaves. It is important that the landlords in Sweden are serious and long-term managers. With this I would like to thank myself and wish you a happy Easter.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1019	Mr President, I would like to Now we have heard Nooshi Dadgostar speaking for almost eleven minutes. During the eleven minutes she has not made a single proposal of her own from the Left Party regarding what to do to increase construction in Sweden. The only thing we heard from Nooshi Dadgostar was about stopping, stopping and banning. It is a bit difficult to debate when the questions you would ask other parties are a little too fundamental to dare to ask them. However, I have enjoyed going through the Left Party's housing policy movements over the last five years. There I have not been able to find a single proposal of my own which is about getting more housing in Sweden. It's quite remarkable. Sometimes I think we're living in parallel universes. We have a housing shortage in Sweden. I would like Nooshi Dadgostar to list the positive, active proposals for more housing that the Left Party has put forward in the Swedish Parliament over the past five years. It should be quite easy, because if you had been like the rest of the parties you would have had quite a lot to choose from. Talking for eleven minutes about housing policy without making a single proposal of our own on how to get more housing in Sweden is quite remarkable for a housing policy spokesperson. I'll make it easy for Nooshi Dadgostar: Name five left proposals for more homes in Sweden that don't contain the words
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1024	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Green, for the question! It is sad that the bourgeois parties, if Mats Green is allowed to represent everyone, never hear when talking about the solutions that exist, unless they are spelled deteriorations for tenants or market rents. It's only when Mats Green hears what I'm saying. There are a number of proposals that I raised in my speech. I'll repeat the suggestions I made. The Left Party believes that the state needs to go in and take part of the financial risk of tenancy building. Right-of-occupancy funding is currently disadvantaged in relation to right-of-occupancy and house building. That is why we think it would be something to put in the hands of the weaker builders who do not have enough equity to start a project. For example, it would benefit a large part of the common good, which would be good. We see today that we have a lot of buildable and fully constructed land in the municipalities that are not built. We see that there are a number of large companies on the ground to wait for increased house prices. They, as it were, hoard the land instead of building on it. There we want the municipalities to be able to take back the land and build on it directly. We also want to reward the municipalities that work to provide land for rental construction. It's the rent we're talking about today, Mats Green. The large housing package that we now deliver, which is the largest in 20 years, will also benefit tenancy building. We also want to make regulatory simplifications in the Public Goods Act to ensure that public utility companies can have more opportunities to build.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1030	Mr President, I would like to That was not an answer at all! Nooshi Dadgostar talks about regulatory simplifications. It is strange, then, that the Left has not made any proposal at all in this congregation about regulatory simplifications. What is called the biggest housing policy initiative in 20 years means taking money from young employees and giving it to housing companies. It's contributions that no one wants. Nooshi Dadgostar mentioned in his speech that the profits of landlords are too great. It is rather strange that the Left Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, want to put a number of billions more into these companies. I would like to hear Nooshi Dadgostar develop this. Again, the Left Party has not made a single proposal for more housing in Sweden. That's not good enough if you're a spokesperson for housing policy. What is Nooshi Dadgostar's suggestion on how to change PBL? What proposals does Nooshi Dadgostar have as regards appeal possibilities? I would like answers to all these questions. I may not agree with the response of the Social Democrats to all of this, but they still have some good will answers to the questions. But the Left has nothing. You can't just stand there and polemize. You're a support party to the government. The Alliance is not in the government. What further suggestions and thoughts does the Left have to increase construction in Sweden? Is the housing package, which takes from young employees and gives to landlords, the only thing that the Left has been involved in performing during this term of office? Is that all you have right to expect from the Left Party?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1037	Mr President, I would like to It's fascinating to listen to Mats Green, who always asks the same question. We have had a tenancy debate in the Chamber today. In it, the Moderates did not have a single proposal to increase the construction of rental apartments. The only proposals proposed by Mats Green were to reduce the number of rents. That is the proposal of the bourgeois parties. It makes you wonder if this is what your input is in this tenancy debate is. If Mats Green had gone to the trouble of perhaps reading the report we are discussing here today, he would have seen that our proposals on simplification of the rules for the common good are among the things we will vote on after today's debate. We want to make regulatory simplifications so that the public good can become a stronger engine for building out in the municipalities. I have also mentioned government loans and land policy that favour the construction of rental apartments, and I can mention even more if Mats Green is willing to listen. We want to see regional guidelines for each municipality, because we see that many of the municipalities governed by Mats Green's party, for example in the Stockholm region, do not build enough housing. That is why we need to raise this issue at regional level. Mats Green wonders if the investment support works. Yes, the last time we had it, two out of three rental apartments had not been built without the support. Mats Green noticed that, because when his party was in government, the investment subsidies were removed, and then the construction of rental apartments was stunned. That is not very difficult reasoning. What Mats Green's party wants to do is give money without making demands on the companies. When we give money, we make demands that the companies also build. That is the difference between left and right in Swedish politics.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1042	Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 3 and 4. For time-winning, I do not support our other reservations, but I am of course behind them. The Swedish housing market is characterised by too little housing and too little market. Long-term regulations do not build enough, and queues and taxes mean that people cannot, do not dare or do not want to move between the properties that already exist. The consequences of this for every individual affected person are great. The queues of the rental market shut them out without social capital and contacts. We all know that every other apartment in Stockholm is a black deal. The prices of the right of residence exclude them without financial capital for an effort. It is often the same individuals who are excluded from both the rental market and the owned market. The left-wing parties paint it as a conflict between them, but I think it is a general deficiency. Today's housing market is probably our prime example of an attempt by politics to regulate justice and equality that has actually created social injustice and fewer class trips. Just go out to Rinkeby, Rosengård and Hjällbo. The consequences for politics and growth are also difficult, but I do not hear anything from the left-wing parties on these issues. Companies are finding it harder to grow, and the competitiveness of our economy is weakening. Most recently today, the media report that the German start-up company Cuponation, which is planning to move to Stockholm, has chosen to stay in Munich. It would be too difficult for them to find accommodation for their staff in Sweden. The fact that companies choose not to come to Sweden and that people cannot move to work means that at least 15 000 people in Sweden go unemployed who would not have had to do so. For both individual human opportunities and for the development of Sweden as a whole, we must put this right, and it is we politicians who have that responsibility. We know why we stand where we stand today. All facts and statistics from all types of institutions are available online. Boverket has pointed out, among other things, that an appropriate planning process needs to be developed, that we have the EU's toughest rental regulation, that the utility value system is increasingly functioning in an overheated market and that the costs of moving and changing homes are likely to be the highest in the entire OECD. Liberals see a whole housing market with challenges. It is not just the rental market that has great challenges. We must therefore take a holistic approach. The Liberals welcome the announcement that, unlike today, owner-occupied apartments can also be formed in existing rental apartments. We want to see that all districts in all parts of Sweden should be able to have different types of housing, i.e. rentals in Askim and tenant-owners in Angered. Ownership rights would increase freedom of choice, not least in the million-programme areas where there is often no other than rental rights available. You should also be able to make a stay in your own area. But the Liberals want to go further; we do not think that is enough. It shall also be possible to convert right-of-occupancy apartments and detached homes into property rights. It is not possible today, nor will it be with this announcement. That's why we have a reservation about it. We also see clearly that the government parties, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats do not in any way have a policy that meets the challenges we have in the Swedish housing market. There is a lot of talk about solidarity and everyone's right to housing, but in practice they are defending a system that has led to 350 000 young adults lacking their own housing. They defend a system where 700 000 homes are missing and where you have to queue longer to get a leasehold than East Germans needed to queue up to get a Trabant car in East Germany. The Left Party, the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Swedish Democrats are thus defending this system. I think you have a responsibility to dare change a system that does not work. What does this lead to? Yes, to social segregation and exclusion. This is the result of the Swedish model that the Social Democrats defend. I marvel at the reluctance to see reality as it is. None of the measures highlighted by the Liberals will make society more segregated. Liberals take the challenge seriously with wise, necessary and sometimes difficult balances. Unlike the parties I have just mentioned, we want to see long-term and radical reforms to solve the Swedish housing crisis. I would like to mention four points in particular. First of all, we want to see free renting in new construction. The Swedish rent regulation is described by the OECD as one of the strictest among their member countries. We therefore also differ from our Nordic neighbours. In Norway, Finland, Denmark and Iceland there are market rents in parts of or the entire rental market. I can guarantee that it does not mean the doomsday that Nooshi Dadgostar paints. I can guarantee that people do not go around homeless people in Oslo, Copenhagen, Helsinki and Reykjavik. When the Left Party shouts wolf, it is hypocrisy. Make study visits in Oslo, Copenhagen and He lsingfors and see if people are homeless there! They're not. On the other hand, they have a better functioning housing market; it is easier to get housing there. It is in practice easy to get a place to live in Oslo or Copenhagen. I do not understand the opposition to this when practice shows the opposite. The criticism of Swedish rental regulation comes from the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF, the World Bank and the Council of Finance Policy. All of these argue that the current system does not work. It is in the light of these expert statements, and not the views of the Left Party, that we propose free leasing in new production by allowing the rent under the presumption rent system to also be freely agreed between the lessor and the lessor. Now Nooshi Dadgostar will probably take a line on me and mention the report Ramböll produced on behalf of the Tenant Association. The problem is that what Nooshi Dadgostar always compares to is not at all the proposal put forward by the Liberals. We want to see a presumption rent system that applies to everyone without a shorter time limit. It should be combined with a strong possession protection and a predictable indexation throughout the period the tenant chooses to stay. This differs considerably from the doomsday proposals that Nooshi Dadgostar paints. In addition, the latest EU survey shows that the production of rental apartments would increase by 6% with the Liberals' proposal. Our proposal would therefore give more rents, I can inform the parties on the left. Secondly, we want to see reforms in the utility value system for increased mobility. Even within the existing stock, renting should in future reflect more consumer demand and individual choices. Within the utility value system, location and choice need to have a greater impact so that rental levels more closely reflect supply and demand. Nobody's moving because they want parquet floors. The situation and public transport are crucial. A person growing up in Angered or in Bishopsgården does not have the same security, school results, outdoor environment, access to services and services as a person living in Majorna or Askim. It is hardly possible to defend the fact that the rents in Angered are as high as those in Majorna. There is no justification for the fact that the rents in Bishopsgården are as high as those in Askim. That's completely unreasonable. In the future, rents must reflect demand much better. Thirdly, we want to see better opportunities for second-hand rental. There is no party in the Swedish Parliament that really believes that we will manage to build 700 000 apartments until 2025. We must therefore make better use of the existing stock. Johan Löfstrand, who is the spokesperson of the Social Democrats for housing policy, has himself acknowledged this in a conversation with the Rights of Housing where I was present. Liberals therefore want to see more free renting when renting villas, flats and owner-occupied apartments. Since 2013, there have been freer rules, and this has led to more advertised second-hand housing in owned dwellings. We now propose a further step with a more free renting when renting villas, flats and owner-occupied apartments through a more generous calculation of reasonable rent. We also believe that the ceiling for tax-free rental income should be increased so that more people dare to report white. Fourthly, we want a rental statistics in Sweden. The power of tenants as consumers must be strengthened. Knowledge gives power, and knowledge about the price of renting a home is particularly important because housing costs make up a large part of a household's expenses. It is therefore essential that reliable information is available. We therefore believe that public rental statistics should be developed so that a transparent system can be established. Our reservations mention many other things that we would like to change, but I choose to stop here.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1073	Mr President, I would like to I thank Robert Hannah for his speech. Obviously, it is not just the Center Party that has seen the light and comes and tells as its catalogue. Now the Liberals have joined them. I have to say that the announcements that come today from the alliance parties – preferably market rents – are interesting. Robert Hannah and I share a concern, and that is that there is too little class travel in Sweden. I can agree with Robert Hannah on that. But I do not understand how there will be more class trips in Sweden when, with one hand, the conditions in the labour market for young and newcomers are to be reduced and with the other, we are pushing for more free renting and market rents. Preferably market rents, the Center Party even shouted out here earlier. I guess you'll have to understand that you've been talking about this. I do not understand how it becomes a Sweden that holds more together and where you get more class trips if you pull apart and increase the differences between those who have and those who do not have instead of trying to build a Sweden that sticks together. It would be interesting to hear how Robert Hannah discusses this. In fact, I do not understand how the Liberals are arguing about market rents. Robert Hannah is standing here saying it's nothing dangerous, driven by think tanks and leadership sides on the neoliberal side.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1078	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Lars Eriksson, for choosing to ask questions. Liberal policy is not based on liberal think tanks, but on the EU, the IMF, the Council of Finance Ministers, the OECD and many others who firmly claim that we need reforms. We have the strictest rent regulation in the EU. What is the result? Yes, 700 000 homes are missing, 350 000 young adults lack their own home and it takes at least eight years to get a rental apartment here in Stockholm. We have over 1⁄2 million people in Stockholm's housing queue. I do not understand what more is required for you Social Democrats to understand that the model you defend is a complete failure. I would also like to say that anyone who claims to stand up for a solidarity-based refugee policy as a serious party must back it up with a sensible and reality-based housing, labour market and integration policy. You do not even want an integration policy. You don't even dare admit it's necessary. We have both a housing crisis and a major migration challenge in Sweden today. The policy we already have and which we are pursuing today will lead to greater exclusion. For where will these people end up if we do not open up our systems? Well, they will end up in Gårdsten, which has already had a 33% increase in population in 15 years without anything happening. Reforms must be introduced to back up the ambitions of migration policy, for example. I am absolutely convinced that without the reforms proposed by the Liberals, we will soon have Paris suburbs in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The class trips there will stop immediately. They've already done that today. People choose to move. As soon as you get a better income, you leave the Bishop's farm. Why? Yes, because there is no way to own one's own home. We believe that there should be all types of housing in all parts of the city. It is crucial for us to reduce segregation, for it to be better and for you to be able to make class trips. We must listen to those who know best. I listen more to the European Commission, the OECD, the IMF, the World Bank and the Financial Policy Council than to the Tenants' Association or property owners.
i-Xvz9qJvcPUzbsDR4NeBTp8	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Hannah, for the answer to the question! When you listen to Robert Hannah, you can think about whether the Liberals were ever part of the bourgeois government during the last eight years. It sounds like nothing has ever happened in Sweden until now when the newly awakened idea of market rents will be launched with noise and bång. Robert Hannah says that as soon as people get an opportunity to leave the Bishop's farm, they do. Well, so if you introduce market rents, they'll all be left. In what way, can one think about, will market rents provide cheaper rents? Will people get it? No, everyone will rather get higher rents on average. I explained earlier here what one of Stockholm's largest private property managers says, namely that the market situation in large parts of Stockholm is that they could increase by 1.7 – 3.7 percent. Tenant's negotiations have resulted in a 0.6 per cent increase in rent. It is clear that it makes a difference if you have a strong and organised tenant business in Sweden or if you have market rents in full. You say that then we get a Sweden that stays together. Then we'll have differences that will be smaller, as long as we don't have what you describe as the terrible suburbs of Paris. We will not have them if we only introduce market rents in Sweden. Then it will be a good life to live in the suburbs that Robert Hannah has listed here. It can be linked to the policy pursued by the Alliance in the field of labour markets. You can really wonder about it. This applies to poorer conditions, lower wages and lower labour market rights for young people and new arrivals linked to market rents. Then it will be a Sweden that holds together, Robert Hannah describes. Allow me to hesitate about that and congratulate you and the Centre Party on running business in the election as a poster.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1089	Mr President, I would like to The problem that the Social Democrats do not really understand is that today it takes an average of eight to nine years for a newly arrived woman who has come to Sweden to get a job. In our proposal, we are talking about a reduction in employers' contributions and a reduction in wages for four to five years. It really does not cost anything if you take into account that your policy has led to an average nobody getting a job at the time. Let us consider what challenges we are actually facing. I think it may be the case that rents in central Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö are increased, but then they are heavily subsidised for people who do not need these subsidies. People living in the inner cities already have good wages. If it is something that we liberals believe in, it is social liberalism. This means that we should help those people who have challenges but not subsidise people who do not need it – everything from entrepreneurs to individuals. We have a country meeting decision to develop housing allowance. We definitely need to review them to help those individuals who need it, but we do not want to pursue a policy of helping individuals who do not need it or subsidising housing where it is not needed. When it comes to the problem you encounter, I think the Tenants' Association is important. I think they will be important in the future too. If there are times when individuals will go there and ask for good service, it is with a system where you negotiate yourself, because then you might be able to hire them to help. The Social Democrats scare with the wolf when what we in the Liberals are asking for in practice is not New York and London, but Oslo, Copenhagen, Helsinki and Reykjavik – cities with social-liberal rental market systems where people can get a home and avoid standing in line for eight years, renting a third hand or buying a black contract. What we are asking for is, among other things, a community that holds together by being able to get a place to live. Today, the problem is that you can't even get a place to live. Where will the new arrivals who come to Sweden live? I have no idea, because you have no answer to that.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1096	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Hannah, for feeling so thoroughly hit by the Left Party post. That was quite right. The rental model that Robert Hannah wants points to Finland, Norway and so on. When market rents were introduced in Helsinki, rents increased by 71 per cent. They got a moving carousel without its like, which meant that huge living areas were completely empty because no one could ask for them. In Norway they have a completely different housing model where rentals are barely available. I would nevertheless like to see a certain degree of honesty in the debate here. In Sweden we have a completely different housing model: the Swedish model. There we have considerably more rental apartments than they have in the countries that Robert Hannah pointed out. We also have the world's highest standard of housing – let us not forget that. We shall be proud of the way in which we negotiate rents. One should know that Robert Hannahs's predecessor Nina Lundström was very critical of the market rents that Robert Hannah and Jan Björklund are now trying to bax through. There is strong opposition within the Liberals to a system that involves the market for certain rental properties and, as in all other countries that have market rents, social housing for those who cannot demand it. I have a specific question for you, Robert Hannah. It is just a very simple question: how do the Liberals analyse the fact that more rental apartments are being built today than residential ones?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1101	Mr President, I would like to It is always fascinating and fun to discuss with the Left Party. We have very different opinions but a strong commitment to these issues. The problem you encounter when discussing with the Left Party is that they assume that the Swedish system works, that everything is fine, that everything is peace and joy, when they defend the model that we have. But in practice, I have reported Stockholm's housing queue to Guinness' record book. Why? Because it's the longest housing queue in the world. Does the Swedish housing market work? Isn't Sweden segregated? Isn't Gothenburg one of Europe's most segregated cities? Yes, it is. Is it easy for a young person to get an apartment in Sweden today? What we are starting from are the absolute experts in this area and what they point to. It is the OECD, the IMF, the World Bank and the Fiscal Council. Everyone points out that Swedish rental regulation is extremely problematic and leads to an extreme increase in the price of dwellings. If you are to come here from India and work, for example, you have to buy an apartment in practice, although you should rent. You ask about more rentals than tenancy apartments. That's great. To be honest, it is not the politicians who should decide the form of living. I think the rent is flexible. It's easy. It's full service. It is an extremely good form of living. I have lived in this form of living many times and I like it very much. From the Liberals' side, we have no problems whatsoever with tenancy, tenant-ownership or property rights. We Liberals want somewhere to have as many choices as possible. Then I would like to point out something that Nina Lundström quite often draws attention to when we have debates and discussions. I think Nina Lundström is an amazing politician. The issue of rental statistics, deposits, housing register, reforms of the utility value system.2 which also means many things is what she supports. She's not behind Left Party politics. But you may have got that picture, because there is one point that you share equally. I welcome debate within the Liberals. But it's not very strong. There's a lot more on my side. We have a united party on this issue.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1107	Mr President, I would like to I note that I do not get an answer to the question. When it comes to the right of residence, it is the individual who sets the price, so to speak – it is a free price formation – while the right to rent has negotiated rents. Yet it is rentals that are being built. You're not answering the question, Robert Hannah. Then one wonders: What is the problem? There's a problem. That is why we in Sweden changed, from having had market rents, which meant a huge social misery. The landlords made more money raising rent than building new ones. Building new buildings reduces the possibility of increasing rents. It's like a short circuit in the logic of the liberals – that's the problem. I don't know how many in his own party agree with Robert Hannah. But leave it alone, because Robert Hannah is a spokesperson. On the right-of-occupancy side we have the opposite problem. They do not build because they want to push up prices all the time. Robert Hannah doesn't see that problem? What should you do when it becomes more profitable not to build than to build? For example, how does Robert Hannah want to get to the developers who are currently on the ground and are not building because they are waiting for higher prices? It's exactly the same thing that's going to happen on the rent side. Robert Hannah says it doesn't work. You have had housing policy for eight years, sold out a lot of rentals and removed all investment aid. Robert Hannah highlighted some countries. Remember that their government investments on the housing side to build housing are significantly higher than those we have in Sweden. In Sweden, we invest very little in housing construction. That is why the housing package is also very good.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1112	Mr President, I would like to I find it very entertaining to see the Left Party defending the subsidies, for the simple reason that the houses are already ready. The houses that have applied for these grants are basically clear. Those contributions were not needed. The houses are there. Go to Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm and watch them! The contributions were certainly not needed. Subsidies only take out the system. We want a free market with free rules. As you say, the builders do not need these contributions. They have pretty good profits. The problem lies in how we politicians have shaped rules and systems. From the Liberal side, we have been saying for over a year that we are critical of the system we have been building up, when we see that the result leads to 700 000 missing homes, 350 000 young adults who do not have their own home and extreme segregation in large parts of Sweden. These are challenges to which we must have answers. To be honest: it is not enough, as the Left Party, to defend only a system that does not work. You have to ask yourself what's wrong with the system? And not just make the system even bigger. I understand that the Left Party finds it difficult to see that the Liberals have nothing whatsoever against rents. We think rents are great. The liberals in Gothenburg have proposed that we build rental apartments for 300 000 people around our million-dollar programme, precisely to increase the range of different types of accommodation there. The lease is great. Nooshi Dadgostar's figure relates to the number of tenancy rights built, but if it is also taken into account that tenancy rights are converted into tenant-ownership rights each year, it can be seen that more tenant-owners than tenancy rights were created last year. We have no problem at all with rentals. We don't see that there's a war going on between condos and condos, as you do. We believe that we have a major crisis in the entire Swedish housing market and that we need to build 700 000 housing units in all different types of housing and especially in tenancy. We have no problem saying that it is a major challenge and that we need to build those homes.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1119	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating questions about rent law. We can see that there are proposals from the committee to provide more alternatives to the rental right and the right of residence by facilitating ownership and transfer to owner-occupied apartments and introducing a rental purchase system so that eventually the apartment in which you are a tenant can be taken over. We believe that large-scale reviews of existing housing loans are needed. It is about looking at targeted housing loans against young people and tax-deductible housing savings against young people and reviewing the Bank's total loans rather than always going to the individual. Consideration should also be given to whether the ceiling of the loan should perhaps be adapted to the price of the dwelling instead of having as a system to always have 15 per cent as a loan requirement. There are major problems with financial stability today. If there is an approaching housing bubble or only if foreign banks get the feeling that a housing bubble is underway, there will be more expensive loans from foreign banks to the Swedish ones, which of course increases the interest rate for housing loans in Sweden. These are important pieces to look at in order to create financial stability in Sweden. At the same time, we know that there is a major problem with black rental contracts, which also makes the migration chain difficult. We know that we are facing rent increases and high rents in the future, due to the renovation of million-dollar programmes but also due to new production where rents are always higher than in old apartments. We have to ask ourselves the questions: Who are we building for? Who's gonna build? We need to build for many groups, including the young people who live at home and want to have an opportunity to move away from home, the families with children who need a larger home and all these new arrivals who have come to Sweden over the years but above all in 2015. It is people who have low incomes, if they even have any income, which means that it is primarily rentals that are relevant for these groups. Who, then, should be the builders of these dwellings? In the end, it is a great responsibility of the municipalities, that they become builders, with the subsequent increase in support for the people who are going to live in the apartments but who today lack an income, with the high unemployment we are in. At the same time, we hear from the government how the Minister for Housing talks about the need to create decent-rent housing and that this is what a large group of people are asking for. We see that we need to build 700 000 homes over the next ten years, which is equivalent to 70 000 a year. In addition, we have a migration forecast from the Migration Agency of 70 000 – 140 000 asylum seekers to Sweden. It is said that over five years there can be up to 1 million asylum seekers. This, of course, leads to a great need to build housing and that it needs to happen quickly. At the same time, the labour market cannot supply people who can build these homes to the same extent. This ultimately leads to higher house prices and higher rents. I sit in Sweden's housing crisis and listen to how debaters talk about introducing market rents in Sweden. Everyone knows what it leads to. It leads to higher rents. What else does that lead to? Possibly more housing can be built, but few people are able to pay rents for these homes in market rents Sweden. The Swedish Democrats do not believe that this is the solution for the future. As of 1 March, the Government is forcing municipalities to accept refugees, whether or not they are able to do so. This, of course, leads to a pressing need for more housing. The consequence is likely to be many expensive modular homes. Who's gonna pay for this? In the end, it will be the municipalities and taxpayers who will have to bear the consequences of the migration policy pursued by the government and supported by the Left Party and the Alliance. In order to resolve this, housing policy talks have begun. The government has invited the Left Party and the Alliance to these talks, while the Swedish Democrats are kept out of the ordinary traditional order. But it is these parties that have created the chaos of housing shortages that we have in Sweden today. From having a balance in 2003, we have a crisis now in 2016. Perhaps it is right that these parties should hold such a discussion, even though the Swedish Democrats would of course have liked to be part of these talks. We wish you the best of luck in solving the problems with the situation that you have all been creating in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In this situation, the Swedish Democrats want to take the opportunity to make a few contributions to the talks that the Swedish Democrats are being held outside. First of all, of course, we need a refugee break before we can solve the housing crisis in Sweden in any way. There is also a need to review the law on own housing that allows refugees to settle where they want if they arrange their own accommodation. As a result, today we have creaked apartments in the municipalities. There is also a need for the issue of mortgages, as I mentioned earlier. There is a need to increase competition between construction companies, which I have mentioned several times from this speaker's seat in previous debates. There is a need to improve loan financing for construction companies in order to increase competition and to enable more construction companies to participate in tendering for construction projects. We need to have a housing and infrastructure preparation in order to create a longer perspective in order to enable more housing to be built. It should therefore be a housing and infrastructure committee that concerns more than just one committee's areas. These are important elements for creating foresight in the housing market. There is something that is completely missing today. Building housing takes an average of six years, and in the big cities nine years. That means you can't have a population growing so fast. It knocks away the legs of any kind of forward planning in the housing market. Instead, hasty proposals are being brought forward from all sides in order to solve the crisis in which Sweden has been put. We also believe that some form of investigation is needed to enable the state to be involved in supporting those university and university municipalities that today need help to arrange housing for our students. In order for the labour market not to lose skills in the future, more people need to be educated at our higher education institutions and universities. Of course, there should be that possibility for people other than those who already have a place of residence in the metropolitan regions where universities and colleges currently exist. It is extremely important that the whole of Sweden can live and that the whole of Sweden can get educated and competent people. And there should be opportunities for those who do not live in the metropolitan regions to go to university and university municipalities to get an education. Mr President, I would like to With these words, we from the Swedish Democrats have given our input, and we hope that they are taken into account in some way.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1142	Mr President, I would like to Following the Swedish Democrats in the Civil Committee can be likened to having a party that is a bit like Arne Hegerfors as a sports commentator and that never has to take any responsibility or think something for itself. They can only comment in general. I would like to know what rental legislation the Swedish Democrats want. What beach shelter do you want? How do you want to change national interests? Which nature reserve system do you want to see? Which planning legislation do you want to see? What rules of appeal should we have? What temporary exemption rules can you imagine having in, for example, the PBL? What policy do you pursue in order to achieve more concrete land? You can not only act as Arne Hegerfors and sit and comment, but you also have to have your own ideas and thoughts about what policy you want to conduct. That is a lot of rhetoric, but a little in practice on your part.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1145	Mr President, I would like to I thank Robert Hannah for these questions or how to interpret it. It is interesting that, although I have been in the speaker's chair for so long, Robert Hannah has a need to know what we really want in the area of housing policy. In the first place, of course, we are faced with a situation where we need to create housing in the housing crisis that we have in Sweden. Who, then, has created this housing crisis? Yes, it is not the Swedish Democrats. It is not we who feel the need to quickly change a lot of rules in order to create new housing. I think that, before we started talking about all these changes, we should perhaps have had a forward view of the housing market. You haven't. In 2015, Sweden has received more than 160 000 asylum seekers, while there are no housing. What did the Liberals think about this? How did you think when you opened up this opportunity in Sweden with a high unemployment rate and without housing for people to live in, instead of doing what the Swedish Democrats have been advocating for so long? It is about primarily helping in the neighbourhood to create decent conditions there, instead of taking people to Sweden who are allowed to live in tent camps in the Swedish cold with bad conditions where you do not have the opportunity to get into society in a good way and get a job or a place to live. How did you think there when you created the chaos that we have in Sweden today?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1150	Mr President, I would like to Roger Hedlund only confirms my thesis here. It's a bit like choosing a new pope when you decide which housing policy you should have. There's a bill coming from the government. You go into some chamber, then you come out. There's smoke coming out, and then you've decided what you think. You have no housing policy. The question still remains: how do you intend to solve the housing crisis? Why do you even sit in the Swedish Parliament if you do not have any views at all on housing policy? Why do you sit in the Swedish Parliament and say nothing? It will be a bit like ping-pong and a lottery when it comes to what you should think in committee. I think everyone would benefit from knowing what the Swedish Democrats actually have for politics and how you want to solve the housing crisis. It is not a responsibility that you have only because you have been in Parliament before. The Swedish Democrats have been in the Riksdag since 2010 and are also part of Swedish democracy. Then they must also respond to what they want to do in all policy areas. You can't keep saying it's supposed to be a refugee stop. I can inform you that the housing shortage we have in Sweden does not depend on the number of asylum seekers we had last year, Roger Hedlund. There were 350 000 young Swedes who lacked their own accommodation before this happened last autumn. The fact that we need 700 000 homes is based on figures without the flow of migration. I'm still missing answers. How do you plan to solve the housing shortage? You can't just back down and say that you have no responsibility because you haven't been in parliament or government before. You also have a responsibility to bring forward a sensible and good policy – or at least to have views that are not sensible or good. We know nothing about what you want when it comes to beach protection, national interests, nature reserves or planning legislation. How are you going to get more buildable land? What do you think of the appeal rules? What do you want to do? What do you even think? You're in Parliament for a reason, I hope, and you want something – right?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1156	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Robert Hannah is standing here demanding answers from the Swedish Democrats. He cannot answer the questions I ask, but he obviously wants answers to his questions. It is a rather classic rhetoric from a politician who does not want to take responsibility for the situation he has put Sweden in. What proposals do the Alliance and Liberals have in this area? Yes, you always talk about regulatory simplifications. What regulatory simplifications will create housing to the extent required in the coming years, i.e. 70 000 a year? The reason why about 50 000 housing units are starting every year is rather the economic situation and other developments than the creation of better conditions for construction companies in Sweden. The important thing here is to come up with concrete proposals, not to talk about regulatory simplifications, market rents and other ideas that are supposed to create apartments and housing. What does free market rents for housing actually create? It creates housing for very few people. But will all others, who will suffer from rent increases, have an opportunity to find their own accommodation in the future? I don't think so. The Swedish Democrats came up with a couple of input questions for your housing policy talks, which you choose not to invite us to. Or perhaps it was the government, I should say, but I might think that the Alliance and Liberals should stand up and think that all parties should be involved in the talks – instead of coming and demanding the Swedish Democrats' answers to the question of what changes we want to make in order to solve the chaos Liberals and the Alliance have been very much involved in creating for two terms of office.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1160	Mr President, I would like to In the Constitutional Committee's opinion KU11, the committee deals with the Commission's annual reports for 2014. On the one hand, it concerns the twenty-second report on subsidiarity and proportionality, which sets out the application of the same in EU legislative work. It is the so-called subsidiarity report. Firstly, the 10th report on relations between the European Commission and the national parliaments, the so-called liaison report. The KU is unanimous in this opinion, but it is nevertheless important to highlight the opinion in this House. I would like to touch on certain aspects that I find of particular interest. With regard to the communication report, relations between the Commission and national parliaments were strengthened when the Commission presented the so-called Barroso initiative in 2006, also known as the political dialogue. It aims to increase the involvement of parliaments in European affairs. The report contains, inter alia, an account of the subjects raised by national Parliaments to the Commission in the context of the political dialogue. In the report, the Commission notes in 2014 a significant reduction in the number of opinions and reasoned opinions compared to the previous year. The decrease corresponds to approximately 19%. However, this decrease was mainly due to fewer initiatives being presented during the year due to the change of Commission. It is also clear that 80 per cent of the opinions came from the ten most active parliaments, including the Swedish Parliament. This shows that the activity of the political dialogue is unevenly divided between the chambers of national parliaments. I think it is important to develop the interparliamentary exchange of information. It would not only ensure the effective exercise of parliamentary powers but also contribute to a more balanced distribution of the participation of national parliaments in the framework of political dialogue. Today, there are opportunities for collaboration through, for example, Cosac or IPEX, but these forums have not been fully sufficient to achieve a meaningful exchange of information. As in previous years, the political dialogue of national parliaments with the Commission mainly concerned legislative proposals. The Commission encourages national parliaments to participate in the preparatory legislative phase, either by responding to public consultations or by commenting on strategic documents such as Green Papers. To date, however, very few Parliaments have expressed their views before a legislative proposal has been adopted. In any case, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs welcomes the fact that national parliaments are involved in examining and reviewing Union documents that precede the legislative process. The committee also believes that the Commission's decision to forward new legislative proposals and consultation documents directly to national Parliaments, within the framework of the Barroso initiative, can contribute to an in-depth debate on Union cooperation within the Member States. With regard to the subsidiarity report, the Commission sets out its work on assessing and justifying proposals based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. This report underlines that respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality will be central to the work of the new Commission, which should be seen as a positive development. The Commission also refers to the Better Regulation Package adopted in May 2015 which provides, inter alia, updated guidance on the assessment of the principles in the context of impact assessments of new initiatives. In this context, the committee has noted that for several years, most recently in the Communication "Better Regulation for Better Results – An EU Agenda", the Commission has stressed that each proposal should be accompanied by a better justification. Nevertheless, we were able to note that more than 15% of the legislative proposals sent to national parliaments for subsidiarity review were completely lacking. The motivations were also often brief. We, the Constitutional Committee, have on several occasions called for detailed justifications in connection with the Commission's transmission of legislative proposals to the national parliaments. It is certainly appropriate in this opinion to recall once again that Protocol No 2 obliges the Commission and other proposers to provide justifications based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. The absence of justification clearly infringes the Protocol and, in turn, makes it difficult for national Parliaments to fulfil their Treaty obligations under the Protocol. In the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, this represents a weakness in the legislative process within the Union, for which we believe the Commission is ultimately responsible. Mr President, I would like to The opinion also states that the Commission's proposal for the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office de facto triggered a yellow card when 13 reasoned opinions were received from national Parliaments on the draft law. Nevertheless, the Commission maintained its legislative proposal, which has led some national parliaments to submit opinions to the Commission in 2014 on this issue. In these opinions, Parliaments expressed dissatisfaction with the Commission's decision to stick to its proposal. The Commission was also criticised for not responding to the reasoned opinions until after it had decided to stick to its proposal. My view in this part is that criticism has largely been justified in this particular case. The yellow card procedure is a political tool which the national parliaments have the opportunity to make use of and also did in the above-mentioned case. In this respect, the Commission's dialogue should reasonably have been better before the Commission finally took its decision. It is also important that the Commission takes into account the views of the Member States in these respects, not least in the further legislative work on the Commission's proposal to establish a European Public Prosecutor's Office, given that the proposal reached the yellow card limit. I would add that it is important from a democratic point of view to do so, but also in view of the European Union's efforts to achieve more effective cooperation. In addition, the opinion presents an initiative by some national parliaments on the so-called green card which is intended to give Parliament greater influence in the legislative process. In addition, the Commission's stated ambition to be more active in its relations with national parliaments is evident. In this connection, the Constitutional Committee recalls that the political dialogue between the Commission and Sweden takes place through the government, which is responsible to the Riksdag. Only within the framework of the subsidiarity control mechanism can Parliament communicate directly with the Commission on the basis of the Treaties. It is therefore important that Parliament, such as our Parliament, should not be disadvantaged because, for constitutional reasons, we do not have the opportunity to participate in the political dialogue. Finally, Mr President, I would just like to mention that the Constitutional Committee points out that several parliamentary committees have pointed out that the Commission is increasingly proposing regulations instead of directives. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs would like to draw the Commission's attention here to the fact that this reduces the scope for national parliaments to adapt legislation at European level to the different constitutional conditions in each individual Member State. In other words, instead of regulations, directives would be better. In the light of the speech, Mr President, I support the position of the Constitutional Committee and urge the Parliament to put the opinion to the vote. I would also like to wish the President, the other Members and everyone at home a happy Easter.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1176	Mr President, I would like to Today we have to debate the KU's statement 11, which contains a lot of exciting figures, trends and other statistics that the interested person can read himself to without me having to stand here and rab them up for you. So I did not intend to take up your time, Mr President, or anyone else's time. However, I do not know whether what I actually intend to talk about will go much faster, because the first thing I intended to question and problematise is already the title of the opinion itself, the examination of Commission reports on subsidiarity and proportionality, etc. That sounds fine and comprehensive, Mr President, but as is so often the case when it comes to the European Union, there is one or two euphemisms. Although the matter at first sight gives the impression that the Riksdag has also assessed the proportionality of the decrees coming from Brussels, the person who makes the statement discovers a little more in detail that this does not have to be the case at all. On the contrary, it is quite clear that the scope for Parliament to have views on whether an EU action at all is reasonable or appropriate to introduce is extremely limited and wing-cut. At most, one must try to interpret a sideline to an old ruling in the European Court of Justice very extensive and almost touch on e contrario if one wants to dare to point out the proportionality of a proposal. Otherwise, therefore, the review is not so much about the EU's various devices being implemented or going beyond what is compatible with the will of the people, but only about the regulatory framework to be put in place. Here it had been hoped that the British would have made much further progress in negotiations with the EU in the run-up to the Brexit vote. It is true, Mr President, that the EU is happy to offer some elbows. Not least on the part of the Commission, we are often trying to find solutions which perhaps give the impression that there are real opportunities for national parliaments to influence, while at the same time designing them in such a way that they are of no practical significance. The system of yellow cards, in a bit of different dark shades, is a perfect example of this. As far as the present investigation is concerned, this is evident not least in the case of the Commission's proposal to set up a European Public Prosecutor's Office, Eppo. Despite the fact that the national parliaments finally managed to join forces and overcome the high-level thresholds for issuing a yellow card, as only one of two times, the Commission chose to express its full and disrespectful thanks for the comments, disregarding the same and sticking to its original proposal. In view of this, it is perhaps little wonder that the British did not manage to get through a red card that could actually stop and bury obviously inappropriate and poorly anchored proposals. Another example of this disrespectful attitude towards the parliaments of the Member States, which may not seem to be seen in rhetoric but in practice as something of a rounding mark, is the failure to constantly start concrete negotiations on the proposals within and between the EU institutions before the elected representatives in our respective highest decision-making assemblies have had an opportunity to raise their possible objections to the initiatives. Even the failure to constantly advocate more regulations instead of directives is one way of once again cutting off national parliaments. Further examples of small lustres that the European Commission has in mind, Mr President, relate to the interpretation of Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A number of areas in which the Union is considered to have exclusive competence to decide without having to anchor its proposals with a lot of difficult elected representatives in the national parliaments are listed in detail here. In particular, in the context of our then current government having to approve the Treaty of Lisbon for some reason, it was pointed out that that list should be considered exhaustive, so that no more or other areas could be circumvented. But look at it, Mr President, the European Union did not think so. Instead, it has been chosen on its own initiative to interpret it as such, so that it may well be necessary to ignore the subsidiarity test in other areas, which are not defined at present. What if we here in Sweden had acted in a similar way with regard, for example, to the criminal catalogue in the Freedom of the Press Regulation, Mr President? Here we have a number of listed crimes that should be designated as freedom of the press. At the same time, however, we reserve the right to judge, on more or less arbitrary grounds, that other acts should also suddenly be regarded as criminal without, for that reason, having to pass it as a change to the Constitution. It is not without seeing some similarities between how the EU treats Sweden and how the other two blocs in this Parliament relate to us Swedish democrats. It is said, and we are perhaps telling ourselves, that if we are only never so submissive to everyday life and are prepared to compromise, or perhaps even by our own accord, to deviate from our positions and principles, we are showing a good willingness to negotiate. This will probably increase the chance for the others to listen to us when it really is. But, of course, when it comes down to it, it is rarely or never the case, Mr President. If this is perhaps most boring and not so cooperative for us Swedish democrats, it is in fact the Swedish constitutions and the principles of law that are constantly at risk of being excluded from the EU. The big difference is that such a rigid approach does not really affect us and our party's success and growth so much. Perhaps it is more the case, as we have seen, that the other parties are adapting to our policy in the dark. Sweden thus pays over SEK 40 billion a year for this forced administration. Is that what it's supposed to be? No, of course not, Mr President. Had I also had access to props up here in the speaker's chair this time, it would probably have been that trash that Sverker Olofsson and the others used to use in the TV program Plus. This is where I, and many others, believe that large parts of the Commission and their agenda belong.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1190	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect to my other colleagues in the Constitutional Committee, I would like to say that we have two real EU gurus. One of them has spoken, namely Emanuel Öz, who very well described what the review report is about. I shall therefore allow myself a slightly different angle, Mr President. I love car holidays. With my family, I've been riding all over Europe and visiting virtually every country. As a child of a Hungarian father, I also visited much of the 70s and 80s of former Eastern Europe. I have experienced an open and welcoming Europe, where, as a Swede, you just had to wave your passport in the window to cross the border. I have also experienced hearings and searches. They have gone through bags and so on when crossing the border to the east. It's taken bribes to get on with it. But it has never prevented me from developing a very deep love for Europe. Since then, I have lived, worked and studied in several countries. I am a very strong supporter of the European Union, which was formed to exploit our communities and to avoid the divisions that have resulted from past real and cold wars. Mr President, I would like to I regard the EU as something like a house, as a right-of-occupancy association, where 28 countries in Europe have chosen to live under the same roof. They have members, a chairman and a board. In some apartments you have to have standards that should be common. Other apartments can be designed at your own discretion in accordance with specialization decisions. There is a constant dialogue between them. Mr President, I would like to What does this have to do with the KU11? Well, we in the Constitutional Committee, having examined these reports, as Mr Emanuel so well described, have looked at how it works in the European House with influence and decision-making processes. It works much like in the Housing Association. Some of the apartment owners have chosen to speak to the chairman directly. Others have chosen to conduct the dialogue via representatives, we would call it that. We in Sweden have chosen that the dialogue should take place between the government and the Commission, while others have direct communication. It is important that we who live in this house have the same influence, even if we choose different routes of communication. This works a little bit, as we also point out in our position. Those of us who have chosen the model chosen by Sweden should not be disadvantaged. When you have delegated decisions, that is to say, you have subsidiarity, and when you hear how the apartment owners want it when you take joint decisions, you cannot go to decisions on the board with the chairman until you have heard all the members. The principle of subsidiarity must be applied before decisions are taken. We highlight the importance of this. The same is true of respecting our various individual governments, cultures and the like. The tendency to go more on regulations than on directives is not something positive in Sweden. It is important to emphasise that. Mr President, I would like to In times of trial, a day like this, the day after a terrorist attack was directed at the very heart of this cooperation, it is more important than ever to help strengthen the European Union, not pack up and shake up.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1197	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for approval of the reservations which the Moderates, the Centre Party, the Left Party, the Liberals and the KD have made regarding membership of the Church of Denmark. We think that you should choose which congregation you want to belong to, just as you can choose a school and buy any car you want. I can take an example from Gothenburg, where St Pauli's parish has been a real stronghold for women's clergy opponents. It was not easy for those who lived in that congregation and went to church. There were ordinations of male clergymen who opposed women's priests. It was not easy to baptize one's children in that church. Then they wanted to be in the nearby Örgryte or Härland parish instead of in St Pauli parish. I think it is almost worrying that we cannot dare to say yes to such a thing. It is not a question of a revolution if you let people choose. Perhaps they have lived in Övertorneå far up in Norrland and moved to Smygehuk but still want to remain in their parish up there. Then I think you should be able to be able to be, even if you obviously go to church in your neighborhood. Our report also deals with the position of the Church of Sweden. I am opposed to the committee's proposal here and would like to make a personal reflection on this. A position has been taken that there should not be a total separation between church and state. But they've already partially separated. When you divorce in a marriage, you do not make it 50 percent or 75 percent and say that you are married 25 percent and that it is just as good. Here it is a little bit so, I think, that you have done this and not dared to go all the way forward. It is also the case that the Church of Sweden collects a membership fee through taxation. There is no other association that receives its membership fee through tax, but then it is voluntary contributions. Each one of us is blessed with his faith. I think that is very appropriate in this particular context. We have a little different beliefs about how this should be. But I look forward to new times and more exercise. It is time, then, for us to take new healthy steps and try to pursue this, so that there will be a separation between church and state to 100 percent.
i-9UL82Ehivwk4omzJouFc5P	Mr President, I would like to In the Constitutional Committee's report Faith Society, we have dealt with five motions from the general exercise periods 2014 and 2015 on the position of the Church of Sweden and on the membership of the Church of Sweden. Motion 2015/ 16:760 by Hans Wallmark on parishion has received special attention from us in the KU. It contains two tots. One that-the movement is about free parishion within the Church of Sweden. This endorsement is unanimously rejected by the KU. The second statement is that the Church of Sweden should be given the right to decide on matters of parishion. This statement is also rejected by the KU, but we are representatives of five parties who want the Riksdag to endorse this statement that the Church of Sweden can decide for itself. From the Center Party we believe it is reasonable from a democratic point of view that the Church of Sweden should have the right to decide on organisational issues that apply to whether to have a geographically determined parishion or a freer parishion. But I would like to stress that this is not a signal for the Centre Party in the Riksdag that we would like to have free membership of the Church of Sweden. It is easy to see that free parishion would create a lot of problems for the Swedish Church. It is more reasonable for the Church of Sweden to make those assessments than for us in the Riksdag or the Government to do so. I support the reservation in the Constitutional Committee's report. We state that the Church of Sweden itself should be allowed to decide whether the current regime with a strict geographical link in relation to parishion should be maintained or whether a freer order should be introduced. The government should therefore return to the Riksdag with proposals for necessary legislative changes. It is therefore a question of legislative changes that give the Church of Sweden this right of decision.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1205	Mr President, I would like to I also call for the reservation to be approved. So there are a number of exercises that are up for treatment. Normally, motions are rejected. It is by no means abnormal. Rather, 95% of the motions are rejected. But we have had a little more discussion about this motion because it is important in principle. Just as we heard Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson mention, it is not a question of how we really think and think about free parishion or not. There are pros and cons for the Church of Sweden. The question is who should decide whether the Church of Sweden should organise itself so that you can choose which parish you want to belong to in Sweden, geographically somewhere where you do not live, or whether it should be like it is now where you basically have to accept that you should live where you are written, so to speak. The Church of Sweden owns the matter. There are pros and cons of one or other solution. I grew up in Karlskrona and was for many years a member of Karlskrona Admiralty Assembly. It was a non-territorial assembly. It was all right. It worked. Here in Stockholm you will find the Finnish parish. You can have connections to the Finnish Church without living directly nearby. You feel a sense of belonging and can be a member of that congregation. That thought is not alien. If I had been active in the Swedish Church, I think I would have supported that idea. We now leave the matter to the Swedish Church to decide, with the reservation, to the committee's report. Can you do that? Yes, in 1622 by Mikael Oscarsson and in 2001 and in 760 by Hans Wallmark, the exercisers in the motion that has been raised suggest that a freer parishion would provide an opportunity for individuals to be in a congregation to which they feel a stronger emotional connection than the church in the place where they live after one or more moves. That should be a question for the Church of Sweden. We believe in the five-party reservation that it is a reasonable idea not to take a stand for the Swedish Church but to give the Swedish Church the right to take a stand.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1210	Mr President, I would like to The report we are dealing with today has the title of "Confessions of Faith", and it is precisely about religions. From the general period of exercise when all Members of Parliament are allowed to raise motions if exactly what our hearts are full of, five motions that have been submitted to the committee have been included in the report. We politicians have a responsibility for the whole of Sweden. We work primarily in our own constituencies. If you belong to a larger party with several members per committee, responsibility is usually divided among the members. On my table is this issue, among other things. Therefore, I visited a number of religious communities, the Swedish Church and Luleå diocese during the last week. Luleå diocese is Sweden's largest diocese to the surface, and it covers both Norrbotten's and Västerbotten's county. It covers one third of Sweden's surface. Nevertheless, only half a million people live there, and they are divided into 57 congregations. During my visit to the diocese, I met the bishop, who spoke about the activities of the diocese. He described the various conditions for the congregations. It is often the church that is the hub of places where the rest of society has retreated. I would also like to quote what the diocese director said, which I also had the chance to meet during the visit. She said she wouldn't want to see the separation of the church and the state as a divorce, but rather as a change of relationship. Mr President, I would like to The religions play an important role in society, including by being a cohesive force by showing compassion and being a voice for people who otherwise have no voice. In order for the communities to be able to act as social actors, to be active and long-term in their religious activities in the form of services of worship, soul care, education and care, the government has increased the support to the religious communities by SEK 7 million, which we Social Democrats of course both appreciate and encourage – especially in our time when it feels like the outside world is becoming increasingly worried. Mrs Engblom mentioned in her speech yesterday's tragic events. When groups are pitted against each other, the religions play an increasingly important role, not least the Church of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to One of the motions in the report concerns free membership of the assembly and whether it is an issue to be decided in the Swedish parliament or within the Church of Sweden. This is an issue that has been raised in previous motions both in Parliament and within the church. It may seem strange that the state should care about which congregation I have my membership in. I can understand that doubt. However, given the area from which I myself come, I can see the consequences if membership is free. Some congregations would find it difficult to survive. The guarantee of having a national folk church would thus be weakened. Moreover, there has been no desire from the church to change the legislation. We Social Democrats therefore see no reason to change the current system. Moreover, it is no problem to be active in another congregation or to visit another congregation than where you are written. Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report and reject all motions. I would also like to take this opportunity, given the day today, to wish the President and my fine colleagues in the committee a happy Easter.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1220	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer! Emilia Töyrä has presented the views of the majority in an excellent way. It is well founded, and she expresses an understanding of the reservations of the reserves. It is a good way to deal with an issue where you land differently. That sounds good. Emilia Töyrä also goes through that she has been in contact with the Swedish Church. From those with whom she has been in contact at the council, there is no desire to change things. Thus, she also fulfils the line in the Riksdag. That is a perfectly honourable and very sensible position. This also means that Emilia Töyrä, and the majority with her, makes a decision that would actually belong to the Swedish Church and not be on our table. I can agree that there are disadvantages to the possibility of free membership of the congregation. It is not obvious what the Church of Sweden should choose. I can be pulled in both directions if I have been involved in the matter. But it's not really up to me, it's up to the Church of Sweden. I am absolutely convinced that the Church of Sweden had distinguished itself from the issue in a way that would have suited them best. Would Emilia Töyrä as the representative of the majority consider reconsidering this in a future if it turns out that it benefits the Swedish Church to decide about itself?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1224	Mr President, I would like to Tuve Skånberg from the Christian Democrats is asking me if I could reconsider this decision. As I said in my speech: If wishes were to come from the Swedish Church to Parliament, it would definitely be worth a thought and something that would be good to talk about block-crossing. Where I can imagine that we differ is on the question of how we view free membership of the congregation at all. Should there be a request from the Church of Sweden, I would be willing to reconsider this. But as it is now, we do not want an announcement when opinions from the Church of Sweden have not been presented to us in committee.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1228	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1230	Mr President, I would like to It will soon be Easter, but we in the Alliance think this is an important issue. I see that the government and its support party do not think so because they are so few in this House. But this is an important issue. Our cultural heritage is important. I agree with our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 5. The report is divided into several parts. I'll dwell on two of them. The first concerns the museums. Since 1 February this year, there is free admission for adults at some state museums here in Stockholm. Those of us who come from the country don't think it's fair. We in the Alliance believe that it is first and foremost our children and young people who should be given access to culture. That's the most important thing to see to. Now you can be taxed when you go to the cinema, but as an adult you can go to the museum for free – if you are a Stockholmer. The government has strictly forbidden museums to charge visitor fees, which brought in about SEK 120 million, and sends only SEK 80 million. But it requires museums to find out which new groups of visitors can come and how to increase the number of visitors. As far as the number of visitors is concerned, it is clear that Östermalmsdamerna goes several times at the museums in Stockholm. So do the visiting tourists. We will have to come back to this issue many times, Mr President, because it is extremely important to see how to mislead politics from everyone's access to some people's access. The second part, Mr President, is Provenance research. Reservation 5 applies to this. In several international contexts, we are committed to setting up and going through what raids made by the Nazis during World War II that may be found in the state museums. We will find out if there are any and if so, make sure that those who have ownership can get their valuables back. We simply want an independent Commission to be set up to find out whether we have stolen items in our collections that can be returned to their rightful owners. That is the reservation that the Moderates and Liberals are behind. As we are about to enter on Easter leave, I will stop there and allow the next speaker to come forward.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1241	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with cultural heritage issues. As I see it, cultural heritage issues can be approached in several ways. The first is to partake of living heritage, environment and memories. You can give a moment's attention to conversations with your grandparents. It can be one of the best investments made, perhaps not in cold money but in social capital and in the possibility of taking part in the collective memory. The second is to study – to improve in cultural heritage studies based on the axis globally – nationally – locally and to understand the constant development of culture but also national unicity and locally linked heritage. The third is that, on the basis of our different guiding principles, we see what is the responsibility of politics. What heritage have our ancestors left us, what is left us today, what do we have to manage and how do we manage it? Why is that important? If there are differences of opinion in this House. But based on empirical evidence, we know that something unique has been left to us on this particular part of the earth. We have a responsibility to manage the cultural heritage, which is the foundation on which the whole of society rests. It is a foundation that provides collective and individual security and orientation and, in addition to forming the foundation, is the kitt of our windows and frameworks towards the outside world, the cohesion and the supporting walls of the community. We politicians are social architects. We have drawing tables with different sketches for social development depending on political preferences. But on cultural heritage issues, we have a common responsibility to be national builders. We in the Swedish Democrats have presented a palette of comprehensive reform packages and support for the forms of cultural heritage in our budget. On the table today is a report dealing with a rich Swedish cultural heritage, from castles and churches to intangible heritage and museums. There are a number of sensible proposals and reservations in the report. At the same time, I regret the majority of the committee's support for several much-needed announcements – in several cases with very thin justifications, in other cases through party political locking over pragmatism. To mention some of the issues where the Swedish Democrats have reserved, I want to start with Mälsåker Castle, where I have been on a study visit. It is a fantastic cultural environment in a castle-rich landscape and one of Sweden's most magnificent Baroque castles. Why is it important for the Committee on Culture to be involved in such an issue? As the responsible authority, Riksantikvariebet has indicated a need and suggested that this should be able to function as a national building maintenance centre. Ownership and the future of the castle are in process, but we believe that the Riksdag can explain its support for state ownership. Another issue concerns decommissioned churches. Sweden's Thousand Years of Christian History faces a historic challenge. Demographic and organizational changes in our dioceses and parishes make our nearly 4 000 culturally-historical preservation churches face many challenges. In many places it will not be possible to afford to keep and preserve the churches, notwithstanding the church antiquarian compensation. The Swedish Church's own property investigation has highlighted an urgent need for a national action plan. Our exercise on the subject is a first step, but more will follow, because this is an urgent and topical issue which I assume will be closely monitored by more parties in the future. The third issue concerns safeguarding the intangible cultural heritage. Unesco has, of course, given directives to the nation state on lists of heritage worth intellectual property. The Institute for Languages and People's Memories has taken this to heart and is now working intensively on collection and compilation, and at a later date there will be a nomination process. Eel fishing, especially on the Åla coast, is an intangible cultural heritage of great value. I have been there on a study visit and seen a fantastic living cultural heritage, a threatened industry with surrounding cultural tourism and the environment with challenges. We shall give this all our support, but we are not prepared to anticipate the ongoing work of the Institute. On the other hand, we believe that essential expressions of security and preservation are missing from the committee's position, hence our motivational reservation. Cultural heritage issues are one of our main fields of cultural policy in the committee's preparatory area. What does Kultursverige say? There were 18 million visits to Sweden's museums, cultural environments, homesteads and outdoor museums. We are looking for history, root systems and contemporary orientation. At the same time we see a polarization and a powerfully applied paradigm shift in the museum world. One claims to be prepared to close open-air museums and tell other stories. In the long run, it may be a matter of cutting roots and erasing the collective memory. It's extremely serious. On the one hand, it shifts focus from the primary mission, and on the other, it makes integration difficult. Several have responded to recent reports on cultural heritage. This is how liberal debater Adam Cwejman, a short time ago, reasoned on the Swedish exhibitions' claim that Swedish museums would be exclusive by depicting Swedish history: It's not just a rare stupid performance, it's directly condescending as it treats those with foreign background as oversensitive children. We can do without your misdirected concern. 中 More and more people understand and pronounce the value of cultural self-esteem. But anxiety adjustment worries. Activities must be able to be safe in their core business without being imposed on prevailing, narrow political doctrines. The museum sector is both pleased and concerned. Great work is being done by large and small people around the country. At the same time, discussions are concerned about challenging the so-called whiteness norm and recruiting on the basis of ethnicity. There are dangerous tendencies towards ethnic quotas and discrimination. It is a silent cultural revolution, which gives us unpleasant links to how authoritarian states sometimes used culture to redefine national identity. What we need is security, not rootlessness. The Environmental Party then governs the choice of the Ministry of Culture. It surprised some, when many felt that the party lacked cultural policy. In any case, there is a lack of cultural heritage policy in particular. You shoot it in front of you: It will come in the autumn, you repeat. The cultural heritage has been relegated to the cleaning closet in the corner and the funds for the conservation of the cultural environment have been reduced in a situation where the sector is underfunded and calls for political will and support. The Green Party may have green fingers, but you get red cards as social architects and building keepers. We must never imagine that Sweden is culturally rootless. It's false, it's a lie and it's a goddamn lie, but it's a good resourceful one. It is as artistically creative as the fact that cultural heritage actors should redefine their assignments according to diffuse doctrines. Cultural Sweden and Cultural Heritage Sweden need collection, conversation, constructive dialogue and long-term rules of play. The cultural gap and alienation need to be bridged. Sweden needs faith in the future, and we do not get that without the solid foundation to take hold of. Mr President, I would like to Let me conclude with a brief reflection in contemporary diverse cultural landscapes. Doubt, anxiety and denial easily lead to complete censorship.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1264	What is true and what is air? The family follow the generations, remember respect for the father's song. I am behind all our earnings, but for time winning, I only agree to reservations 8 and 10. I would also like to wish Mr President and the committee members a happy Easter.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1266	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support the joint reservations of both Alliances, but I choose here to ask for the approval of reservation number 6 only. Mr President, I would like to We have a challenge – a challenge to safeguard our cultural heritage and at the same time reconcile this heritage with the demands of modern society: demands for expanded infrastructure, demands to build new ones and demands that sometimes seem to run counter to preserving the fantastic cultural heritage we have in our country. The Alliance government knew this and saw the problems but also the possibilities in this. They wanted an overall view of the management of the landscape, which means that the cultural environment is taken advantage of in the development of society. Properly managed, entrepreneurship and new construction, built around cultural heritage, can contribute to both growth and employment. That is why it is important and right that the Alliance Government's cultural objective of a holistic approach to the cultural landscape will continue to apply in the future. In our cultural landscape there are many national interests. At the same time, the system for protecting these national interests is obsolete, and many also call it unwieldy. The Swedish National Audit Office has also criticised the state's handling of national interests and how it makes it difficult for municipalities to plan new housing, among other things. The national cultural environment action plans adopted in 2012 address, among other things, people's participation and the opportunity to understand and take responsibility for the cultural environment. The cultural environment is also important for knowledge, education and experiences. In addition, a diversity of cultural environments must be preserved and at the same time used and developed. The aim is to promote a holistic approach to the management of the landscape, which takes advantage of the cultural environment in the development of society. These are important targets. And it is important that the words are also included, as is the use of the cultural environment in the development of society. It is, as I see it, about cultural environments that live and are used. But, of course, there may be conflicts and contradictions between strict preservation and sometimes for the cultural environment, perhaps for far-reaching development and change. We need to facilitate housing in our country. The housing shortage is a significant problem. The construction process needs to be accelerated at all stages in order to facilitate and provide better conditions for construction. Among other things, changes, modernisations, cultural requirements and the rules for archaeological studies may have to be implemented in order to facilitate construction. Cultural conservation is important; I would like to emphasise that. It is important to protect and nurture our cultural environment. At the same time, however, we must be able to meet the demands of today's society in terms of construction and growth. Mr President, I would like to Today, much of the national expertise in the field of culture is largely located in big cities or in the capital. We're missing a lot of the talent and creativity that's out there in the country and that should benefit more people. Nor is it sustainable. Instead, we should find a model that makes us highlight excellence where it is located in different places in the country. This should be done in cooperation between the regions and the state. Perhaps it is time for a new model of national cultural policy? What I mean is that we should build on the ideas that have made the collaborative model successful and make a similar model for the national level. At the same time, the state cultural institutions, such as our state museums and their activities, need to be made more accessible throughout the country. This can be done, for example, by making the collections available digitally and through good conditions for lending objects. But it can also be about the institutions, the museums, being commissioned to compile exhibitions that can tour around the country. For example, why not arrange lectures and exhibitions adapted for smaller areas, such as rural areas, sobriety fields and Folkets Hus? It would provide more opportunities to access the museums' collections and expertise while also providing many other benefits. For example, schools, as well as other municipal institutions, can be given greater access to cultural heritage and history. The possibility of placing more permanent activities of state museums in more locations in the country should also be reviewed. This is a better way to make our cultural heritage available for more than free admission to adults living in Stockholm. I will conclude by wishing Mr President and the President's staff a happy Easter.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1279	Mr President, I would like to For all of us, March 22 will never be another day like everyone else. The heart of Europe was shaken by blood, smoke, shrapnel and death. In a way, it could be said that the bombs were aimed at us. What was tried to blow up was all this House and this pulpit represents. Today we are debating cultural heritage. Transparency, tolerance, freedom and cooperation are our legacy. We are united about this and must protect it. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all of the Liberals' reservations in the KrU9 report, but for the time to come, I only ask for reservation 2 under paragraph 1 and reservation 6 under paragraph 5. Mr President, I would like to Our history is told and defined by the time we live in and by those who have or consider to have the interpretation for every given time. The fragments, images and events that society chooses to highlight and preserve are what the next generations will see as our heritage. In other words, the storytelling tells us what has been considered important by those who have had the opportunity to reflect reality. If the history of a particular group is made invisible, it does not exist. Throughout history, it has probably been the most common way to marginalize, exclude, abuse or, in the worst cases, attempt to exterminate people and groups. Our museums are one of the leading and most important players in storytelling. This obviously means that the role of museums in defining what is important is central and significant. Sometimes I wonder if our Swedish museums do not go through some kind of identity crisis and feel almost compelled to redefine their mission in order to keep pace with current societal developments. This development is at first sight easy to celebrate. But it also carries the risk of choosing to become so general and so accurate in its reality statement that the heritage itself is lost and that you miss other important parts of your work in creating tomorrow's cultural heritage. The museums must of course be modern and relevant in their present time but also conservation and thought through in their description. Mr President, I would like to A recognised fact is that all Swedish museums have collections that mainly contain heterosexual history. Although there are clear guidelines for the preservation of the LGBTQ group's cultural heritage, this is still not taken seriously in 2016. It is deeply problematic because the inheritance is at risk of being lost. Currently, several organisations, including RFSL, are working hard to make the LGBTQ group's representation and rights visible also in the cultural heritage. That's excellent. But just like the existing museums in Sweden, the organisations do not work with LGBTQ people's cultural heritage in depth and in the way that is best needed for the heritage not to be lost. In order for the LGBTQ group to receive highly justified representation and we will get stories in a fair, broad and deep way and thus get the group's situation recognised, visibility is central. With this, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 2. Mr President, I would like to Sweden suffers from chronic housing shortages. Not least this afternoon's debate in this House has highlighted this clearly. Sweden also has a huge need for infrastructure investments. Development needs are enormous. Only recently this was limited to metropolitan areas, but that is no longer the case. It is a myth that this only applies in the cities. The housing shortage and the need for infrastructure development exist in all parts of our country. At the same time, large areas of natural value and cultural values are protected from exploitation and new construction. Sometimes these values are only of a limited nature. Instead, there are other reasons. Here, obvious conflicts are built-in between environmental, cultural and landscape values and the need for community development, construction and development. It should be noted that the total area of cultural areas in Sweden is a fairly small part of the total area. The problem is that environments that have been attractive to people through millennia are still many. That is why the need for new solutions is urgent. There are strong reasons for identifying areas of attention, protection and careful development in order to be able to last in the future and be handed over to future generations. At the same time, the construction of attractive housing, modern infrastructure and productive land must not be hindered. Liberals are a technology- and development-friendly party. We believe that modern technology is an excellent way to reconcile conservation values with a strong need for development. Mr President, I would like to I call for the approval of reservation 6 and for a happy and restful Easter to be held by the President, the Presidium of Presidents, the Chamber and my committee colleagues.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1295	Mr President, I would like to We need culture. It gives us roots to our history, meaning in the present, visions for the future and opportunities to be part of a context. It is this holistic approach that underpins Christian Democratic cultural policy. The core and vitality of cultural expression cannot be weighed and measured in money and quantity. But it affects us, and we are part of it throughout our lives. It is important to take advantage of good traditions and customs that mark the course of the year and the changing seasons. Our holidays create a difference between everyday life and weekends. They hold together a society and are part of a kitt that creates a common culture, and around the Midsummer pole there is room for everyone who wants to be part of the dance. The word culture means cultivation. So there is a need for a nutritious breeding ground and a good framework for the culture and values on which previous generations have built our civilisation to grow and develop in the future. We who live today are on the shoulders of previous generations. We now have the confidence to develop and manage what we will eventually hand over to our children. They will then, in turn, stand on our shoulders and continue to develop and manage what we hand over to them, for we are all links that together form a long chain of human life. We are our civilization. It is important to manage the cultural heritage with care and good judgment. It is an obligation to future generations, so that they too can have vivid accounts of how previous generations lived and how history had its course. This applies to our museums, churches and homesteads, our cultural landscape and our urban environments, the physical things we can see and touch. This gentle approach applies equally to the so-called intangible cultural heritage – what we cannot see and take on, that is, our traditions and customs, our language and songs, our values and our views on ourselves and others. Mr President, I would like to For 1,000 years, Christianity's values have shaped Sweden. In southern Europe, its historical heritage is even longer. This cultural foundation of values and the ideal of enlightenment of later times are some of the sources of inspiration that our ancestors had in their struggle for freedom and independence, democracy and equality and which led to the kind of society we have today, a society that people in other parts of the world can only dream of. In times like this, when there are totalitarian ideologies who, with atrocities and acts of terror, want to harm our open and democratic society – we saw yesterday's appalling example of this from Brussels – it is all the more urgent to stick to the foundations of open democracy: the values that are part of our intangible cultural heritage. We need to be firmly equipped so that we can defend the values that guided previous generations in their fight for freedom, democracy and gender equality. In line with increased globalisation and travel around the world, we have also seen an increased interest in genealogy, a greater curiosity to seek its roots and its background in history. This can be seen as an expression of the need for a secure anchoring back in time in order to look forward and face the future with confidence. In reservation No 6 it says about our country's fantastic cultural heritage, which is well worth safeguarding, and about the challenge of reconciling the heritage with the demands of modern society. We in the Christian Democrats choose to support only this Alliance's reservation No 6, but of course we also support our other reservations. With this, Mr President, and the rest of the people in here, I would also like to wish you a restful Easter weekend.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1305	Mr President, I would like to The report now under discussion concerns issues of cultural heritage. A first thought could be that it concerns history – what has happened, objects and memories from generations before us, which we have inherited, managed and cared for. And that's partly right, but only partly. Cultural heritage is also about today and about the future. Cultural heritage is not a definite or static heritage. Cultural heritage changes depending on how we perceive it, how we interpret it. In turn, it plays a major role in how we pass on the inheritance, how the inheritance changes and reformulates. Cultural heritage, therefore, cannot really be frozen or forever decided, but it is mobile and alive. It is entirely up to every time to give it its own meaning. This is important. When I read history at school, we reacted to the drawing of many kings and noblemen. But in my class, there was no king or noble. What was clearly considered important for the history of our country, and of course also was, was at the same time very distant from us. Our cultural heritage was more complex than that. When the bourgeoisie began to dominate economy, politics and culture, their history was later written down. It could be corporate owners, utility cartridges or large scientists. They have also marked our cultural heritage. When the labour movement's interpretation of reality took place, the picture was supplemented. More perspectives were added, more experiences were taken into account and new light was cast on old truths. The same applies to women's movements. They made our perception of cultural heritage change and improve, and so did our attitude to the future. There are many examples, and we are getting better at understanding our heritage from more perspectives. These are often people who have lived under oppression and whose voices have not been heard. It can be about different cultural heritage or different perspectives on cultural heritage, multiculturalism and complex relationships. When it comes to history writing, art and culture have often gone ahead. It can be a work that stirs up debate, a perspective that provokes or perhaps just a few words that contain a whole world view that wants to be told. As we learn more and understand our own history and who we are better, we can take on the future with greater wisdom. Mr President, I would like to Cultural heritage is a matter of education. We shall all have access to the cultural heritage. Basically, it is a democratic issue – to be able to understand and change. Cultural heritage is also about being able to see the wealth of cultural heritage that exists. We have everything from handcrafted to veteran cars. We have cultural environments, in town and on land. There is also an intangible cultural heritage, including music, dance and storytelling. The breadth, variety and diversity of culture are very valuable. Our museums are places that testify to this breadth, variety and diversity. We can take the working life museums as an example. They tell us about life far from the fancy salons. Or we can take the S cow museum in Lycksele, which tells us about the forest as a living room, or why not the county museums. Many museums today receive local or regional financial funding with the support of the state through the cultural cooperation model. Then we have a number of state museums. And here the government has again realized something that existed before and that was very successful, namely free admission. As of 1 February, there is free admission at state museums. It's an initiative that's just about making it available. The collections that are in the state's possession and that are everyone's cultural heritage should also be free to participate in. There was a free entrance once before, introduced by the then Social Democratic government. The effects then were impressive. Public access grew by 159 per cent in one year. 58 per cent were first-time visitors. The share of low educational background increased. More children, young people and pensioners visited the museums. The share that came from outside the Stockholm region increased. Four out of five visitors were positive. But when the bourgeois government removed the free entrance in 2007, the opposite happened. The number of visitors dived. Now this government is once again investing in free entrance into state museums. This allows a whole family to go to museums and take part of their cultural heritage – regardless of the size of the wallet. It sends a signal that it is important, that it is our common assets and that cultural education is something that concerns us all. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal and reject all reservations.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1321	Mr President, I would like to It is a little extra inspiring to debate cultural heritage issues here tonight, after I have visited or perhaps inspected some different museums during the two days for a mission to appoint this year's museum. The museums, as several speakers have mentioned, are one of the foundations of the important work of preserving and nurturing our cultural heritage, strengthening our cultural identity, but in fact also questioning and reconsidering old truths. The latter perspective was very clear to me when I visited the Army Museum earlier today. The visitor to the Army Museum meets not only a collection of weapons from history and reports of war that Sweden has participated in. The visitor also meets John and Yoko and one gives peace a chance perspective. Can you do that, transform an old army museum, which originally had collections based on material from the Swedish Armed Forces, into more of a peace museum? Yes, of course you have to do it. That is why I would like to highlight two misunderstandings that I think are present in the debate on cultural heritage. Cultural heritage policy is clearly an area in which we have enormous ideological contradictions. One of these misunderstandings is that there would in some way be a contradiction between wanting to preserve and nurture cultural heritage on the one hand and having a free culture that today can grow unbridled in all possible directions, with artists who can operate completely independently of previous artists and traditions. I can exemplify how Haydn and Mozart felt in no way bound by Johann Sebastian Bachs's music. Had they felt the demand to continue in that tradition, there would have been only pastiches and copies. As an artist, one must of course be free to overturn previous values, try new ways, influence from outside and create a whole new culture. In this way, today's avant-garde can become tomorrow's cultural heritage. There is clearly a difference of view between different parties here. I am, of course, particularly opposed to the Swedish Democrats, who repeatedly point out how afraid they are of contemporary culture. Unfortunately, however, I must also turn to the Christian Democrats. I have debated this spring with the local councillor of the Christian Democrats in Uppsala, who has put forward the view that today's culture would in some way have a responsibility to safeguard traditional western values. I and the Green Party certainly do not share that view. I would like to ask the Christian Democrats here in Parliament: do you share such a view – that today's cultural workers and artists in some way have a responsibility to protect traditional Western values in the first place? Those who are safe in their cultural identity have no problem if you replace a word in the national anthem – that's all right. In fact, if you replace a word and it creates added value and it becomes even more beautiful and more inclusive, then it is something positive, something to applaud. Yet, a few weeks ago, when you did just that, so many were critical of the Melodi Festival replaced a word in the national anthem. Obviously, we need to work more actively on cultural heritage issues in order to create greater self-confidence. Perhaps it was then not so bad to reintroduce free entrance into our state museums – to provide opportunities for new groups to take part in the fantastic cultural heritage offering that exists in many of our museums. We have seen how the number of visitors has increased considerably in a short time. There is talk of 30 percent increase in the museums that now have free admission, and new groups are coming there. But other museums also have an increased number of visitors. The Vasa Museum, which does not have a free entrance, has an increased number of visitors. The Technical Museum, which does not have a free entrance, also receives an increased number of visitors. It may stimulate interest in museums, and it also frees up an economic space for those who want to visit museums to visit not just one museum but several. That was one misunderstanding. The second misunderstanding is that many see cultural heritage as something static. Sure, what's done is done and can't be reconsidered. But we never have the full picture. That is why we must constantly question and reconsider. Here I am a little surprised that it is above all against the Liberals that the debate must be conducted. Bengt Eliasson talks about the museums having an identity crisis today. I don't see an identity crisis, but I see a curiosity to embrace new findings and new research. Again I can exemplify with Johann Sebastian Bach. For 200 years it was absolutely true that Johann Sebastian Bach had written a fantastic mountain of music. But in the 1970s, music researchers began to question whether he had really composed all the music that was ascribed to him. When you studied the notes it was found that it is probably not so but that it is probably other composers who have written some of the works. This applies, for example, to T occata and fuga in d-moll, which many of my generation more feel as the signature melody to the children's program It was once. It turns out to be written by another composer. Recent findings show that Johann Sebastian Bachs's second wife, Anna Magdalena, may have written some of the works that have previously been attributed to Johann Sebastian. To talk again about music used in children's programs: The signature melody used in Beppe's good night time is such a work that may be written by Anna Magdalena Bach rather than Johann Sebastian. This is not just curiosity, something that is interesting to us music scientists. Why are there so few female composers today? Why is there such a low proportion of female composers? Well, probably because there are so few women who have been highlighted as role models throughout history – not because there have been no female composers but because they have been invisible throughout history. We should be clear that in every choice that is made, what is highlighted in our cultural heritage, is the other that is removed and made invisible. It is an enormous power that exists in our museums – what one chooses to highlight. I am also very happy and impressed by the amazing work that many museums are now doing to actually make visible what was previously invisible. It is also very impressive how many museums are now actively working to show how influences from all over the world have strengthened our indigenous culture. It is a work that we should continue politically to affirm, strengthen cultural heritage issues so that cultural heritage is more inclusive for more people, regardless of their background. I support the committee's proposal.
i-KDo1JcayCEPkeqLBGnibRD	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Niclas Malmberg, for an interesting speech. The Green Party sometimes seems afraid of cultural heritage. But love and respect for inheritance and memory bring peace and respect for collective mind. Generations left their mark on the singing of the future ours requires stewardship, understanding and trust – not denial. It is only by being secure in ourselves that our collective memory and identity can welcome new ones into the community. If, on the other hand, we are insecure, anxious and even cultural self-denial, we are making integration, participation and cohesion more difficult. Environmentalist members Annika Lillemet and Valter Mutt have written about such things as cultural heritage in a parliamentary movement. What we have inherited will be cared for and left behind in at least as good a condition as we got it. ..................................................... How do you do that? The reader bursts with curiosity. What are the forward-looking efforts of the Green Party? What do they want to do to meet the lack of cultural heritage expertise outside customs? What do they want to do about a neglected cultural environment and other things that the industry in contact with us politicians testifies to? Needs exist. The list can be made long. But the Green Party seems to be ducking. What is Niclas Malmberg's answer to all the questions?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1342	Mr President, I would like to My answer is that the Red-Green Government is now actually working on the first cultural heritage bill ever. Aron Emilsson said earlier in his speech that the Green Party would somehow lack a cultural heritage policy. That is a very strange statement when, at the same time, we are sitting in a government that is drawing up the first cultural heritage bill ever. The government is also looking at whether it is possible to define more clearly the responsibility for cultural heritage issues in the cultural cooperation model. That's another answer. But there is an ideological difference between our perspectives on cultural heritage that it is wonderful that we can debate. When has there been an original Swedish culture that has not been characterized by outside influences? When you listen to Aron Emilsson it sounds as if there has been something original Swedish during a time when there was an original Swedish culture that was isolated and not influenced by outside influences. All archaeological excavations, on the other hand, show that we have always been influenced from the outside world. Even before the Viking era, Sweden lived in connection with other cultures and was influenced by other cultures. Can the Swedish Democrats even highlight a single cultural phenomenon that is thoroughly Swedish and is not influenced by the outside world? I would argue that the entire rhetoric of the Swedish democrats and the whole view of cultural heritage are based on ignorance.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1348	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by advising the Green Party and Niclas Malmberg to study cultural heritage studies on a global, national, regional and local basis. There are many good university educations. I have attended one myself and have some understanding of the questions. We have probably never argued, especially not me, that there would be some kind of static and petrified Swedish culture that has never inoculated impressions from outside – quite the opposite. Culture is cultivation – an organic process. I mentioned it from the speaker's seat, if Niclas Malmberg listened. It is claimed that the government does not lack a cultural heritage policy. Nevertheless, the first cultural heritage policy bill is now being drafted. In the Riksdag, I have not been able to find much of the reforms, initiatives and increased ambitions for cultural heritage in recent years – quite the opposite. The Green Party attacks as usual straw dolls. You hold up someone next to you who talks about some kind of petrified Swedish that can never be changed. We've never had an opinion that way. However, we recognise a unique cultural heritage that exists in Sweden, just as we recognise other countries' unique cultural heritage that exists in other parts of the world. It is general basic knowledge, but it can also be immersed in social anthropology, ethnology and some other scientific disciplines. Let me ask you this: why is it not simply that our cultural heritage institutions are given greater opportunities to serve as a forum for caring for, displaying and conveying cultural heritage? Or should peoples' education take on that role if Sweden's museums are to dump the heritage and act as a study association, as it sometimes sounds like with the Environmental Party? If so, do you agree with the consequences?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1353	Mr President, I would like to Aron Emilsson's criticism of the lack of cultural heritage policy must be directed at the former alliance government, which in its time has not been able to create it. The current red-green government is working out the first cultural heritage policy bill ever. This is something that Aron Emilsson should be satisfied with coming. But I am convinced that we have great ideological differences as to what it should contain. At the same time, we know that although the Swedish Democrats are investing in cultural heritage issues in their draft budget, it is at the expense of contemporary culture. That is why in my opening speech I pointed out that the Swedish Democrats seem to see a contradiction between here. They want to invest in cultural heritage issues, but they want to completely mutilate contemporary culture based on some kind of fear that the cultural heritage they want to preserve will change. Aron Emilsson has not said that, but some of the ideologists who have existed as inspirationals for the whole movement that the Swedish democrats have emerged from have really spoken in such terms. The book Jazzen attacks Erik Walle from 1946 says: Jazz is created by drunk Negroes in brothel environment. This is the rhetoric that the Swedish democrats have as their basis. Aron Emilsson gives me advice. I want to give you a piece of advice, Aron Emilsson. Now there is free entrance at the state museums. Use it! Visit the museums, take part of the cultural heritage and see the amazing work that the museums are now actually doing.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1359	Mr President, I would like to The report we are debating now concerns an area that is close to our heart. We must therefore not forget that our cultural heritage is a memory of our ancestors, of whom we should all be proud. It is a memory that they have preserved, transformed and passed on to the society and traditions that we have grown up with, chosen and chose to pass on to future generations. In addition to being a traditional heritage, this is very much also a historical heritage that we must all dare to stand up for and be proud of. Not wanting to focus on and highlight how it used to be has meant that many people don't even know how it used to be– how we lived, our history and where our traditions came from. It is important for the unity of a nation that its citizens know their belonging to a common identity and understand what has built and built this identity. Church cultural monuments form the largest part of the material Swedish cultural heritage. The strained economic situation of many dioceses and parishes, combined with the increased threat of organised crime that has specialized in stealing our Christian cultural treasures, has also resulted in reduced openness in many of the country's churches and thus reduced access to Christian cultural heritage. We Swedish democrats believe that there is a need for an institution that brings together the most valuable parts of the national Christian cultural heritage. Therefore, the government should investigate the possibilities of establishing a national church history museum in collaboration with the Swedish Church. The 2006 Multicultural Year was announced by the Social Democratic Government with the primary aim of paying attention to and paying tribute to the existence of foreign cultures and identities in Sweden. A large number of authorities, institutions, foundations and companies in the field of culture as well as certain universities and colleges and Swedish embassies abroad were assigned to participate. All Swedish municipalities, county councils, regions, county boards, certain authorities, other universities and colleges, performing arts institutions, regional museums, libraries, archival institutions, festivals and other actors were also invited to participate. The list, as you can hear, is long. We Swedish democrats believe that it might be appropriate to focus on the cultural area in a similar way and revitalise the debate on cultural heritage policy by regrouping public Sweden around a thematic year of cultural heritage policy, and we therefore propose that the Riksdag announce to the Government its view that 2020 will be designated as a Swedish cultural heritage year with the primary aim of strengthening the common national identity and to pay attention to and pay tribute to various aspects of traditional popular culture. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, of course, I support all our reservations, but for time to come, I only support reservations 8 and 10. With this, Mr President, I wish you and your family, as well as the rest of you here, happy Easter.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1366	Mr President, I would like to We shall now discuss the AU7 report on labour law. I shall begin by saying that I support all our reservations, but that for time winning I only support Moderate's reservation No. 2 on first job employment and alliance reservation No. 6 on secondment and social protocol. The labour law framework is the basis for Swedish working life, but labour law is also a classic conflict in Swedish politics. We have a slightly different view of how the labour market works best. In the AU7, there are 86 motion requests and 24 reservations, which show that there is great interest from Members of Parliament in this matter. The main focus of the Riksdag and the Government should be that we must create the conditions for more jobs. We need to make it easier and cheaper to hire, and we should not complicate the current rules. A good balance is necessary. We shall have a safe working life with strong protection for employees, and at the same time we shall be able to cope with increased demands for flexibility and mobility, to lower the thresholds into the labour market and to create a competitive business environment. In Sweden we have the Swedish model, where the social partners determine wages and certain conditions at the workplace. Together with our legislation, this forms the Swedish labour market model, and we are the Moderates behind it. In large parts, the parties in this House are in agreement, but there are areas where opinions differ. We want to continue to lower thresholds into the labour market. We want to make it easier for people to get their first job. We want to increase the flexibility for employers to be able to employ when the needs are there. Modern working life requires greater mobility, much more than in the old industrial society. Yet our regulatory framework is more adapted to the working life of old times. Today it is much more about services of various kinds and about rapid adaptation to labour needs. However, it is also about the huge challenge that Sweden faces when it comes to all the newcomers to Sweden who are to be integrated into the Swedish labour market. Within a couple of years, several hundred thousand who have come to us in recent years will enter the labour market. Then we mean that you have to dare try everything to find more ways in. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have therefore proposed a new form of employment: first job employment. It applies to young and foreign born. It is a temporary employment with certain training elements, where collective agreements are not required. You should receive salary for up to 60 per cent of the work, and the rest of the time should be training according to a written agreement between the employer and the employee. We mean it has to be simple. What we have learned is that the more complicated a system is, the fewer people get into work. This is the red-green against. They don't think it's necessary. It may seem a little strange given that the gap in working life is growing between the natives and the foreigns. It has been shown that only 25% of foreign-born people have a full-time job after ten years. It may take up to ten years before half of this group is in work, which is far too long. There are far too many obstacles along the way. There is a rigidity and an attitude we need to change both in employers and in unions. Employers are usually afraid of those who are a little different, and unions only look after those who have jobs – their members – and not those who are without jobs. More employers must be encouraged to dare to try someone new or inexperienced. We believe that this could be a road to increased labour force participation. Likewise, an extended probationary period, to twelve months, can be another opportunity for many to really show their worth. During our reign, we introduced a general fixed term of two years. It has become a successful gateway for many new and young people into the labour market. We introduced new start jobs, which have become a really big success, but also entry-level jobs for new arrivals. It is a very advantageous form of employment. We are always prepared to rethink and renew our policy of opening up to more people to get a real job. The present government should also be. Another real issue is the conditions of foreign workers and companies on the Swedish labour market. We all remember the Laval case and all the tours we've had with posting teams, lex Laval, investigations and other things. For greater mobility of both goods and services and better competition for Swedish customers, we do not want to build more barriers or make them higher, and we do not want to increase the requirements for those who come here. It is important to stress that everyone at a Swedish workplace should of course have the right conditions. However, the demands that are now being raised are in danger of building new barriers. It should be safe and secure, but we should not impair intra-EU mobility in terms of the workforce. The fact is that there are already good working conditions for those who come to Sweden and work within the current legislation. The Postings Act has rules that ensure the extra protection needed for those posted, in addition to the protection they actually bring with them from home. The concerns about social dumping and social tourism have also proved to be completely wrong. If you want to improve posted workers' conditions in Sweden, it is therefore much better to actually tighten up the application and control of current laws and regulations. The new rules of the so-called Enforcement Directive have barely come into force yet, and yet the government wants to open up to the amendment of the Posting of Workers Directive. We're against that. For example, many hundreds of thousands of new homes have to be built in Sweden, but there are actually not enough construction workers here. There is hardly a single available construction worker to find in Sweden. So it is necessary that both companies and workers from other countries come to us in order for us to do this. Unfortunately, we mean, the government goes completely LO's business. LO wants to keep the foreign labour force quite far away from Sweden, in order to reduce competition and not threaten the good salary image Swedish construction workers have in an international comparison. We believe that increased mobility for both workers and entrepreneurs creates opportunities for everyone, both for those who come here and for Swedish growth and development. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to wish the members of the committee, the President and the others both in this office and in our own office a very happy Easter.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1379	Mr President, I would like to We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 8 and 10. Mr President, I would like to Involuntaryly shared tours affect women in health care and social care in particular. A work situation where the working day is divided into, for example, a morning and an evening session, with several hours of leave in the middle of the day, is extremely stressful for the vast majority of people. The possibilities of getting the puzzle of life together, being able to leave and pick up kindergartens and otherwise having a functioning social life are often thrown into ruins by municipalities' inability to plan their employees effectively. Many are the ones who talk about shared tours as a problem, but not much seems to be done about it. The confession of lips is no longer enough, Mr President. Now we Swedish democrats want the government to come back as soon as possible with proposals on how to abolish the shared tours in the public sector. Another recurring problem in the public sector is involuntary part-time employment. They are partly due to the same thing, i.e. unwillingness and inability to plan their staff effectively, but also to limited financial resources. Involuntary part-time employment also affects women to a large extent. Not least health care and care are screaming for more staff. The reports hail on current and future recruitment problems in health care. At the same time, only by offering involuntary part-time workers who want full-time jobs, with our proposal put forward in our budget, could we create up to 25 000 full-year working hours directly into Swedish care. This would be done with staff that already exist. These are people who are already educated and want a job where they can live on their wages. We in the Swedish Democrats have, in a succession of years in our budget motion, set aside money for an incentive grant to those municipalities that offer full-time to those part-time employees who want to work full-time. If this does not prove to be enough, however, we are prepared to go the legislative way to change the situation. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, we want to give parents the opportunity to voluntarily go down to 50% part-time from today's 75% during the first eight years of their child's life. The aim is to give parents more opportunity to be involved in their child's development and upbringing. The Swedish Democrats believe that this opportunity is important from both the parents' and the child's perspective. The problem of holiday-closed preschools has the effect that many parents alternate their holidays in order to cope with everyday life but also to avoid on-call preschools or other forms of temporary childcare. Children need continuity and security in their development, and leaving children in new environments and with new staff feels difficult for many parents, not least during holiday periods. As a result, the family is often given limited time together during the holiday. That is why we want to introduce a statutory right to what we want to call preschool days. It is a statutory right to take leave of absence five days a year when preschool is closed in summer. Of course, it is entirely voluntary, and it is aimed at parents with pre-school children. Mr President, I would like to With regard to Moderates' moves to extend the period of entitlement to leave from six months to one year in order to start a business, we are in favour of the moderate reservation. We need more companies in Sweden. We need more entrepreneurs in Sweden, and we need conditions that allow more people to leave a seemingly secure job to take the step of starting and running a business. The proposal to extend leave is in the right and positive direction, and we agree with the moderates in this case. Before closing this somewhat shortened speech, I would like to take this opportunity to wish Mr President and the President's Bureau a happy Easter. I also wish my colleagues, Members and staff in the committee a happy and pleasant Easter. I'll see you after the week.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1391	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Center Party's reservation No 1 and the alliance joint reservation No 6. Of course, we support all the reservations, but I only ask for their approval for time-winning. We are debating today a motion report on labour law. It is about labour market rights. We have a large group of people who today do not have a job and therefore do not have all the means to obtain the rights that will be guaranteed a job. We are talking about the young and the long-term unemployed, but also about the large group of newcomers. In order for them to enter the labour market better, we need to lower the thresholds in different ways. We need to make it easier to get in on both legal rules and the costs of hiring and running businesses for people so that more people dare to take the step and get the chance to enter the labour market. It is also important in a labour market that there are companies that can, want and dare to hire more people. That is the basis for us to have more jobs, more people in work, but also more tax revenue so that we can make more investment on the part of the state. It is when new jobs are created that you lay the foundation for reduced exclusion. It is an important picture to have with you even when we are debating labour law rules. On behalf of the Center Party, we have a reservation, which I supported, for a more flexible labour market. Basically, we want to see changes in order to increase flexibility so that there is more mobility and more people can enter the labour market. Among other things, we have proposals to change the order of order which today says last in first out. This means that young newcomers who still have a chance to enter the labour market are the ones who can go first if the company needs to resign, even if they have the highest level of competence. The changes in labour law rules and, in particular, the rotation rules are mainly for those people who are already in the labour market. When people who have a long work experience are thinking about changing jobs from a place where they have been for a long time, they end up on the rotation list changing companies. They can only go if the company starts to resign even if they have extensive experience and expertise. It is extremely important to increase precisely the flexibility of the labour market. Today, one out of every four people is unhappy with their work. We need to make it easier for people to switch and also for new people to come in. It is also about other parts more linked to education, and so on. We also want to make a number of other changes. Together with the Alliance, we have a reservation about probationary contracts and the opportunity for people to get their first job. Being able to show off on the labour market of an employer is extremely important in order to get the chance. Greater mobility is needed both in Sweden and within Europe linked to the labour market. It will be necessary if we are to get more people to work. We are already seeing in Europe today that we have a poor match where many jobs in demand cannot be filled because employers cannot be matched with the skills they demand. This makes the Posting of Workers Directive, which is included in one of the alliance reservations, extremely important. We need to increase and above all safeguard the free movement of workers and not just products. It is through increased mobility that we create growth and can get the jobs that are needed. Mr President, I would like to In the motion report we also have a reservation on the right to full time. Given the high tone that has been heard from the government parties in the electoral movement on this issue, I look forward with excitement to what will be presented during the parliamentary term but also in the debate this evening. It is a great challenge when we see that women earn less than men. This is particularly true of women in the public sector. There we politicians in municipalities and county councils can actually look at ourselves. It is mainly in the public sector that there is a lot of part-time work and where it is put in a system. There, politics needs to be improved even better. We would like to call on the social partners to take a stronger approach to this. When it comes to the public sector, it is our colleagues in municipalities and county councils who in different ways can do so. There are functioning systems in many municipalities where it is done in a fairly successful way and where it is built from below. As a center party, I think it's fantastic when the system is built from below. But it's important that there's more to it. This is a very important issue, particularly in relation to pensions, in order to achieve more equal pensions and a more equal pay for life. It is extremely important that we have fewer poor pensioners and that people have the opportunity to work as much as they want. I will conclude with that and thank you very much for the floor. I wish both the President and my committee colleagues a happy Easter.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1407	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about labour law and the motions that concern the theme of general exercise. Wage work is of fundamental importance to most people's everyday lives and well-being. Therefore, our lives are very much affected by the rights and obligations that exist in the employment relationship, what standards apply and what influence you have over your work in different situations. What is happening in the labour market also has a tangible impact on society as a whole. In a society that wants to be characterised by individual autonomy and respectful relationships between people, it is important to have working conditions that are characterised by efficiency and flexibility rather than uncertainty and arbitrariness. Well-functioning industrial relations are also very important in order to achieve a nutritional structure characterised by productivity and innovation. It is better for our society if many people's abilities are exploited in practice and if people can grow in working life. It requires basic security and therefore protection against arbitrariness. Safe people dare more in words and deeds. Anyone who does not have to worry all the time, does not always have to be on guard at work and does not have to engage in competing with their colleagues in every situation can also better deepen their knowledge and skills, cooperate with others and not least come home from work more as a whole person and a citizen of society. Of course, what conditions look like in workplaces throughout society is not something that is in detail clubbed by the Riksdag. It is something that is emerging and that changes through long and complex draft struggles – someone might say class struggle, and that would then be a pretty good description. In any case, labour law is part of this, and not an unimportant part. Now the Swedish labour market model is characterized by the state having a receding role and that there is a very large amount of freedom for organised parties to sign agreements on large and small things. That's how you can get a lot of dynamism and a lot of security at the same time. Contractual solutions can adapt the conditions to a reality that is both multifaceted and changing. At the same time, the law sets the framework within which collective agreements are signed, and when reality changes, the law must also keep up – partly because there are problems that should not be agreed upon, partly because, not least after Sweden's accession to the EU, there are laws that make it difficult to sign reasonable collective agreements. Addressing these shortcomings can strengthen the role and legitimacy of collective agreements. This, Mr President, is the background to the many motions and proposals tabled by the Left Party. We see that it is important to strengthen labour law and the Swedish model. That is why we also have a number of reservations, because the committee has not wanted to make those improvements. However, one of the most pressing issues of labour law today is not included in this report, namely the issue of fixed-term employment and general fixed-term employment. This is because these movements were recently dealt with together with a government bill. In this context, I should like to remind you briefly that the general time limit gives the employer too broad an opportunity for discretion. The Left Party will continue to work towards the abolition of the general fixed-term provision for objective criteria to be specified by the employer upon withdrawal of the rule of permanent employment. I have also stated this in a specific opinion in the report. Mr President, I would like to One area where there is a clear need to modernise labour law is the issue of temporary agency work. In the early 1990s, when the agency was opened up, the argument was that they would respond to in principle two situations, on the one hand the need for special expertise, rather like consulting, and on the other hand the need to manage peak work. What we are seeing today is that these two motives have fallen into shadow. Instead, renting is used to cover staff needs that are in principle permanent. This is not a good development. Temporary workers are in a vulnerable position, find it more difficult to be part of the work community and are less willing to make demands on their work environment. At the same time, threats of replacing permanent staff with temporary staff can be used as a means of power in the employer's hands. That is why we believe that there is a need for clearer regulation of staffing activities. We have a number of concrete proposals on this. The use of rentals should not be allowed to meet permanent needs. It is true that trade unions are trying to arrange this in different ways, but it should not be something for which you have to sell pay space. This is about the basic structure of our labour market. We also want to see a strengthening of trade union influence on the issue of renting-in. Among other things, the absence of collective agreements in itself should be sufficient for trade union veto rights against renting. In the same spirit, workers and trade unions who sign contracts must be given the right to take part, on request, in the work contracts of temporary agencies. One peculiarity which is currently present in the labour market and which should be regulated more clearly is that companies set up their own temporary agencies to hire staff to themselves. Maybe it looks like it's another company in the same group. This is pointed out in a motion that actually comes from the Social Democrats. We have called for it to be approved, but unfortunately the government does not want to go ahead with it. Mr President, I would like to One area where there are problems that legislation should be better able to cover is that of some public procurement. It happens as closely today, for example when public transport in a county is changing entrepreneurs, that you quit the employees and they are forced to look for their jobs. This creates a great deal of uncertainty and also a risk that employees will be afraid to take on trade union assignments, for example, or otherwise raise their voices against the employer, as it may lead to them losing their job in the next procurement. This is a concrete problem that exists around the country. It is something that can also put pressure on wages and working conditions, because it will be more difficult to win contracts if there are more people who have worked up higher wages and better conditions. It's not good that it works that way. The legislation in this area should be reviewed. Even bus drivers and others who work with publicly funded activities that are procured at regular intervals should be given better protection, we think. In the report, the Left Party also has a reservation on the posting of workers, social protocols and more. These issues are topical all the time, but they have been brought up to date now in March, when there have been some proposals from the Commission for a revision of the directive. The Left Party welcomes the government's efforts to bring about a revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. The government has carried out a good and strong advocacy work towards the Commission, and the preliminary results that came on 8 March were better than expected on several issues that are important for the functioning of the Swedish labour market. But it is also important to point out that this is not something that makes it peace and joy. Even though there are openings for the Swedish model of agreement to do better, there is, for example, strong criticism from the European union, which in many places sees great difficulties in maintaining equal pay for equal work. Although it seems that one should be able to go beyond the minimum wage when seeking equal treatment, it is still rather unclear what should be included in the benefits compared to each other. It is also unclear how some time limits should be dealt with, which can lead to very large groups of posted workers not being hit by any improvements. In addition, this should be bumped and wet in a long process where it is very difficult to know anything about the end result. This problem is very fundamental. It derives from the fact that social and trade union rights are de facto subordinate to EU law. This means that we are constantly getting this kind of ambiguities. We get a law that constantly chafes against the Swedish model, and not only against the Swedish model. For example, following the Laval ruling, we saw that EU conflict rules also undermine international treaty commitments on free strike rights. That is why social and trade union rights need to be given a kind of constitutional status. The Left Party therefore believes that the Government should have a clearer stated goal from the Riksdag to bring to a social protocol which states that fundamental trade union rights, such as free bargaining and conflict law and the right to freely sign collective agreements, should apply within the Union and should not be subordinated to financial interests. In this context, I note that the previous government parties have a reservation in the opposite direction. It's quite remarkable. During their government years, the representatives of these parties claimed what they also write in the first sentence of their reservation: That's fun. But the reservation is that these parties are opposed to the government trying to influence the Posting of Workers Directive so that it works better with the Swedish model. This is quite revealing to the line taken by the previous government, despite the solemn speeches, in practice towards the EU on these issues. And it is quite clear that opposition continues to hope that EU law can be used as a pretext to weaken the Swedish model, undermine the trade union movement and counteract the work to get equal pay for equal work in Sweden. Representatives of the alliance parties have called for this reservation to be approved. On the Left side, we will vote against the reservation in this vote and on the committee's proposal. Mr President, I would like to Otherwise, the proposals of the previous government parties are also remarkable. Among other things, there are proposals to double the length of the probationary period. Here, then, we have four parties who believe that a lot of employers are unable to assess, after six months, whether a person is able to carry out his or her work at all. That's pretty unreasonable. But it is clear that this is not how it will be in practice, but what you want is to double the scope for uncertainty and arbitrariness. In different combinations, the parties also attack the basis of employment protection and also the law of trade union conflict. There are many funny euphemisms in this context. Liberals, for example, want to change the order rules in the LAS so that they are based on the individual's competence. But it is the case today that the rules of rotation in the event of dismissal require that the person who is to remain has sufficient qualifications. Otherwise, if you want the employer to make an arbitrary assessment of the individual's competence – rank – it is entirely tantamount to saying that there should be no protection in the Employment Protection Act. The point of the order of business rules is that they should offer some protection against arbitrariness in connection with dismissal. The parties also talk about the principle of proportionality in the event of conflicts. This clearly means that we want to cut off trade union rights, which are crucial for a modern and free labour market model. The relationship between employees and employers is always and by definition uneven in favour of the employer. If workers are to be able to weigh this up to some degree, collective organisations and the possibility of solidarising with each other are required. These are the rights that the bourgeois parties instinctively want to pursue. You just don't like organized workers. Sometimes this comes out particularly clearly, including when you want to restrict the right to strike. The fact that Sweden has very few actual days of conflict in international comparison does not entirely affect the right-wing parties' desire to discipline the workers' organisations. There are few things that are more important to maintaining a well-functioning and modern welfare society than to repel that kind of retrograde and essentially authoritarian impulses. To conclude, Mr President, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Left Party, but for time, I would like to support two of them, namely reservation No 4 and reservation No 18. Happy Easter!
i-SYZQUb9genXAKogANeThDa	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 6 and of reservation No 20. One reservation is a joint alliance reservation, and the other is one of the Liberals' reservations. It is important for Sweden that more people work, that we create new jobs in our country. But it is also important that everyone who has a job to go to also likes the work, that you develop and grow as an individual. We are living longer and the working life of many people in Sweden today is longer than four decades. We easily forget it, but our life is long-- often longer than we think. As society as a whole develops, our workplaces and working conditions also change. Jobs disappear, new jobs are created, new industries are created and others disappear. Technical achievements and new innovations can improve our health, work environment and well-being. Mr President, I would like to For us in the Liberals, the individual person and the individual worker are the most important. Humans are unique. We all have our dreams, our ideas and our visions. Our lives don't look the same. This also means that there must be diversity, variety and flexibility in the labour market. In this context, there are two challenges, or problems, in the labour market that we in the Liberals have addressed in Parliament and which we also address in our two reservations in the report. One challenge is that there are many older – or year-rich – who are a better name – who want to continue working for a few more years after turning 65. Unfortunately, however, the attitude towards older workers has deteriorated in Sweden over the last ten years. For us in the Liberals, it is important to take advantage of those who want and can continue working in the workplace. A first step is to raise the age limit for the right to remain in work to 69 years. The Riksdag should also support and announce this to the Government. The second area concerns the rules of rotation. Today's regulations provide a company with good opportunities to adapt the size of the workforce in the event of a shortage of work relatively quickly. However, the possibility of retaining the necessary key personnel or those with the best skills is small if it is not possible to enter into special arrangements with the union. Many entrepreneurs testify that strict labour law discourages them from hiring. This leads to high thresholds for those who have not gained a foothold in the labour market, often young people and immigrants. The rules of order also mean that these groups are often the last to be employed and thus those who end up only in the event of a shortage of work. The pay-as-you-go rules also lock on to existing work at the expense of labour market matching mechanisms, wage developments and personal development. From the Liberals' side, we therefore want to replace today's rules of rotation with rules based on the individual's competence.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1440	Mr President, I would like to I guess a lot of people want to come home, but we should all say something anyway. No, there are many who long to remain. That's great. Mr President, I would like to I will begin by of course supporting all our requests, but for time winning I agree with reservation No 21, our own reservation, as well as the alliance joint reservation No 6. The report we are debating today is based on a large number of motions relating to the field of labour law. The social partners solve many issues through collective agreements. Where the law does not apply, it allows flexibility on the basis of what the social partners come up with in common. This means, of course, that there are few strike days in Sweden, which is positive for our companies and for Sweden's economy. We Christian Democrats believe that it is important to strive for good job security for all employees. Having a job means a lot to the individual. It gives people the feeling of feeling needed a and requested e, and it provides income and quality of life. For employers, it is important to have employees who are happy at work, but they also need a degree of flexibility in forms of employment depending on the tasks to be carried out. That is why there is currently some flexibility in the law on different forms of employment. It is permanent employment, fixed-term employment, seasonal employment and so on. In the EU, it is often said that the labour market today needs flexicurity, i.e. security for the worker and flexibility for the employer. Legislation should try to contribute to this, taking into account the needs of both workers and employers. Mr President, I would like to We need increased entrepreneurship, and we need investment in innovation in order for new jobs to emerge when others disappear. We need a growing economy so that everyone who can and wants to work can do so. We need a good education system that equips people for the future labour market. We also need to ensure that those offering employment quickly find the right workforce, i.e. that the matching function works effectively. Here we need an employment service that is more efficient than it is today to help in the matching function. Under the alliance government, employment increased by over 300 000 new jobs. Many of these new jobs went to new arrivals. But now we see with last year's large influx of refugees that we need to find even more jobs. It's supposed to be jobs matching those who've come here, high and low-skilled. It must be faster than today for newcomers to get a job. The statistics I have been looking at show that after 15 years in Sweden, 30 percent of the foreign-born unemployed are still unemployed. The fact that the labour market is taking so long is not sustainable for either the individual or society. Of course, people who do not even have upper secondary education are the most difficult. That is why we Christian Democrats have proposed a system of introductory positions in which people should be able to learn the job at work with a lower starting salary during the learning period. This is not just the case for new arrivals, but perhaps it is particularly beneficial for this group. They need to get one foot into the labour market without any previous references. We believe that 75% of collective wage can be started, and 25% can be training time. So we do not go in and deal with collective agreements, but we continue to deal with them. In addition, it can be said that employment security can be absorbed, just like everyone else, if we have such a system. It will be a new form of employment, but with similar regulations as for other forms of employment. There is no need for decisions from Arbetsförmedlingen, and we avoid a lot of administrative and regulatory problems. Mr President, I would like to In the context of the economic crisis, companies need to be able to adapt well. A missing order can, with a pen stroke, put an otherwise expanding and profitable company in crisis. Companies must be able to reset and retain key employees in the event of changes in the company's conditions. Otherwise, the lack of flexibility is a reason for many companies to hesitate to hire when the prospects are brighter. In a globalised world, we must promote a more flexible working life. Companies need more opportunities to make exceptions to the rules of rotation, we believe. The current derogation applies to two persons in companies with up to 10 employees. We think that would have to be extended to an exception for four. In the conversations we have had with various entrepreneurs, especially in smaller companies that cannot afford to hire HR specialists or lawyers in transition periods, many have said that they would feel more satisfied with the possibility of exempting four people. Mr President, I would like to We believe that prioritising the renegotiation of the Posting of Workers Directive, unlike the committee and the government, is the wrong way to go. Moreover, it was the Social Democrats themselves who were first involved in adopting the Posting of Workers Directive in 1996 and then introduced it into Swedish law in 1999. A large number of EU countries have labour market models that differ significantly from ours. Opening up the Posting of Workers Directive risks leading to deterioration. In order to improve the conditions for posted workers, it is better to tighten up the application and control of the current rules at both EU and national level. We believe that the priority must be first to get the new rules of the implementing directive in place, but with the 40 adjustments to Swedish conditions that are possible under the directive. Moreover, Mr President, we Christian Democrats have tabled motions to extend the scope for leave to parental leave as well. We want to extend the right for parents to be free full time until the child turns three. We also want to make it easier for relatives to reconcile family care with work, something that the Swedish National Audit Office has recommended to the government to consider, through changes in social security systems but also in labour market legislation. Unfortunately, the majority of committees reject these two proposals. To conclude, I would just like to reflect on what the representative of the Left Party said here earlier. The Social Democrats have cheered over the EU proposal on the Posting of Workers Directive, while the Left Party has reserved for reservation 7 because it thinks it is a bad proposal. I do not know if you have different views on the proposal for posting that has come from the European Commission. In addition, the Left Party has reserved – apparently against the government parties – for the introduction of a social protocol. It seems that the Social Democrats are not pushing this issue sufficiently. It is said in the media, but obviously the Left Party even needs reservations. One wonders here in opposition how it really is about cooperation on labour law.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1462	Mr President, I would like to Maybe I should start with what Désirée Pethrus brought up at the end. After all, I spent almost disproportionate time describing the Left Party's position and why we think there is reason to move forward and not settle down with what is now going on on these issues. This is also evident from our reservation text. But it is also very remarkable, what the previous government parties have reserved for. We shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal. That's what I was going to bring up. It is a bit funny that the Christian Democrats also now agree with a common reservation that it is stupid to try to improve the Posting of Workers Directive so that it fits better with the Swedish model. When you were in government, you said that this was very important, but unfortunately your hands were tied by the EU. Now that it actually happens, you're negative about it. I wonder what's behind it. I also think that this is about what kind of country Sweden should be in EU cooperation. Should Sweden be a country that protects its own labour market model? Do the Christian Democrats think so? Why, then, has this reservation been made? Do the Christian Democrats think that Sweden should be a country that stands up for workers to be protected when they move across borders? Why, then, has this reservation been supported? This is an opportune time to try to sort this out.
i-RwKFHm5UpAa9TjoEEqWmvj	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the question. A little short and simplified, we think that the Posting of Workers Directive as it has been has had its advantages. It's very clear that you don't get paid dumping. We must not go below the lowest collective agreement that exists in various areas. There was quite a lot in the Posting of Workers Directive that turned out to be quite clear once it was interpreted and applied. The problem was that there was a union that did not really want to adapt to the Posting of Workers Directive. It was Building, and it made us get lex Laval. I think we have a posting directive that goes in to protect workers. We want mobility between different labour markets. We do not want to impose the Swedish model on everyone else, but we want to be able to retain our labour market model. We will then have to adapt to the Posting of Workers Directive by requiring everyone to report the lowest collective agreement to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Building hasn't wanted to do that for a very long time. It's caused a problem. Then we have said that we are in favour of trying to do this implementing directive. It should be applied properly, but it has not even got to work. And now you want to open up to further changes. As I said, we are afraid that it will rather put away the legs of the Swedish model.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1474	Mr President, I would like to That was a remarkable answer, may I say. Mrs Pethrus said that the directive has been clear about the fact that wage dumping is not allowed. I think a lot of people would say that it is clear that wages have been lost. It's kind of louder. This is an issue that has mobilized the labour movement throughout Europe. The major problems with this have been pointed out, and articles and books have been written from a legal perspective. It is a bit special that the Christian Democrats believe that this is all about Building in Sweden, that it is they who have been a bit stupid. It's a bit of a new angle of approach, but it's also a strange angle of approach. I do not think that is the opinion of the European Union. I do not think that the many parties, organisations and social movements involved in these issues think that it is only Building's misconception that has created the problems with the directive. They say in the reservation and now Pethrus also say that they are afraid that opening this up could lead to deterioration. There are always such risks, but it would be interesting to hear how you view what has actually come. After the Swedish Government's pressure in the last turn, for example, it is quite clear that one can use the model that exists in Sv erige alongside what exists in other places with a universal declaration and so on. It also goes on to extend what is to be compared from the minimum wage to something broader, somewhat unclear exactly what. How do the Christian Democrats view this in concrete terms? Is that bad? Is it bad that this kind of clarification has been made in favour of the Swedish model? If the Christian Democrats think so, what is the point of saying that they support the Swedish model?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1479	Mr President, I would like to When we received a presentation from the department the other day, I did not think that the answers to my questions made it clearer what should apply. One could not answer what the word is supposed to stand for. Does this mean that we should have several hundred collective agreements registered for foreign companies to keep track of? We need to be clear about what will apply. It's an extremely complicated team matter, you might say. When, under the alliance government, we made changes and clarified the legislation, my experience of how to describe the hard core and the word public was that we in Sweden have the right to argue that no one who comes here can go under the lowest collective agreement. If you do that, the union can intervene. Does the Left Party mean, then, that the lowest collective agreement is wage dumping? I can't answer for that. I do not see it that way, because it is a collective agreement. EU law therefore says that no one can go under the lowest collective agreement. Well, then you haven't been paid for it, have you? The talk about wage dumping is a rhetorical fine thing that the Left is trying to do. Mr President, I would like to We have a Europe that is trying to protect workers, but of course it is also the idea that we should be able to retain our model. As I said earlier, if we open up more, it risks becoming more complicated than it is today for entrepreneurs who want to move freely within the EU, unfortunately.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1483	Mr President, I would like to As the last speaker on this relatively late evening in the House of Parliament, I wanted to talk for a moment about the Employment Committee's report No. 7, which deals with labour law. If there is still anyone in this country who does not believe that there are differences between the parties in the Swedish Parliament, I say: Obey now! In this matter, there is a deep and sharp dividing line in Swedish politics. It's a question about your everyday life. It is about human vision, life value and decency. It is about who should have fundamental rights and who should not have them. It is about our rights in working life – labour law. When we talk about labour law and employment protection, there are always a number of bourgeois politicians who literally see red. For them, employment protection is an obstacle for entrepreneurs to choose their staff. That's kind of how you put it. But in those statements there is no real truth. For a social democrat, job security and a strong labour law are the very foundations of what makes working life, and therefore society, decent. Job security, which is governed by the Employment Protection Act, is what prevents arbitrariness from taking place in the labour market. The bourgeois rhetoric usually consists of the rule of last in and first out meaning that the employer is obliged to terminate those who are last employed regardless of what skills you need at the company – we have heard this evening too. That, of course, is not true. It becomes very clear that it is not true if you go to, for example, the Labour Court and look at how few cases it is that have to do with the rules of rotation. How the order lists are designed is something that trade unions and employers negotiate about. As a former trade union negotiator, I myself have been in many dismissal negotiations. I know that there is a great willingness on the part of the workers' organisations to solve the supply of skills in the workplace and that, for the most part, negotiations with employers are very flexible. Why, then, is it so important to have rules of order at all, can a friend of order ask himself if things always work out? Well, the reason we have the rules is because we want to prevent arbitrariness. Every time you have to resign someone, you have to call a union hearing if you are an employer. This is in order for all workers to have the right to have their case brought before them. You should not be able to get laid off and go out in the event of a lack of work because you are the employee who has asked questions about the work environment or because you have demanded the equipment you are entitled to. You should not end up on the employer's own first-out list because you have children who are often ill, because you are pregnant, because you are hunters, vegans, redheads or because you are not always an avid yes-sayer. Believe me, I have met many good and serious employers during my trade union years, but I also have many rogue employers who have tried to get rid of people on very loose grounds. In that case, the Employment Protection Act and the Rules of Procedure are regulated in the only protection you have as an employee. A working life without that law and without the rules of rotation would create jobs where silence spreads, where no one dares to question anything or even come up with new ideas. You may not even dare to join the union, for you are afraid of losing your job. A form of serfness – we might call it – would spread, and all power would lie with the employer. It is precisely to counter serfness and create a balance in power in the labour market that we in Sweden have developed the Swedish model. We have strong legislation in essence, and we have collective agreements between the parties that can regulate that legislation. The law applies to everyone, whether there are collective agreements in the workplace or not. This is the base. That is labour law. It is basically about which society we want to live in. We want strong individuals who can claim their rights without being fired. Or do we perhaps want to go back 50 years in development, where workers were entirely in the hands of the employer without any rights at all? Then you stood with your hat in hand outside the factory every morning and prayed on your knees to get in and work one day to survive and to support your family. I don't want it that way. Unfortunately, labour law has been relaxed in recent times – for quite a long time, I would say. We have employees who are basically holding the hat in hand, but today it is a mobile phone you are holding, waiting for a text message every morning from an employer to find out if there is a job for a few hours. General fixed-term contracts increase job insecurity. That is something that the government took the first step a few weeks ago to improve, but much remains to be done. We have long probationary contracts today, just as the Left Party's Ali Esbati has just mentioned, compared with what it was like before. It is a very insecure form of work, as you are completely left to the employer's discretion if you can stay or not. Many employers make their judgements on professional grounds, that is true, but there are actually those who do not. There are proposals from the opposition in this report to further impair employment security in the areas I have mentioned. There is even a reservation in which you want probationary contracts that are twice as long as today – from six months to twelve months: one year! I remember extending the probationary period from one month to three months in the early 1990s. There was a outcry in the trade union movement. Couldn't the employer after a month see if it was this person you should have or not? It was three months. We thought it was too long. Now we have six months. You're really gonna have to have a year? Then it is doubtful whether you are at all competent to make assessments in employment. Why, then, does this want to be done? Well, you say you want to lower the thresholds. The aim is to lower labour market thresholds. I would ask everyone to light the red warning light every time you hear a bourgeois say a reduced threshold. It is a different concept for the detriment of workers. Either you want to cut wages or you want to lower job security. Usually it's both. It is these reductions that are meant. The thresholds for a decent working life with decent conditions and therefore a good life are higher. Don't think anything else. That is not the path that we Social Democrats are going to take. We believe in strong rights for people at their jobs. We know that it creates safe people. We also know that strong and secure people make a democracy alive and a country stable. That is the society we want to build. That is also why, in just a few weeks' time, we have put forward two proposals that strengthen job security and the position of employees in the labour market. We want to develop the Swedish model. We don't want to lower it. I'm proud of that. Mr President, I would like to There are 24 reservations in the report. I wasn't going to point out any of them specifically, but now reservation 6 from the Alliance has discussed t s part. I'm having a hard time interpreting it at the moment. It was a little easier to interpret it when we discussed the report in committee before 8 March. After suggestions have been made on how to change the Posting of Workers Directive in order to strengthen the conditions for a reasonable labour market for employees in this country, I find it difficult to read the reservation that exists, where you say that the government should not put its weight on this but on other things. Does the Alliance mean that, at this point, when a proposal from the Commission has come, the government will stop caring about this issue? Or what do you mean? After all, we will not go back to what it looked like before this reservation was probably written. I could read it, because it feels a little out of date. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations. I also call for the approval of a good Easter for all of us in this House.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1507	Mr President, I would like to I have worked for over 20 years as a staff consultant and followed quite a few staff matters. When Helén Pettersson says that the labour law we have prevents any arbitrariness, I cannot help but take a line. I know that the union is sometimes in and negotiates, and many workers feel that it is very arbitrary who can remain in the negotiations the union has with the employer. So you cannot say that all is peace and joy only this model remains. This flexibility may mean that a non-union member sometimes does not appear on the list of members of the union in a termination situation. I do not think it is possible to say that the Social Democrats have the full answer to prevent the arbitrariness of negotiations with the trade union. The labour market is hardening. It is tougher for workers, but it is also tougher for employers. Can't Helén Pettersson agree with that? It's a rapidly moving world, it's a globalised world and it's markets that go really fast up and down and down and here and there. Things can happen very quickly. That is why I would like to see us get a model where we negotiate in a completely different way and get into a new thinking about LAS. Does Helén Pettersson not see any opening to review the LAS?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1513	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the question is that I could certainly envisage revising the Employment Protection Act and tightening it up on several points in order to strengthen the rights of the employee. In the changing social climate and in the globalised world, it is tougher for entrepreneurs, but it is also much tougher for employees, for workers. They lose power in the changes that are taking place. Often it is difficult to pick up who is your employer, and you are quite extradited. What can be a recipe for dealing with it is having strong trade union movements that is a balance in the unequal weight that exists between companies and employees. I would like to look at the LAS but for a different purpose than Désirée Pethrus wishes. Mr President, I would like to Désirée Pethrus began by saying that there are those who are not satisfied after dismissal negotiations. That's it. I have been there and have been the subject of negotiations where I know that not everyone in the staff was satisfied. But it is almost impossible to run dismissal negotiations where people are satisfied. If we did not have this type of negotiations and we did not have to sit down with a representative of the workers' organisation, how much would arbitrariness increase then? Is it not a good thing that we have a way and a rule that reduces the possibility of arbitrariness? Or do the Désirée Pethrus and the Christian Democrats think it would be better if the employer only decided this for himself?
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1518	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't think it would be. We never said we were gonna scrap the whole LAS. We think there has to be. What I was trying to say when I was talking about flexicurity is that we need security for the employee but also for the employee. If we have no employers who want to hire, we also have no jobs to distribute. I think we are both well aware of that. Helén Pettersson attacked the Alliance because we want a longer probationary period in some cases. But start-up jobs, entry-level jobs and so on are exempt from the Employment Protection Act. It accepts the Social Democrats, so you realise that sometimes it is needed, right? The Social Democrats have accepted temporary employment and are behind it. You write this in your own texts: Not least, such forms of employment can play an important role in reaching groups that find it difficult to establish themselves on the labour market. It is important that there is flexibility in the labour market and in the labour law framework. ..................................................... So the Social Democrats themselves say that flexibility is needed. When Helén Pettersson answers, this only applies to the employee, but I think we need to balance both the employee and the employer. Here we need a change in order to find a consensus on a new labour law. I do not have any concrete proposals here and now, but I think we should review the whole employment protection law. It will be a bit the Emperor's new clothes when the Social Democrats say that it is all about protecting them, because there are many exceptions in their own regulations. That's what I wanted to go up and comment.
i-7783f4acbf7a65e2-1525	Mr President, I would like to Of course it's not optimal. That is exactly what I was trying to say in my previous speech. I would like to review and strengthen many aspects of job security where I think there are shortcomings for employees. I do not think we have a balance in the labour market today. We do not have two equal partners. Employers, especially large companies, have a great advantage over employees – much depending on some of the forms of employment that exist today and which I think you should look at whether they should remain in place to the same extent. I have no objection to time-limited employment. I think it is important that we can have fixed-term jobs such as substitute jobs and other things when necessary. Today we also have a general fixed term, which is a form of employment which has been abused and which is abused in some cases. I have doubts about what it will look like in the future. Unfortunately, I do not think we can do much about it with the majority we have in the Swedish Parliament today, but I think that we should in the long term review whether this form of employment, which is so loose, should remain. In fact, I do not think there is any reason to have one-year probationary contracts. I also do not think that probationary contracts can be compared with, for example, entry-level jobs. The entry-level jobs are about a rather small group compared to the test jobs, which are about all employees who come to work in the labour market. There I can't see at all why you need to have a year to see if the person really is the one who should have the job or not. I think you have to be able to see it after six months.
