i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-7	Mr President, I would like to For me, this is a holiday. This is one of the most important things we have to do in this House. Sweden has been a major forerunner in reducing climate emissions. We were first with carbon tax. Compared to other countries, we have a lot of rail transport on track. There are many other aspects in which we have made reforms. We have arranged a urban transformation and a community building, and I would like to say that this is actually part of the Swedish model. The development of our prosperity should not be at the expense of others, whether people who live now or future generations. It is therefore crucial that we change the powertrain in the transport sector. We will phase out fossil fuels or, as the Prime Minister put it in the Government Declaration, become one of the world's first welfare countries to become fossil fuel-free. That was also Sweden's promise in the climate negotiations. It's absolutely central. Many see it as a threat: What am I unable to do in the future when it comes to flights, passenger cars and so on? I see it as a huge opportunity, but it is always difficult to know what is on the crest when you stand there just before you have reached it. I believe that the possibilities of building a transport sector and a non-oil-dependent society offer us as much opportunities as when Sweden grew from being a poor peasant country to becoming a modern industrial country. These are the positive opportunities. There are also threats if we fail our task – if we do not dare to go up to the crest and see what is on the other side. I want to use a metaphor that may be a little worn out but fits in the context. Looking at global emissions, we are still like the Titanic at full speed on the road to disaster for humanity. It was precisely this people who saw before the climate summit in Paris. Sweden acted there exemplaryly and decided together with other countries that our ambition should be to maximize the temperature increase to one and a half degrees. We have to reverse the trend. Our everyday activities in the Committee on Transport and Tourism when we discuss new railways and how to look at new fuels are really at the heart of this. 78% of the oil imports Sweden has gone to the transport sector. If you count not only domestic transport but also half of the international travel and shipping that Sweden generates, it is 40 per cent of the climate impact. What do we do about this? Fortunately, the former government – which I may not always praise – added a lot of comments on what it did and did not – an investigation into fossil freedom on the way. That was very well done. Then we got the whole scientific community, the car industry players and so on: what are we going to do now? The investigation is thorough. Most of the proposals are good, but not all. The investigation has been referred, the proposals are ready and it is time to address this and make it a reality. The cooperation government has started with urban development agreements to give municipalities an opportunity to assume their responsibilities. It's a pretty central part. Although we sometimes think that we are progressive and energetic and that we are at the forefront, it is municipalities and cities in the world that are at the forefront of the transition. It's no wonder, because it's local you first feel floods, extreme weather, basements that fill up and when something happens to the metro in New York. I think it'll be a thought for a lot of people. That is where the demands are made: give us the opportunity to design together with our citizens a transport system that does not adversely affect the climate! Give us the opportunity for the necessary change in the city! They can do a lot on their own, but there are some things we can contribute. Then the urban environment agreement is important. I would like to sum up the investigation and also what is begun in the Government Office as three things. It is, of course, a matter of changing fuel, but we have been talking about this for quite some time. I'll get back to what we need to do there. Some of this is in our area of preparation, but quite a lot belongs to other committees in Parliament. It is above all a question of changing modes of transport. We have started with this in the cone of traffic when we point out the possibility of doubling the share of public transport. If this happens in relation to passenger cars and flights, it is perhaps the fastest and most effective thing to do to reach a fossil-independent transport sector. Renewable fuels are certainly good, and I believe that electrification of urban traffic has great potential. But the oil's merit and the curse is that it's so energized. You get so much gunpowder out of it when you use it. As far as renewable fuels are concerned, there is no potential to charge so much that we can replace all the diesel and petrol we are using today. We have environmental goals in the forest. We want to use the arable land to grow food. This means that there is a limit technically, biologically and ecologically for how much renewable can be taken out. Therefore, a change of mode is perhaps the most important. However, we also need to change habits, and I mean both goods and people. We must have a low-carbon economy, and we must have a society that is not based on access to cheap oil and that there will always be. It will not, even if the price of oil is low now. I did a reflection when I tried to immerse myself in this. What makes you think about putting Findus in Bjuv, in the part of Sweden that I come from? Peas growing is an important part – if I am going to move on to a completely different topic – in order to have a cycle in agriculture. After the pea sowing it is easy to grow other crops, so pea cultivation is important. How can this idea be thought of? When I was going to get into this a little more, I realized that much of the peas produced by Findus in Bjuv are sold in southern Europe. Then we eat peas imported elsewhere – far away. How is one possible? It is possible because you do not pay the cost of what you give up when driving a truck. It's too cheap to use oil. However, there are opportunities, and there is Sweden at the forefront. We have a potential that many other countries envy us. Compared to the rest of Europe, only Sweden and Finland have so much forest. Although it is not possible to take much out, the forest is a source that we absolutely must use much more in terms of supporting ourselves with fuel. We have technology that allows us to use biogas from digestion residues, sewers and biological processes where today we do not have a very smart use. We can use that. We have technology and companies that can help us develop so that we can not only achieve the goals of a fossil-independent transport sector but can actually also play a role in other parts of the world. Together with the automotive industry in Sweden, we can develop concepts and have a test site that can enable us to show other countries how to do it. This, as I see it, is a natural part of Sweden's new industrialisation and export strategy. We in the Transport Committee do not own all parts of this process, but for example we can promote and ensure that the EU directive on renewable fuel infrastructure is put in place so that there are nationwide gas and electricity networks that can replace fossil fuels. I am proud and happy to be part of this process. On this basis, I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-27	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the Committee on Transport's report No 9 paragraphs 1 to 8. The Socialist Group has a reservation under paragraph 9, and that is reservation No 8. There's a lot of eights and nines here. Of course, we support this reservation, but for time to come, we refrain from calling for its approval. I'll get back to you with the reasons for the reservation a little later. Now we have a debate on the environmental and climate impact of transport. Such a debate can be as technical and interesting as ever and absolutely wonderful. However, if such a debate is held, I also think it is important to consider the background to why we are discussing these issues. For me, and I also believe for many of you who are politically active, this issue, like many other political issues, is based on justice, good habitats, solidarity with people in other parts of the world and a community building in which citizens feel secure and can develop and look to the future with confidence. From such a perspective, it is clear that transport, both small and large, is of great importance to individuals and businesses. However, the emissions that transport contributes and has contributed for a long time in our societies also mean life restrictions for individuals and for whole societies. The list of impacts of climate change can be made long. It is about changes that can be disastrous for individual societies. Extreme droughts and sea-level changes can destroy the living conditions of entire communities. But it is also about the effects here at home in a number of areas. Health, agriculture, biodiversity and tourism are some of the areas affected if we do nothing about climate change. Unfortunately, in many parts of the world in decision - making congregations, we have seen this development for too long without doing anything. There is now a greater consensus that we need to do something. The Paris climate agreement is a clear step forward, but the Paris climate agreement presupposes that we do what needs to be done at home. This is one of the most important issues for our societies in the future. It is just as the previous speaker said, that the issue of a fossil-free transport sector is one of the most important tasks that we in this House have to deal with. It is a very high priority for the government, and I am pleased that it is also involving the other parties in the Riksdag. I see it on the exercise flora. It should be said that I did not believe anything else before the report came and the motions were presented. I am convinced that all parties think this is an important issue. But you have to go from thinking that it is an important issue to taking action to make something happen on the issue. Several things need to be done to achieve the goal of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. We need to use our transports smarter. We must move goods from road to rail and shipping. Fossil fuels must be replaced by sustainable fuels, and the transport sector needs to be more electrified. For us Social Democrats, it is gratifying that we, together with the Green Party, are now able to realise a great deal of the proposals that came out in the study on fossil freedom on the way. I would like to mention a few examples. Climate change is an initiative that the Government has decided on and which concerns almost SEK 2 billion in total between 2015 and 2018. It can be used and used to a large extent to expand the charging infrastructure, but it can also be used and used to expand the production of biogas. The urban environment agreements mean SEK 500 million per year between 2015 and 2018 and are used to make local and regional investments in public transport in urban areas. In the case of public transport, rail transport is important, and maintenance is essential for its operation. SEK 1.24 billion per year for 2016 – 2018 the Government allocates increased maintenance. I will say that it was unfortunate that the bourgeois alliance, together with the Swedish Democrats, slowed down these efforts in 2015 by cutting the government's budget. But it is a good thing that you now seem to have thought better. At the same time as the development of rail transport, the government is also working to make road freight more environmentally sustainable. The study on fossil freedom on the road proposed changes so that heavy goods vehicles can be allowed to operate on suitable parts of the road network. You are well aware in this House that the government has decided to allow 64 tonnes, and now we are moving on with 74 tonnes. The investigation also suggested that a kilometre tax should be investigated. The government has set up an investigation into the introduction of a road wear tax, and it should be completed in 2016. This issue is important both in this perspective but also in the perspective of getting our ways in order when it comes to competition. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Agency to propose how the environmental zone regulations can be developed. There are experiments with electric roads in two places in Sweden. In 2017, we will find answers to how this technology can be used and what is needed to implement it on a larger scale. The Government increased the grant for the super-environmental car premium by SEK 132 million for 2015 and by SEK 94 million for 2016. This means that the cleanest cars, the electric cars, get the highest premium. The study on fossil freedom on the move made two alternative proposals regarding the introduction of a bonus – the Malus system. The government is looking at this now to see what system we are going to put in place and how we are going to introduce it. In order to achieve the objectives of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, we must dare to use all the instruments. Two other instruments mentioned by the investigation were CO2 tax and air travel tax. We saw that the prices of petrol and diesel were falling, and it is important that we dare to act in order to maintain the pressure on the vehicle fleet. A tax on air travel I know that the bourgeois alliance in this House does not even want to look at or investigate. It is important that we dare to see all the instruments at our disposal in order to be able to make the right decisions. This leads me to comment on the reservation that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have in the report. We share the opinion of the majority of the committees that aviation also needs to change and become more environmentally friendly. It will therefore be a bit of breaking open doors when making an announcement to the government. Now the Government Office is working on a flight strategy, which is included as an important issue. However, it is important that it is handled seriously and that trade-offs are made against the needs of other sectors for biofuels and the pace at which the use of biofuels can be expanded in aviation as well. I have full confidence that the government is now dealing with this. With that, Mr President, I can see that we have an ambitious policy in this area. The government has made many wise decisions that lead us in the right direction and has taken many initiatives where we will also be able to advance the positions of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in the future.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-49	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all reservations in which the Moderates are present, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 1. Sweden and our society are facing both short-term and long-term pressures. Over the past year, increased migratory flows and terrorist threats have required short-term action to address acute problems. The measures have been absolutely necessary, but in the midst of all this we must not forget the long-term challenges and the work towards global warming. Attitude changes, technology development and legislation will all need to be important components of this work. From the political point of view, it is important that we take the climate challenge seriously and change our transport system. At the same time, we shall carry with us that working transport is crucial for both Sweden's exports and the individual's ability to get to and from work. Research shows that our transport needs will increase rather than decrease. So it is not first and foremost transport that we should combat, but emissions. Mobility and sustainability must be able to go hand in hand. The environmental target committee has recently agreed to strengthen Swedish ambitions in terms of climate, and the goal is a carbon neutral society in 2045. The objective of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2030, set up by the Alliance Government, is an important part of achieving this long-term ambition. Large parts of this House agree on the objectives for once. I think that's very good and important, and I'm happy about it. We will, of course, have different views on the way forward and on the measures to be taken. That, Mr President, is not insignificant either. While the proposal of the red-green side makes almost all transport more expensive, the Moderates want to work with smart and targeted measures aimed at combating emissions, not transport. It is also regrettable that the taxes that the government wants to introduce appear to be about withdrawing money to the Treasury in general rather than affecting the environment. Otherwise they would have been designed fundamentally differently. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates believe in man and humanity's collective ability to solve problems. Through research progress and technological development, we have eradicated diseases, lifted large parts of humanity out of poverty and created endless opportunities for communication and interaction between people. If we can place a man on the moon, we can also remove the emissions. It is only through development and innovation that we can manage to face global warming without slowing down social development and without saying no to all those people who want a better life around the world. The truth, Mr President, is that developments are moving in many ways in the right direction, but we must speed up the pace. Emissions from road transport have decreased, emissions from new cars have decreased and the share of renewable fuels has increased sharply. During the time of the Alliance in government, the share of renewables in the transport sector increased almost four times, and the target of reaching 10% renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020 was achieved prematurely. But more efforts must be made to achieve Sweden's long-term climate and energy goals. We want to reduce the climate impact of transport through more renewable fuels, high climate performance of both vehicles and fuels and more efficient transport. Sweden, as many of you know, is the third-largest country in the EU to surface, and we will need all modes of transport in order for people to get to and from work and businesses to have their goods delivered. The climate challenge linked to the transport sector is not about punishing individual modes of transport, but about improving each one of them. That is why it is a good thing that a majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism chooses to address an announcement to the government that we want to increase the share of biofuels used in aviation. I think it is an important signal to send, and it would have been good if even the red-green ones had wanted to join the announcement. Perhaps, Mr President, there are internal tensions in the government regarding the future of aviation, which have more to do with environmental bias than with rationally considered positions. Sweden is and remains a country with long distances, and if we want to maintain aviation, we must develop it. No, Rikard Larsson, I do not have the same confidence in the government's ongoing work on aviation strategy, because the only news I have heard so far is that it wants to introduce a flight tax that cuts off people's travel and that it plans to close individual airports. So no, I do not put my faith in that strategy, but I think it is important that this House is clear that we want to develop aviation and increase biofuels. We can do this in many different ways, through more research and development and through differentiated take-off and landing fees, as we have in Norway. One thing is certain: it will not be easier for airlines to invest in the four times as expensive biofuel if you impose a penalty tax directly on the whole industry and on people's travel. Mr President, I would like to We will take a position on all the different types of traffic that we have to deal with. Rail and maritime transport are also important parameters. We need to move more of people's travel and more of the goods to these modes of transport, where the climate impact is low, and then it is important to have a working railway. I am pleased and grateful that the Alliance Government doubled the appropriations for operation and maintenance on the railways. I am equally pleased, of course, that the new government shares this ambition and now also invests heavily in operation and maintenance. But more needs to be done for people to be able to trust that the train comes and goes on time. The Finnish Transport Agency needs to take a concerted approach, get better control of its plant and get a national maintenance plan in place. As far as our waterways are concerned, a great deal can also be said. In practice, Sweden is an island without being an island, that is, we have a violently long coastline that we can use better. Let us develop maritime transport and coastal and inland waterway transport, let us tighten up the sulphur sanction system that currently exists for the Baltic Sea but is not being properly followed. It will pay off for those who switch and use environmentally friendly fuels such as LNG or methanol or a scrubber technology. When it comes to heavy goods transport, it is important to develop our truck traffic so that it becomes more environmentally friendly. Instead of stating that lorries are outdated and are not needed, I note that they guarantee people and businesses a flexibility that railway rails can never achieve. We can never drag railroads or rails into every forest clearing either. By allowing trucks of up to 74 tonnes, we can load more per truck and get more efficient transport and thus reduce emissions. This is what the Alliance has been demanding for a long time. It is going a little too slow, but it is good that the government is now planning to make a proposal before the summer. Perhaps an even more revolutionary idea is the electric roads. The techniques around electrical roads are developing at violent speed, and we have two pilot projects that will soon be in progress, in Gävle and at Arlanda. With this type of innovative solutions, we can retain the flexibility of the truck but also reduce emissions. It's a win-win situation that we have to embrace. It is important that we do not waste time without taking advantage of the knowledge gained through these two pilot projects. Mr President, I would like to The car has been described throughout history as a symbol of freedom. I dare to say that it is still for many people in our society. Not least those living in rural areas, where the bus does not go everywhere or only walk once every two or three hours, go to the car. But tomorrow's car doesn't have to look like yesterday's car. Here, too, it is about combating emissions and not the vehicle itself. With the right research and instruments, tomorrow's car can be an environmental friend. I am proud and pleased that during this year the Alliance allocated considerably more than the government to the super-environmental image premium. I am also proud and pleased that the Alliance Government started work on a bonus – the Malus system. I'm glad the Moderates have committed money to expanding a system of charging poles. The red-green government is consistently raising taxes on everything that moves – petrol and diesel taxes, and it wants to introduce a kilometre tax. For everything that knocks off people's transport dependency, we are trying to find more smart and targeted instruments for enabling people to have alternatives. It is also important to see that our use of the car is undergoing a radical change, not least in the big cities. We should be able to find ways to switch to more car pools, sharing economy and carpooling in our big cities. Today, there is no legal definition of a car pool, so municipalities cannot reserve parking spaces. It's a problem that needs to be addressed. There the government must work out a definition. Mr President, I would like to To go in for landing: The Moderates are not going to set different traffic levels against each other. There is a need for air, rail, road and maritime transport in a country which is to the surface the third largest country in Europe. It is crucial if people are to be able to commute and travel, so that companies can receive and send their goods and connect the whole of Sweden. If all of Sweden is to live, society's transition towards carbon neutrality and a fossil-independent vehicle fleet must be determined, but given that we humans and companies have a need and a dependence on being able to transport us, and it will continue to be great. I am proud that the Alliance government set itself the target of a fossil-based vehicle fleet. I now hope and expect that we can come to concrete action on even more of the various proposals that we have discussed.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-74	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for Jessica Rosencrantz. One is for what reason she does not want to use market economy principles to achieve a fossil-fuel-free vehicle fleet. Both air and long-distance lorry traffic have shown several times that they do not have charges and prices to internalise the cost of transport. If an efficient transport system is to be provided, market methods are needed to include costs in the price. The second question is: How does Jessica Rosencrantz think that people in general and small companies should be able to keep up with the transition to a fossil-free vehicle fleet? Many of the measures that you are advocating are good, but we also need to have a change that will enable people living in rural areas who have difficulties in replacing cars to be involved in the changeover. This also applies to haulage companies that may only have one truck. That is why I wonder how Jessica Rosencrantz feels about the obligation of quota for gradually filling the idea with more renewable fuel. Not everyone can afford an electric car, and I don't think all hauliers can afford to buy an electric truck either. It is important that in the many cars that already exist you can have more renewable in the tank when you are going to refuel and not just need to buy new vehicles.
i-68EdmHH6uhBXiC7e53CF4F	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin Svensson Smith, for the questions. The first question asked is, of course, very important, and I have delved a little into the statistics available for this. Not least, VTI carried out a very large review of the socio-economic costs of the different modes of transport in 2014. It notes that long-distance truck traffic has a higher internalisation rate than, for example, freight trains. This does not mean, of course, that we want to increase all the costs for the railways to cover their costs. A balance needs to be found here as to how to ensure that these transports also work. I think it is important for the truck to take greater responsibility for the external costs it brings, but that applies to all modes of transport. The mileage tax that the government is reviewing would mean far more than covering its external costs. Rather, it would be a direct penalty tax on the truck. Then you can turn the statistics, which are complicated. But it's not as simple as saying that the truck is the only kind of traffic that doesn't carry its own social costs. I described earlier other ways of developing truck transport. I believe that they can be made heavier and more efficient so that fewer trucks are needed on our roads to transport the same amount of goods. Electric roads have enormous potential, and then we can still keep the truck while ensuring that the fuel is replaced. With regard to question two, it is important to ensure the quality and functionality of the types of traffic that we want people and businesses to make more use of. Then I'll be back to the robustness of our railroad system. It is clear that rural areas should not be without public transport, but must, of course, be realistic in terms of how many buses can operate in a sparsely populated area.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-82	Mr President, I would like to As far as freight is concerned, it is primarily maritime transport which reasonably covers its costs through the fairway and port charges charged. It is pointed out that, in relation to long-distance truck transport, according to VTI's reports, there is a bias that makes it inefficient in the transport system. The purpose of the commission given by the government to the investigation on wear and tear taxes is to have fair and the same principles for all modes of freight transport so that we can find the best combinations of roads, railways and shipping in the climate. Then I wonder how the Moderates, who otherwise profess to be a market economy, might have something against this. I do not think I was clear enough when I asked the second question, or Jessica Rosencrantz misunderstood me. It is not about public transport in rural areas, but about the possibility of refuelling in rural areas. There are plenty of charging poles and new fuels in the metropolitan regions, but it is there that it is easiest to live without a passenger car. It is difficult to do that in Sweden's countryside, and so I wonder – and it was not a rhetorical question – how the Moderates view themselves as a duty of obligation. This would allow you to keep the car that has but gradually choose more renewable when you think.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-84	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I think it is important that we strive to ensure that the different modes of transport bear their own costs. The problem is that the railways do not do so today either. Then rail charges have been radically increased to take up the increase in wear and tear that occurs on our railways. But there must also be reasonableness in the costs imposed if we still want people and businesses to be able to transport themselves. That's why you have to work with whips and carrots. Unfortunately, I only see whips from this government, while we rather want to work with incentives for electric roads and heavier vehicles, for example. The mileage tax that the government is investigating is not just about covering the external costs of lorries, for then it would not introduce such a high tax as is now being investigated. It's all about a penalty tax. With regard to question two, I apologise. In fact, I forgot the specific issue of obligation. We have not yet put our foot down properly there, and from what I understood from the government press conference yesterday there was no concrete information. Possibly, obligation can be a way to look at. I am not ruling it out, and that can be a reasonable balance. I am aware that the industry itself is partly in favour of a quota obligation. We had a meeting with Sweden's haulage company a while ago, and I think that solution is interesting.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-88	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Jessica Rosencrantz. In motion 3059, which is an alliance motion, and in reservation No 1, it says that the basis of our climate policy is the principle of a price of carbon dioxide.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-90	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we basically support the principle that emissions should be taxed. It is also such instruments that we have used in Sweden in many times when it comes to carbon tax and other things. Now I do not know if Rikard Larsson himself will get into this, but in the case of some of the different modes of transport there is a reason to seek national solutions. In other cases, there is a reason to seek global solutions. Not least, aviation is an example where we need global pricing of our emissions, as our air movements, as we know, are taking place across borders to a very large extent.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-92	Mr President, I would like to I think this is one of the problems with Moderate policy in this area. You say one thing in writing, but then you don't dare to take the consequences of it and want to let someone else take responsibility to fix it. In this case, it would be international agreements that would deal with it. When you see that the price of fossil fuels goes down and that the pressure thus decreases on a shift from a fleet of vehicles dependent on fossil fuels to a fleet of vehicles that is more driven by non-fossil fuels, it is clear that you have to act if you think that carbon dioxide should have a price. As far as the Moderates are concerned, this becomes a bit of a confession of the lips. There is a situation in which we want to make fossil-dependent transport cheaper. It is unfortunate and does not lead the matter forward. We should also be aware that the resources we receive – Jessica Rosencrantz said in her speech that it is only fiscal – is money that can be used to make other investments, such as climate change, urban agreements and railway maintenance. It is clear that the principle of taxing what pollutes in order to be able to invest in what is environmentally friendly is very important, but it also requires that you dare to make decisions. Finally, I would like to ask another question in connection with Jessica Rosencrantz's speech. It is about increased rail maintenance. If you think that was a priority, why did you stop the increase in rail maintenance in 2015?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-97	Mr President, I would like to What I object to about your taxes is that they are only fiscal. It is about once again squeezing people and businesses for more money, not about designing taxes smartly. A smart mileage tax would be adapted to different fuels. If we want to introduce different types of instruments aimed at changing people's and companies' behaviour but still protecting transport, we can find other designs. This is just about squeezing people and businesses into money. That is one of the problems I have with this government's policy. One claims to protect the climate but actually only uses it as an excuse to collect more money. I think it is a short-term policy. When it comes to aviation, I think it is right and reasonable for us to have an agreement through ICAO. They will meet at the end of this year, 2016, and hopefully work their way to global agreements to ensure that aviation assumes its responsibility for emissions. We should wait for that process. As Norway now moves forward and introduces a flight tax, we know that the entire ICAO is raging, because it does not want different national systems, but a global price of emissions. That is why I think it is wrong to move forward now with a short-term national solution. As far as rail maintenance is concerned, Mr President, I think this is going to be a little ridiculous. The Alliance government doubled the appropriations for operation and maintenance on the railways. I'm very proud of that. The Finnish Transport Agency itself says that it is very difficult to spend the money you get in extra funding for a year, because only the procurement time is about the same. When I had discussions with the former Director General and others at Trafikverket, they said that a problem at least as great in their work was that this government radically reduced funding credits, which means that investments can no longer be shifted between years in order to have flexibility. Now it becomes very technical, but that was for example just as great a reason that you could not make investments on the Boden – Sauna Träsk section. I think it's a little ridiculous to blame yourself that way.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-100	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to talk a little bit about a motion written by Runar Filer and Jonas Millard. It's about the pump act. We believe that the obligation on service stations and other points of sale to provide renewable fuels should be removed. In our opinion, the conditions for living and working in the Swedish countryside deteriorated when the so-called Pumpkin Act came into force in 2006. Living in rural areas means relying on service facilities providing fuel in the form of gasoline and diesel in particular. Since about 94% of motorists own vehicles with equivalent fuel properties, it is very important to provide petrol and diesel. As a result of the Pumpkin Act, for economic reasons many service facilities have had to shut down their activities because they could not afford to install renewable fuel installations. As the gas station owners themselves bear the large investment cost and very few use the fuel, it is not profitable at all. We believe that the provision of renewable fuels is good for promoting more and better environmental alternatives. We do not believe, however, that it should be imposed by a law that significantly complicates the survival of small traders. These are already often at the margins, and it is therefore economically very difficult to invest in biogas plants or ethanol pumps. The ethanol pumps pop up like a big and positive environmental thing – which, however, destroyed the engines of the cars. We are seeing new developments in the automotive industry today. Three hydrogen plants have been built, one at Arlanda Airport, one in Gothenburg and one in Malmö. It is an investment of nearly 19 million to replenish the hydrogen in place. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-106	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about how we can change the Swedish and, preferably, the international transport system in a long-term, dignified and sustainable way. This is probably one of the biggest challenges facing Parliament's Transport Committee and Swedish transport policy. The Center Party and the Alliance Government took several measures to break Sweden's very heavy dependence on fossil fuels in the transport sector and instead promote a fossil-independent vehicle fleet and transform the Swedish transport system into a fossil-independent and sustainable system. We can already see results in several areas of that policy. Over time, emissions of new vehicles have decreased and their transport efficiency has increased. The share of renewable fuels has increased very strongly. During the time of the Alliance, the share of renewables in the transport sector increased by almost four times. The target of reaching 10% renewable energy in the transport sector by 2020 was achieved much earlier and by far. But, of course, we cannot settle down with this. More efforts must be made to achieve Sweden's long-term climate and energy goals and fulfil the commitments we have made in international contexts. We therefore want to reduce the climate impact of transport through more renewable fuels, high climate and transport performance of vehicles, fuels and more efficient transport. Long-term and effective targets and instruments are needed for an increased share of renewable fuels with high climate performance and electric power and for more efficient transport. The Center Party and the Alliance want to see long-term instruments that in a predictable and over time sustainable way increase the share of renewables. It will then be important to promote technological development in this area in order to achieve the sustainable transport system. The Center Party and the Alliance believe that increased mobility is compatible with reduced emissions. People will continue to ask for travel, and it will continue to be necessary to transport goods. The reverse, to prevent people from meeting, to reduce people's accessibility and to prevent goods from being moved, is a policy of backing into the future. Biofuels can be used to replace fossil fuels in both road traffic and air and maritime transport. That is why it is a good thing that the committee is making a very clear announcement to a passive government as regards the ability of air transport to change. Sweden is, and will be, a green pioneer country and a "green battery" in Europe. The climate and environmental challenges facing our society want to meet the Center Party and the Alliance with measures based on knowledge, on the best available technologies and on what is economically efficient. This is the only way to ensure that the measures are of real benefit to the environment. Mr President, I would like to Economic growth in our society is a prerequisite for addressing the world's environmental and climate challenges. The climate threat is best met through effective and technology-neutral instruments that contribute to both technology development, lasting change in behaviour and increased use of more sustainable solutions. The polluter pays principle shall apply. The basis of our climate policy and therefore transport policy is the principle of a price of carbon dioxide. The long-term vision previously adopted by the Center Party and the Alliance is that Sweden will have a sustainable and resource efficient energy supply by 2050 and no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere. Since that goal was adopted, the Environmental Objectives Committee has further sharpened its ambitions with the goal that Sweden should not have net greenhouse gas emissions in 2045, and our parties have obviously supported this. In order to achieve this objective, the interim target of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030 will be extremely important. It is therefore important that the Government immediately gives information on the instruments with which this will be implemented. We hear the ambition of government representatives for a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, but we hear very little about how it should be done. It is surprising that the government of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, supported by the Left Party, is showing so little verkstad in this area. I would like to stress the importance of the government giving priority to electrified roads as a matter of urgency. The experiments on electrified roads in our country were initiated by the Center Party and the Alliance in connection with the last major transport policy decision in 2014. Electrified roads are an innovative way to reduce the use of fossil energy in the Swedish transport system and not least for heavy traffic. Together with Vinnova and the Swedish Energy Agency, the Finnish Transport Agency is running a project to develop, demonstrate and evaluate electrical roads. The electric roads project is the largest pre-commercial procurement in Europe. Through this project, Sweden with our industry is one of the countries in the world that has come the longest in developing the technology for electric roads. We know that you test two different techniques, one at Arlanda and one at Gävleborg. As a country, we are at the forefront of the development of electric roads. It is now urgent that Sweden continues to invest in developing electric roads. In this area too, I and the Alliance are calling for much more workshop by the government consisting of the Social Democrats and the Green Party with the support of the Left Party. Mr President, I would like to Through this type of technological innovation, we can develop and protect all modes of transport while achieving a more sustainable society. It is worth pointing out the calculations made by the analysis and technology consultant WSP that show that not all but two thirds of truck transport in Sweden could be carried out on electric roads. This would reduce energy consumption by around ten terawatt hours per year, because energy efficiency is higher with electric power. It is therefore important that the Government prioritises the issue of electrified roads and reviews the possibilities of expanding the experimental projects. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I agree with the reservations made by the Center Party and the Allian, but for time, I only agree with reservation No 1.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-122	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Åkesson, for many suggestions where we have the same view of what should be done. Anders Åkesson expressed some concern that the government is doing nothing. I will make sure that Anders Åkesson gets my script here afterwards so that he can read through the list I listed during my speech. I have a question about electric roads. There are many of us who find it very interesting with the projects that are now being carried out. We also had representatives of the experimental activities visiting the Transport Committee. I don't know if we interpreted the information a little differently. I thought the projects were very clear. My interpretation of the information was that two projects are now being run with two slightly different technologies. When those projects are completed, we have the answers we need. When we have the answers we need, there is no need for new projects, new studies or investigations. Then it's time to decide how to move forward to get a little bigger scale on it. That's why I'm a little confused when I see the exercise and reservations. What is the new project that these two projects will not answer?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-125	Mr President, I would like to That was a very relevant question from Rikard Larsson. What I said was that I am concerned that the government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party and with the support of the Left Party is doing nothing, and to the extent that you do something you often do the wrong things. This involves, for example, examining tax on mobility across the board with very clear fiscal aims to raise a lot of money. It is not about controlling, changing to wise behaviour or giving people freedom of choice to choose the right one. You use only whips and rarely carrots. I don't have any news. We have received presentations in the Transport Committee, and we have attended many conferences. I am absolutely convinced that we will be going to more reporting meetings on the electric roads projects. It is one of the largest on-going pre-commercial procurements in Europe where they are currently testing at Arlanda and Gävleborg. It is a complete lack of information from the current government. What's next? In what way will the government capture the experience that is currently being gained by Swedish and European industry in concrete experiments in Sweden? Mr President, I would like to This is a very critical stage for the project. We are not told: yes, we are catching this in the future infrastructure bill. A little bit forward would be very good for us and for those who run the projects. It is not so many weeks until the Minister for Infrastructure will present a heavy, expensive and comprehensive infrastructure bill. You have to have a little bit of a clue right now.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-128	Mr President, I would like to With great respect for the honourable Member, however, I must say that I do not quite understand the starting point and that I do not quite understand the answer. If the starting point for the Alliance is that the government should give an answer to what happens after the projects are completed, can the answer not be to initiate new projects? I am a little concerned about how the Alliance and Anders Åkesson have thought about the matter. Let me turn to another issue that Anders Åkesson also mentioned in his speech, namely biofuels for aviation. There is a reservation from the government parties. We refer to the work on aviation strategy that is now being carried out at the Government Office. It is a work which is welcome, as I understand it, and which takes a holistic approach to the aviation sector. What the Alliance did during its time in power can at best, if we are generous, be called the beginning of an initiative. For the Alliance called a meeting two weeks before the loss of government power and asked the industry whether to develop a flight strategy. Now the Alliance is pushing the issue of biofuels in aviation. About two years ago, you were in power. You had the Departments and the government's ownership. What did you do in your eight years to promote the introduction of biofuels in aviation?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-133	Mr President, I would like to I'll take the last question first. One of the first measures taken by the Alliance government in 2006/ 07 was to stop the aviation tax initiative. It was a completely counterproductive idea of national air tax on domestic flights. That, Rikard Larsson, was to give a lasting and forward-looking belief in the future in Swedish domestic aviation – that there was a future at all. Subsequently, a series of concrete measures were taken to get domestic aviation on the fossil-free runway as well. Several steps have been taken, but the power of domestic aviation is currently threatened by the government's S-MP, supported by V, once again catching the hook of domestic air tax. We have been very clearly described to us from the Swedish Aviation industry what enormous damage it would entail with a national air tax instead of working together internationally to achieve a much better result. You're going backwards into the future. The Alliance government made a concrete decision in 2014 to give money to the Swedish Transport Administration to start pilot operations for electric roads. That money is now translated into two concrete early trial projects. The Swedish Transport Agency now needs to know how the government S-MP, supported by V, in the infrastructure bill presented by Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson to the Chamber sometime in September – October, captures the power where Sweden lies primarily in Europe and perhaps mainly in the world. How do we pass it on? Does it land in a yes?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-136	Mr President, I would like to The climate is weighing on a tip of the head. It's scary. We see very extreme weather events, just as several previous speakers have so meritoriously highlighted. It is the greatest question of our time. It is we, this generation, who can save our future civilizations that humanity can continue to live in. It is gratifying that more and more in both blocks are beginning to understand the acute situation, which requires extraordinary activities in order to actually achieve a change in time. I think it's possible. A lot of things are happening around the world in places you might not have expected. In Turkey, land prices have started to be influenced by the use of solar cells. Saudi Arabia has started working on conversion plans and investing in renewables and so on. Things are happening that we hadn't expected a few years ago. This is to be taken care of, but at the same time we see the shifts in ecosystems that the researchers warned about ten years ago when I started working on the climate issue for the Nature Conservation Association. What they warned about then is starting to happen now. It's an emergency. That is why we must act vigorously, and Sweden, as a small country, needs to go ahead because we have such potential. Sweden as a small country can influence by being a role model. It is important that we take the goals of a fossil-free vehicle fleet by 2030 very seriously because the transport sector is a broken issue that we must be able to resolve. It is important that these issues come into the next infrastructure plan in the form of targets. It has been a problem before that Trafikverket has worked towards its own climate goals. It is precisely the infrastructure plan that has caused problems. That is why it is extremely important that all parties look at the next infrastructure plan and actually act to achieve the climate goals. It's about our future and what planet to hand over to our children. It is also important that we generally work with transport efficiency. I am pleased that this report also emphasises the need for transport efficiency. What is happening now in urban planning with regional enlargement means that people commute longer, that travel increases. Contrary to the four-step approach, it is possible to increase the size of the regions and labour market regions. That is why we need to think even more about transpor smart and even more about trains and public transport. They are the most transport efficient means of transport – to compensate for the fact that the policy goes against its own objectives. There is not a real holistic approach at the bottom. Those of us who are working on transport issues must save the situation because transport is fundamental to the economy. If we are to have a sustainable economy, transport must be sustainable. Technology won't lead us right up to time. Many researchers, the investigation that was produced during the bourgeois term of office about a fossil-free vehicle fleet with several points, are precisely that technology will not be enough but that we also need transport efficiency. At the same time, of course, we will support new and good technology as much as possible. It is also important that trains continue to function and that they are reliable. This is particularly the case with the Transport Council of Industry, where the largest companies are involved. Many companies have realized more than many in this House sometimes remember that Sweden needs a functioning railway even in the case of goods throughout the country. I am pleased that in the red-green budget we have put forward increased efforts to strengthen railway maintenance. At the same time, I would like to remind you that it is not enough because we need to reach about 10 billion. Now we are about 8 - 9. It's gonna take a billion extra. I would like to remind all parties of this, namely that if we are to comply with the quality demanded by citizens and businesses in the country, the railways need to be strengthened. The organisation also needs to be reviewed. We need to come up with a new organisation that works for the railways with state control of railway maintenance. As far as the proposals contained in the report are concerned, I can agree a little with the bourgeois side that they are not quite sufficient. But we are much more ambitious than the bourgeois side has been for many years. We dare to develop instruments that actually work. We make it so that it becomes carrots and easy to do right by putting the costs where you release, according to the environmental strategy that everyone in Sweden supports – that it is the polluter who should pay. But we need to do a little more and work a little more ambitious. Therefore, I hope that the obligation referred to in the report is actually investigated and reviewed in order to arrive at a curve in which we can plan emission reductions and have an action plan that we measure year by year in order to achieve our most important goal for our generation and do so with the same accuracy as we do when measuring the economy. We must have the same degree of certainty in the field of climate change. Then obligation is a good instrument; then we can tighten up as we have technology and know that we achieve the goals in a simpler way. I believe in a combination of taxes and obligations to get through. I would also like to emphasise that it is important that the infrastructure for alternative fuels is implemented in accordance with the European directive. There is, of course, a plan for this, but it is important that it is put in place because alternative fuel infrastructure is precisely demanded by the car industry. It sits and waits for that infrastructure to be expanded in order to dare to invest. It is incredibly important that we live up to it in politics and get it in place as soon as possible. I also look forward to the bonus – the Malus model. When it comes, I would like to see that it has the steering effect it needs. Green motorists have a point to make, so to speak, that both ends need to be taken care of in order to have the necessary leverage effect and also to encourage the industry to actually invest in the environmentally good cars. Here you also need to look at the cars that lie in the middle layers and get them with them. It is positive that work on electric roads is now under way. However, one should be aware that they will not be able to replace long-distance or in all parts so that one does not have too high expectations of this. But it is important that this research continues. At present, technology is so expensive that this is not something we can rely on, but it is important that we continue to invest here. It is good that the report supports this development. As far as shipping is concerned, the Left Party would like a clearer strategy, a national objective and action plans to increase the share of renewable fuels. Here the Left Party has a reservation that I am calling for bifa ll, and that is reservation 7. With regard to aviation and the aviation sector, which has been discussed here before, it is extremely positive that we are looking at biofuels in aviation. We need an action plan for that. It also supports the red-green side, let me say so that nobody believes anything else. On the other hand, biofuels cannot replace a flight tax. We have to work with both. We must also be aware that biofuels are not enough. We have ecosystems out there that interact, that live, that function as networks. When climate change pushes on in ecosystems and seasons are moved, the cycles of different species are also moved a little differently. This creates shifts in ecosystems that make them more difficult to interact. It creates an increased vulnerability of ecosystems right now when we have climate change, high exploitation and an infrastructure that fragments nature and the landscape very hard. Here it is important that we see the nature we live from, that we clearly see the branch we sit on. There are many cultures ahead of us who have learned this hard wave, just as we are doing. When you study old cultures, which have lived much longer than our civilization, you can see that they have put in their myths strong limitations on exploitation. They have imposed the most severe penalties for hunting in areas where the species they survive has, for example, their nursery. This has been studied in, for example, Aboriginals and a number of other cultures. This is because we humans tend to overexploit. Like children who get too much candy, we like to eat too much. That is why we need to set limits for exploitation. For example, we cannot take too much out of the forest. We need to balance so that biofuels are sufficient both for what they are going to do in the rest of the transport sector and for replacing plastics, building houses and so on. We must think wisely, and then we cannot have an aviation strategy based solely on biofuels. We also need to look at other forms of biofuels and look at, for example, the cultivation of algae and so on. It is a solid piece of work ahead of us, but it is good that all parties recognise the importance of it. As far as the pump act is concerned, it is positive that the report mentions that it has been reviewed so that rural areas are not affected. It should not be too heavy administration for the stations to provide fuel in the countryside. At the same time, we must ensure that renewables are developed precisely in rural areas, because we will have to leave fossil fuels. Even Saudi Arabia has realized that. Then we must also work effectively to ensure that there is an infrastructure for renewables in rural areas. We need to work with both. But it is positive that at the same time we are reviewing the administration so that we do not close refuelling points and make it necessary to drive further to refuel in rural areas.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-159	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1. There is sometimes talk of kitchen table politics, and it is undeniably the case that politics begins at the kitchen table and that the personal is political. For many people especially this car is very personal because you are so dependent on it. The alternative available public transport is simply not available everywhere in Sweden. Jessica Rosencrantz from the Moderates pointed out that sometimes you can wait between two and three hours on the bus. I know places in my own home county where you have to wait all day because the bus only goes once a day. Then the bus is simply not an option when you are going to and from work, because then you can possibly get there but not home. Cars create freedom and are a necessity for many. It's here to stay. A climate policy for the transport sector must therefore be directed towards progressive proposals in this area. My nine-year-old has a very progressive proposal – she thinks that everyone in Sweden should get at least one horse of their own. I think it's fun that the horse has started to be used in the forestry industry instead of heavy machinery. On the other hand, I find it difficult to see myself spending a week between Örebro County and Stockholm on horseback. In fact, I prefer the train – although what has been said is a very progressive proposal. Under the alliance government, the ambitious goal was set for Sweden to have a fossil-free vehicle fleet in 2030. That is something that has been mentioned several times here today. The goal is still, in 2016, that we face one of our biggest challenges: breaking our dependence on fossil fuels, especially in the transport sector, which accounts for by far the largest share of emissions. We Liberals are in favour of taxing emissions and pollution rather than taxing labour. The polluter should pay, and the tax should be increased on environmentally hazardous cars. With income from environmental taxes, we can reduce taxes on labour and entrepreneurship. The starting point should be to increase the share of sustainable and renewable fuels and electricity in parallel with increasing the energy efficiency of vehicles in order to reduce emissions. The electrification of the transport sector is important in order to achieve the objective, and in order to enable electric cars, an extension of charging infrastructure is needed. The electricity supplied must, of course, be clean. There's a lot going on here, and it's happening fast. Tesla has more or less changed the view of electric cars and made the development of charging only batteries have taken huge steps forward. This is why research in the field is incredibly important. But there are also other things we can and should do, not least at local and regional level. It is about bus lanes and differentiated congestion tax for electric, light trucks, taxis and passenger cars. I mentioned access to public transport. There is much to do around Sweden, and something as simple as a review and coordination of timetables can do much to increase the proportion of travellers. In addition, the public sector has a responsibility to take priority, and a tool can be procurement, for example. For the future, we need to look at how we use transport, including passenger cars, more efficiently. Here, too, it is a question of thinking progressively, of embracing innovation and technological development, of ensuring that the obstacles that exist are removed and, above all, of not building up new ones. Car pools, digital services where you can rent and borrow cars from each other or carpools, are an example that would be possible to use more, but it is a challenge for our tax system today. What is everyone's responsibility easily becomes nobody's responsibility, and the environment and what we want our future to look like is everyone's responsibility. Let me quote Karin Karlsbro, President of the Green Liberals: What she says is, among other things, the moral responsibility that lies with us, but also that environmental reforms often also have other good, positive effects. It should cost to destroy the environment and the climate, but it should also be easy to choose other alternatives.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-172	Mr President, I would like to If I understood correctly, Christina Örnebjär spoke of the ordinary man being present. I really share that ambition. Then she went through what they were talking about. It was about Tesla cars and electric roads and stuff. Then I'm not really in. I am definitely in favour of having a higher proportion of electrified traffic. I think it'll be mostly in cities. But if the 4.3 million passenger cars rolling on Sweden's roads are supposed to be replaced by new Tesla cars – there are not so many used ones to buy – how will the ordinary person keep up? One might think of limiting motorism by allowing only such cars, but that kind of limitation of motorism is in any case not behind the Green Party, because then it will be a little difficult to afford to live in rural areas. I wonder how you think about this. One way you can imagine is to combine increased electrification with a quota obligation, so that people retain the cars they have but have a greater share of biofuels in the idea when they think. I wonder if the Liberals have thought about that proposal? I think it is important that both rich and poor can be involved in climate change.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-176	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we share the view that everyone should be involved. That is exactly what I meant by the fact that it is everyone's responsibility and that we need to provide alternatives. My point in mentioning Tesla was to show how fast things are progressing. I do not mean that that would be the only solution for everyone and everything. But we need to be progressive and make it easier for that kind of research, because it will lead on. Some lead to the next and so on. I object a little to the expression, because it seems to suggest that we are different and that some are more unusual. I prefer to say that we are all people, quite simply. One of the proposals that we Liberals have is to differentiate the travel allowance, so that you can make greater deductions if you have difficulties with public transport, while it should be less easy to make travel deductions if you live in the city, where there is plenty of public transport. We Liberals have not yet set our foot on the subject of the obligation to be bound to do so. We'd like to see a little where it's going. We need to look at this with fuels, and we welcome the fact that there are many different types of renewable fuels. More economic instruments may be needed to simply punish fossil fuels and produce other, better fuels.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-181	Mr President, I would like to I also wanted to mention what Christina Örnebjär said about the polluter paying. That is indeed a good principle, and it is well in line with that part of the market economy that is effective. But let's look at the flight. If you have a similar tax on passenger cars that you have on flights today, petrol would cost 4 SEK onions at the pump. The plane doesn't pay its dues. You pay domestic VAT, and that's all. The rest – the fuel itself – is not in the price of transport. That's why the co-operation government has set up an investigation into airline tax. That would be a way of at least approaching the polluter pays principle. Then I do not quite understand why the Liberals are critical or question it. Another issue related to the polluter pays principle is truck transport. Maritime transport has an incredible potential to transport more in Sweden. We're gifted with long coasts and 52 ports. The waterway is very cheap both in investment and in maintenance. With a road wear tax, coastal shipping could play an active role in long journeys from north to south. Road user tax is also a way of approaching the polluter pays principle. Explain to me why it is liberal to say no to this!
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-185	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Karin Svensson Smith! I'll take them with me and I'll take a look at this. I can say that I am not fully aware of these issues, especially with regard to aviation, air tax and so on. I would be happy to return to Karin Svensson Smith with an answer.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-186	Mr President, I would like to The climate issue is one of the greatest challenges of our time. The Christian Democrats believe that efforts to reduce the transport sector's fossil dependence must be a priority if we are to achieve the vision and goal of Sweden being climate neutral by 2050. In order to achieve the objective of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2030 and a climate neutral Sweden in 2050, several policies are needed to accelerate the transition to climate-efficient solutions with reduced net greenhouse gas emissions. A real social shift in energy use is needed to significantly reduce our climate impact. Sweden will have a fleet of vehicles independent of fossil fuels by 2030, and the reduction of transport emissions will play a central role here. Emissions from transport account for one third of Sweden's total emissions. Emissions from road traffic and emissions from passenger cars are decreasing, while emissions from lorries are still at a high level and need to be reduced. Mr President, I would like to We need to do more to reduce man's greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. As the average temperature of the earth increases, developing countries are particularly hard hit by droughts, floods, and the spread of tropical diseases, and so on. The rich countries are responsible for the vast majority of the emissions made and made. If the temperature target of a maximum of 2 degrees and preferably 1.5 degrees of heating is to be reached, we need instruments and concrete measures. Mr President, I would like to For us Christian Democrats, the principle of stewardship is guiding in our view of the environment and climate. We will act with respect for our environment and future generations. We shall manage and not consume the limited resources and natural values. Environmental considerations need to permeate all policy areas. There is a need for a comprehensive framework and conditions that enable and encourage a long-term sustainable lifestyle. Different instruments need to complement each other. They can be used separately or together depending on the area of activity to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Mr President, I would like to To switch to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, several things need to be done. More and more people choose to travel collectively. It is possible to use a bicycle. It's about smarter transportation. More goods are transported from road to rail and shipping. Fossil fuels are replaced by sustainable fuels, such as biofuels. It is about longer freight trains, heavier and longer trucks, 30 metres long and up to 74 tonnes, and more charging poles. It is about investing more in research and development of vehicles that are energy-smart. These are bonus-malus systems, car dealers' bonuses for environmentally friendly vehicles and higher CO2 tax for vehicles with high CO2 emissions. A functioning rail system for passenger and freight transport is essential for more freight and passenger transport by rail. It is about prioritising electrified roads and expanding experimental projects to stimulate development in this area. It is about more trucks going on alternative fuels, such as hybrid trucks that go on biofuels and are electric. It is about the expansion and availability of the charging infrastructure for electric hybrids. Last and not least, it is important to promote technological development in the transport sector in order to tackle CO2 emissions. Mr President, I would like to Well-functioning aviation is essential for the growth and development of our country. We say no to the government's announced airline tax. Countries that have introduced it have abolished this penalty tax, which is socio-economically harmful and has negative effects on business and private individuals. The Christian Democrats want to invest more in a change so that aviation makes more use of biofuels. It is important that sufficient biofuels are available for aviation so that a long-term and sustainable transition takes place to reduce CO2 emissions. Work is under way to develop a national aviation strategy. It is important that it is broad and covers all the challenges for aviation and provides long-term conditions for the development of the aviation industry. Air travel, like other modes of transport, is important as a means of transport. Promoting increased use of biofuels in aviation should be a priority in order to reduce the climate impact of aviation. Mr President, I would like to As I said, more powerful instruments are needed to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. Long-term and effective instruments are needed to increase the use of renewable fuels with high climate performance and power and for more efficient transport. In order to achieve the climate targets, it is necessary to phase out fossil-powered vehicles and reward environmentally friendly cars. The Christian Democrats are therefore proposing an increase in vehicle tax through an increase in the amount of carbon dioxide. It is an important measure to reduce fossil emissions in the transport sector. Moreover, with an increase in vehicle tax, the environmental performance of the vehicle is the basis for taxation and not distance. Sales of charging hybrids and electric cars have developed very quickly in recent years. The Super-Environmental Premium, introduced by the Alliance Government in 2012, has contributed to this development. Since 2012, the number of electric cars has increased from around 1,200 to over 12,000 today. In order to encourage consumers to buy charging hybrids and electric cars, it is important that the charging infrastructure in Sweden is developed. The major obstacle to an increased share of electric cars today is the uncertainty that comes with the hitherto poorly developed infrastructure, the so-called reach anxiety. The Christian Democrats are proposing continued support for investment in charging infrastructure. We therefore spend SEK 125 million per year during the period 2016– 2019 on expanded charging infrastructure. We believe that this is an important effort to achieve the goal of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030. Mr President, I would like to In order to break Sweden's dependence on fossil fuels in the transport sector and promote a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, these measures are the right way to go. We can see that emissions from road transport are decreasing. Emissions of new cars are falling and the share of renewable fuels is rising sharply. Long-term efforts and priority work to reduce transport's CO2 emissions to achieve a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030 and a climate neutral Sweden by 2050 is an investment for the future and for future generations. With this, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 1. And I'm behind all the joint alliance movements.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-206	Mr President, I would like to If these objectives are to be achieved in a fossil fuel-independent transport sector, we must look at the efficient distribution of road, rail and maritime transport, but we must also make each mode of transport more efficient in its own right. It is at the heart of the Government's strategy to reduce climate impact in the transport sector. In the case of lorries, there is an investigation that is subject to consultation. We're talking about what you can do. What is wise and socio-economically effective in reducing the climate impact of truck transport? I must admit that I very much appreciate the ambitions of Robert Halef with regard to vehicle tax and other things regarding the contribution of the Christian Democrats to this. But I have a question: Has Robert Halef talked to Sweden's Åkeri company about this with longer trucks? If I look at the investigation, I can see that it is a matter of very easy access to Sweden with a truck that follows Europe's rules, max 18.75 meters, and hang on a tow truck. You can reach this with longer trucks. But it would be a manslaughter battle against Swedish haulage industry if we put it that way. We have other rules in Sweden. If one can easily increase the competitiveness of those crossing the border, the pressure on what we are talking about in the Committee on Transport and Tourism will increase. It is about having a fair haulage business with responsibility for the employees. I wonder if Robert Halef has talked to Sweden's Åkeri company about this.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-210	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Karin, for the question. Longer and heavier trucks mean that there will be fewer transports on our roads and thus less CO2 emissions. Not least, it will also be economically beneficial for the business community. It has been said earlier in the speaker's chair by many other speakers. The trucks enter the forest and can transport the cargo to the railway and to shipping. Boats and trains do not come so close to production areas and manufacturing areas. The truck is therefore important. By making it possible with longer and heavier trucks, we release less carbon dioxide, and it will be more economically beneficial for the business community.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-213	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Robert Halef has not spoken to Sweden's Åkeri company. Even if measures are to be taken, the measures must be such that they are practical and are in line with other objectives we have. After all, we want to protect a healthy haulage industry that complies with regulations, takes responsibility for the well-being and woe of its employees, provides decent wages and complies with collective agreements. I am not talking now about heavier trucks except for longer trucks that reduce the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry. However, I would like to turn to another question. Robert Halef also talked about the socio-economic damage of airline tax. Then I wonder if Robert Halef and the Christian Democrats have taken note of Nicholas Stern's investigation, the former World Bank economist, who showed that if we do not take action to limit climate change now, we have damage equal to the total of the two world wars to wait in the form of extreme weather and other events that destroy cities and cause floods. Thus, the Stern report concluded that it is more important to take measures now to reduce greenhouse gases than to wait and then take the costs for them. That is precisely why the Co-operation Government's directive on air taxes and road wear taxes – including climate impact in the price – is justified. Then I wonder: Is it more socio-economically harmful to wait and pay the bill for the climate bill? I didn't quite understand the reasoning.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-217	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, the mileage tax is a penalty tax on those who depend on the car. The Christian Democrats are proposing a tax on cars that consume carbon dioxide – we call it vehicle tax for the larger cars. But you want to impose a penalty tax on everyone who is dependent on driving and not on the bad guys when it comes to emissions. Secondly, with regard to the air tax, it is actually the same thinking of the government. Here you see an opportunity to draw in some taxes in order to be able to invest in other things. But you don't think about it. With higher taxes, travel is made more expensive, and with a national aviation tax it is more expensive for our aviation companies to operate in Sweden. As I mentioned in my speech, other countries have also introduced this penalty tax, as I would call it, but they have gradually abolished it. Instead of taxing flights with aviation taxes, we need to switch so that there are more biofuels that can be used for flights. We have heard and looked at the meetings where we have been together and met the aviation industry that there is a transition to biofuels. However, there seems to be a shortage of biofuels for aviation, so that is really what we are going to do for them: to be able to have enough biofuels so that it becomes a sustainable, long-term investment by the aviation industry to move to less CO2 emissions. From the Christian Democrats, we are absolutely opposed to these punitive taxes, which strangle the competitiveness of the business community and also its ability to develop.
i-BivhaDjuuMCct3ShcNnvBZ	Mr President, I would like to This motion for a resolution deals with some 40 requests from the general period of exercise. These include vehicle inspection, self-governing vehicles, abandoned vehicles, historic vehicles, winter tires, motorcycles, road signs, forest machines and A-tractors. In conclusion, it can be said that in most cases the committee agrees on how we want to resolve the issues, although there are 11 reservations from individual parties. Mr President, I would like to One of the issues that has nevertheless created some discussion and debate is what inspection intervals we want to see for our vehicles in the future. The inspection requirements are proposed earlier in the Swedish Transport Agency's investigation to change to the EU minimum level. Today, a new car is inspected after three years, then after two years and every year thereafter. The committee agrees that it is good to review inspection intervals, but we do not want to lower them to the lowest level in the EU, which would mean that we are looking at a new car after four years and then only every two years. The vehicle inspection works well, and there can certainly be reasonable reasons to review and change these inspection intervals, but the Swedish Transport Agency's proposal goes too far. The inspection work will then be moved onto our roads instead, on a police officer who is already heavily burdened today. Traffic police are already understaffed and find it difficult to solve their tasks. The situation has also been made worse by the fact that the police and the local government have removed the traffic police that were on our roads. Mr President, I would like to Today, both dangerous vehicles and drivers can drive on our roads with very little risk of being caught. This needs to be tightened up. In this situation, moving out the inspection work for additional vehicles with longer inspection intervals would be going in the wrong direction. I think it is a good thing that we are in agreement here in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and clearly point out to the government how important the vehicle inspection is in maintaining road-worthy vehicles on our roads. Another issue that we Moderates think the government should put a little more effort into is the regulations and conditions for the self-governing cars. The development is now moving rapidly, and there are many new and exciting opportunities. It is good that the government has set up a review of the autonomous cars, but we Moderates had hoped that it had gone a little further and made a little bigger review of how we are going to cope with these new vehicles. The investigation is today far too narrow and too limited and does not get all the parts we would have liked. Mr President, I would like to The self-governing and self-navigating vehicles that are now entering the market mean that we need to review the regulatory framework. These are new requirements for drivers and for driving licence training. It is about who is responsible in the car, how the infrastructure needs to be changed and how our roads need to be adapted to cope with these new vehicles. If this work is not done thoroughly now, new and more investigations will be carried out later, which will only delay and delay the new regulatory framework. Mr President, I would like to As regards the possibility for motorcycles to drive in the bus lanes, as mentioned in this report, we think it is a good thing that this opportunity is given to increase the accessibility of motorcycles. At the same time, we think it is good that it is the municipalities that decide this. Nevertheless, they are the ones who are familiar with the actual conditions in their own municipality. However, we are happy to help you to press the local authorities so that you really look at this possibility. The motorcycle is a smooth vehicle that takes little space and has less emissions, and we must do what we can to make it easier for the motorcycle in society. Mr President, I would like to With regard to A tractors, which is also mentioned in the report, we would have liked to see an increase in speed limits, but, as the report states, this could mean that we would have to make a requirement for B-certificates in order to drive these vehicles. We would like our young people to be able to retain their A-tractors already at an earlier age, and that is why we have rejected the proposal in order not to have to increase the requirement for B-licensing. In the case of winter tyres on heavy-duty vehicles, there is an ongoing assessment of whether there may be a need for winter tyres on more axles on our trucks than just on the drive axles as it is today, and we think that is a good thing. On the other hand, we would like this evaluation to be speeded up and to come back with proposals for further consideration. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to support reservation 1.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-235	Mr President, I would like to A-tractors are currently used mainly by young people, mostly in rural areas, where the distances to socialization, school and shops are large. This brings freedom to many of these young people and promotes responsibility and motoring interest. However, the rules on A tractors are still designed around the old purpose of the EPA tractor. Among other things, the regulations stipulate rules on speed that make the vehicle at the maximum speed of 30 km/h very close to the maximum speed of the engine. It is extremely inefficient, draws far more fuel and leads to greater emissions than is necessary. Since the A tractor has to be built by an approved passenger car, crash safety is ensured at significantly higher speeds than 30 kilometres per hour. This means that, from a safety point of view, there is no reason why vehicles should not be driven faster. A higher speed is also desirable from the point of view of road safety, as a relatively wide A tractor on ordinary roads creates frustration and often leads to dangerous overtakings by the drivers behind it. In conclusion, I believe that the regulatory framework for the speed regulation of A tractors should be amended and that the speed limit for A tractors should be raised to 45 kilometres per hour. In addition, today there are mopeds, which are allowed to drive at 45 kilometres per hour on the same driving licence as for A ‐ tractor, so from the point of view of education there should be no obstacles. Mr President, I would like to Speaking of moped cars: A moped car currently costs up to SEK 160 000. It's as much as a full car. Last year 362 moped cars were sold in Sweden. This is a rather modest number compared to the number of EU mopeds sold. Parents who buy a moped car for their children find that they travel safer than on the moped and that they can get to football practice or riding house in any weather without the parents having to drive them. But the price tag discourages and makes it a class issue. The reason why mopeds are expensive is because they are produced in relatively small series and are built with expensive technology to become small and light. Moped cars are not at all as safe as ordinary passenger cars. They don't have airbags and not as crash-proof bodies. The reason for this is that the weight must be less than 425 kg. If a higher weight is allowed for moped cars, these can be built much cheaper and safer. I believe that it would be possible, for example, to install a speed barrier in a smart car for a maximum speed of 45 kilometres per hour, opening up a completely different market for young people. When young people have reached the age of 18 take a B driving licence, a qualified workshop can remove the speed limit, and then suddenly you have a passenger car at no great cost. In conclusion, we have two types of cars that can be driven by 15-year-olds with an AM licence. We have the safe A tractor, which must be driven at a speed of up to 6,000 revolutions per minute to reach the permitted speed of 30 kilometres per hour, and we have the much more unsafe and lighter moped car, which can be driven at 45 kilometres per hour. I believe that there must be a change of rules and common-sense thinking in order to allow higher weight for mopeds and higher speed for A tractors. Mr President, I would like to Stockholm was probably the first city in the world to attempt to allow motorcyclists to travel in bus lanes. The attempt was successful and permanent, and it has been an obvious safety measure for motorcyclists around the country. It increases road safety by showing better, it reduces the risk of collisions and it improves accessibility. The traffic situation in many big cities means queues and congestion and unprotected road users sharing lanes with motorists who often engage in something other than just driving, such as texting on their mobile phones. It gives many situations where motorists make mistakes in traffic. When motorcyclists drive in bus lanes, they are better visible, which reduces the risk of collision and increases road safety. Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that all my colleagues in the Transport Committee have visited European capitals south of Copenhagen. What would the traffic situation in Paris look like if motorbikes and scooters were forced to drive in regular car - related lanes? Or imagine all the scooters and motorcycles in Rome, if they were to travel on Italy's capital like ordinary passenger cars! Italian car drivers with their world famous temperament would get lactic acid in the left arm after all honking on motorcycles and scooters in the car queues. Mr President, I would like to The European Parliament recently adopted a report saying that motorcycles and mopeds should be seen as a solution to congestion. This means stimulating the increased use of motorised two-wheelers, for example by allowing motorcycles in bus lanes. That is why I am very concerned about the majority response of the Committee on Transport, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which says that, as far as the question of driving a motorcycle in the bus lanes is concerned, the committee believes that the order currently in force is satisfactory, that is to say. that it is a matter for each municipality to allow motorcycles to travel in lanes which are mainly for regular vehicles. In the Committee's view, it is a good thing that traffic rules should be adapted to local conditions. ..................................................... The majority of the commission therefore considers that a motorcyclist travelling through different municipalities should be familiar with the regulations applicable to the municipalities through which the motorcyclist travels. It's kind of like when you travel by motorcycle through the states of the United States, when you're supposed to find out in advance what rules apply. Mr President, I would like to There must be a national regulatory framework on this, so that we allow motorcycles to drive in the bus files. I agree with all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, but for the winning time I only support our reservation 9, which highlights the motorcyclists' ability to travel smoothly in bus files, as well as our reservation 10, which is of great benefit to our motor-interested young people.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-252	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with many different technical issues. In particular, I will raise a few specific issues. In order to reduce the level of air pollution, Swedish municipalities have since 1996 been able to ban heavy vehicles with obsolete exhaust gas cleaning technology through environmental zones. It has favoured and accelerated the renewal of the vehicle fleet towards cleaner vehicles. However, we still have huge problems with air pollution and the environmental quality objectives that we clearly exceed. These are clearly set targets, and the same kind of targets should actually be used in the climate area as well. It causes thousands of premature deaths. Thousands of people die a year because of this. It's very serious. In Sweden, we have gone ahead by being a leader in the development of low-emission machines. However, we should give municipalities the opportunity to include work machinery and other machinery in environmental zone rules. This has been done in many other European countries, and it has worked well. In particular, air pollution problems arise from particles formed by the use of studded tyres. Lower stud-deck use is crucial to bring down particle concentrations especially in road tunnels. The fact that there is a lot of particles in road tunnels puts professional drivers in particular at great risk to health. I would also like to highlight the fact that tunnel mouths often go up in rental areas. Unfortunately, we have a major class problem in infrastructure planning, where we put tunnels in residential areas and remove tunnels in rental areas. This, in turn, is serious, because it is there that children play out a lot, you cannot afford to go on vacation and so on. In fact, I think that traffic planners should have an equality perspective in their traffic analysis tools to overcome this, because it is quite unreasonable in modern times that we should have such unequal urban planning. In the tunnel estuaries there is a lot of particle content, and it is a big problem that they often come up in apartment building areas where children play. I am in favour of our second reservation, which is that we want an extended environmental zone system to be developed, covering light vehicles and machines, but also noise, because it is also an environmental problem that creates health problems in terms of heart rhythm and so on. We also want there to be an opportunity to work with fees, as it has been a softer instrument that has proven to work well in other countries. This is therefore included in our reservation. I would also like to raise a reservation which we support but which I do not support. It is about the fact that we think it is urgent to introduce registers for parking permits which are vehicle-specific in order to reduce fraud. In fact, it has been shown that there is a very large amount of cheating on disability permits, which is causing major problems for disabled people. It is positive that the government is looking at it and is open to the possible introduction of a register. But we believe that it is so clear that it is needed. There are so many of those who have knowledge in this area who point out that it is just such a register that is needed. That is why, in a reservation, we would like to see this put in place.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-261	Mr President, I would like to Vehicle and road traffic issues are important for increasing the safety of our roads and for improving the functioning of traffic with less accidents and hassles. Today we are dealing with a number of sports involving vehicle inspection, winter tires, road signs and more. I will stick to the issue of winter tires and the Christian Democrats' motion on this issue. Mr President, I would like to Since 1 January 2013, there are requirements for winter tyres even on heavy vehicles in Sweden. On heavy trucks, heavy buses and passenger cars class 2 with a maximum weight of more than 3.5 tonnes, there are now requirements for winter tyres or equivalent equipment on the vehicle's drive axle when winter road conditions prevail. The regulations were introduced following an initiative by the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency, given that a significant proportion of heavy vehicles have been involved in accidents and traffic disruptions during the winter months. However, snow tyre requirements apply only to the vehicle's drive axle and not to the associated trailer wheels. Trailer of more than 3,5 tonnes is not subject to the requirement. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that this is a road safety risk and may have devastating consequences in a winter road with ice, snow, snow, or frost. Heavy vehicles with coupled trailers of more than 3.5 tonnes without winter tyres may pose a danger to traffic. If the grip is lower on the wheels of the trailer than on the wheels of the driving vehicle, there is a risk that the combination folds during braking when winter road conditions prevail. An example of this is the major accident that occurred on the Tranarps Bridge in northern Skåne in January 2013 when a person was killed and more than 46 injured. It has now been a few years since the entry into force of the new provision on winter tyre requirements for heavy-duty vehicles. I welcome the mission given by the Government to the Swedish Transport Agency on 1 October 2015 to follow up on implemented reforms and to investigate certain current issues in professional transport. The assignment includes that the Swedish Transport Agency should investigate whether, and if so in what way, additional requirements for winter tyres should be imposed on heavy-duty vehicles from a road safety perspective. This is too limited and unprecist. The Christian Democrats specifically believe that the government should evaluate the impact of the new provisions on winter tyre requirements and whether the number of heavy-duty road accidents has been reduced as a result of the requirement for winter tyres. We also believe that requirements for winter tyres on coupled trailers of more than 3.5 tonnes should be introduced. I therefore support the reservations of the Christian Democrats 3 and 4.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-272	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of the proposal in the report and of rejecting all the motions, and I would like to mention four different points on which the report is concerned. Initially, I was going to talk about inspection. Concerns have been raised as to how to proceed with the possibility of inspection outside the cities and also with regard to the range of inspections. I'm gonna do a little flashback. Sweden is definitely one of the best countries in the world in terms of reducing the number of injured and killed in road traffic in relation to how many miles are driven. Now it is not the vehicles that have primarily been the reason we have managed to do it, but the reason for this is that there are 2+1-ways with centre wire and speed monitoring with cameras. However, we should not underestimate the importance of having a very good track record on cars, and there the annual inspection has been very important in order to detect, eliminate and remedy those cars that have been in some way dangerous and have been able to risk accidents. If you look at depth analyses of accidents that have occurred in Sweden, damage to the vehicles is a very small part of the cause. This is partly because we are constantly making sure that dangerous cars are removed from the roads. I say this to safeguard what is good in the system that we have had. This is particularly true of older cars, and it is important to keep an eye on them often. I will say something about the proposals that exist regarding the use of public transport lanes for other vehicles. There have been various suggestions, and taxis are probably the most common. But there have also been other types of vehicle. The reason for establishing public transport lanes in cities, especially in larger cities, is to increase the competitiveness of public transport. In many cities where this has not been introduced, the bus is far too slow. As a cyclist, I usually travel faster by bike than by bus. In this way, we can hardly expect more people to trade cars for public transport. It has public transport lanes to increase the speed and attractiveness of public transport. The third issue I would like to raise concerns environmental zones. There I am very pleased that the Cooperation Government has set up investigations into this. The possibility of reducing climate impact and dependence on oil in Sweden is, to a large extent, about the fact that it is possible to improve air quality in cities. This can have an innovative effect. I see an increasing number of cities that set different targets with emission-free vehicles in the cities, leading to the development of electric power in different ways and new methods of freight distribution. If we can take the lead in this regard, we also have the opportunity to influence by having a lot of export industry and promotion measures. But basically it is about cities being able to be planned for people to a large extent and that people should be able to live and have a good life and be affected by air and climate as little as possible. This leads me to our suggestion that we look with confidence at looking more at self-driving cars – autonomous vehicles. In the Green Party, we are very positive about technological development, but we must also be able to critically examine proposals. If we look at self-driving cars, there is obviously potential for improvement in the current car fleet, but we also need to think about and think about the fact that much of the problem in our cities is lack of space. We want new homes, we want more greenery and we want more public transport. It must also be taken into account in assessing the potential for self-driving cars. I would like to link this with the report we have just debated, which concerned a fossil fuel-independent transport sector. The task is so great – we have such a large share of fossils in the transport sector today – that the measures we are taking together must be possible for everyone to be involved in some way. Then it is important that not very much is based on everyone having to get a new vehicle. Of course, we will make it easier for those who can afford and exchange a climate-affected car for a modern car that may use less fuel or go on electricity or biogas, but that cannot be the main alternative for people. Then it is forgotten that when a car is made and scrapped, it creates a climate impact and attracts a lot of resources. We must combine the proposals for new vehicles with the introduction of a quota obligation or a reduction obligation in some form, so that those distributing fossil fuels are gradually required to increase the involvement of renewables and so that we finally achieve the objective of a fossil fuel-free transport sector.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-282	Mr President, I would like to I am not really in the speaker's chair to reply to Mrs Karin's speech, but I am in the speaker's chair not to have to take the floor at the end of the debate. I shall make a corrigendum, quite simply – a corrigendum of my motion. I support the Christian Democrats' reservation No 6.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-283	Mr President, I would like to I have no comments on that.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-284	Mr President, I would like to On the basis of this motion for a resolution, we are debating a lot of different vehicle issues. As Sten Bergheden pointed out, we are broadly in agreement on most of the issues raised in the report, but nevertheless I think there is reason to draw attention to some of the issues. The first is the vehicle inspection. Here I think there are reasons for a little public education, you can almost call it. During the eight dark years when this country was led by the Alliance government, a way of artificially creating a market for vehicle inspection was sought with beaks and claws. It started by liberalising the market, and it did not produce very good results – three new plants, I think it was. Then one sat down and pondered a little bit on how to move on. In the end they came up with this clever idea: If only AB Svensk Bilprovning lent money to Opus AB they could buy a number of facilities. The seller thus lent the money to the buyer. Opus AB bought a number of facilities in northern Sweden. The company later turned out to have its base in Cyprus, and no tax was paid in Sweden either. I don't want to compare this with the last giant scandal with Panama as a base, but the idea that with this arrangement you would get away with tax is obvious. Very well! The vehicle inspection market did not even want to take off through this sale. The smaller owners of AB Svensk Bilprovning – Motormännen, Taxiförbundet and all of them – had to form a company to take over a number of stations, mainly in western and southern Sweden. Peter Norman stood here in the speaker's chair and said that this would be done on market grounds. The sales were to be made at market prices. But when there is no market, how can the market set prices? I do not know what the company paid for its stations, but there can be no market price because there is no market. At least there was no market for the sale of stations then. Now, though, it seemed like something, after that five six years. Then a new player came in from outside and started to establish stations in smaller towns. The pride of the bourgeois was evident – now they had succeeded! But then things started to happen. First, the EU came up with requirements for minimum directives in this area, which is great. At that time, all those countries which had too low a survey or too long an inspection interval were able to raise the level. Suggestions to put Sweden at a minimum level were also put forward, something that virtually nobody agreed with and that will not be implemented either – we can say that here in Parliament today. We do not know what is coming instead, because the referral is currently being dealt with. But then came another blow to the bourgeois model. Swedac, the agency that grants authorisation for the operation, announced that Clearcar – as the company that had established itself in the countryside – was not allowed to continue. Clearcar was a company that started stations outside the major cities, but it simply did not meet the requirements for vehicle inspection. From a regional perspective we can really regret this, but from a traffic perspective it was a must that Swedac intervened. Mr President, I would like to I will say a few words about this with the European adaptation of the vehicle inspection. First of all, it is a good thing that the EU is raising the overall level of inspection throughout the Union, but that Sweden should lower its level to the minimum level proposed, of course, we cannot accept. I do not think anyone in this House will accept that either. That is also what Sten Bergheden gave notice of. There are some reasons for this. Of course, the first is road safety. Even relatively new cars are affected by faults that need to be addressed. This is demonstrated not least by the fact that car manufacturers are allowed to take back cars at regular intervals in order to correct defects that have a particular road safety character. The issue of emissions is also included when cars have had to be recalled. Manufacturers indicate certain values for the lip, but it turns out that they do not correspond to reality. Inspection would be a good way to find out what the real emissions are. Because it is the real emissions we have to deal with when we talk about fossil independence, not the theoretical ones that have been calculated in some lab somewhere. Furthermore, too large an extension of inspections would probably lead to significant price increases or the closure of unprofitable stations. Where it will happen, we understand each one; we do not need to be rocket scientists to come up with that. Finally, inspection is a good guide for consumers when it comes to the purchase of second-hand cars. The first thing many people look at is the inspection instrument – what has this car been wrong over time? It is therefore a good guide for them too. However, it is now as it is with inspection activities in our country. Our protests along the entire chain of folly have sounded unheard of. Some things would never have been done but unfortunately cannot be undone, and we must live with the situation in which the bourgeois have put us. We must, however, follow the issue so that it will not be as we feared, namely that rural areas will again become losers and that inspection of heavy goods vehicles cannot be carried out other than in a few places in Sweden, because of the large investments that need to be made to check, among other things, with emissions from heavy goods vehicles. The exercise of public authority must be able to take place in such a way that all citizens can enjoy it without too much inconvenience. Mr President, I would like to So a few words about heavier vehicles. The government has made it clear in various contexts that a proposal was made on this issue before the summer. I would like to say that with satisfaction. I had hoped that the issue would also apply to longer vehicles, but that is not the case. The ongoing trials are continuing and will be evaluated. Then we get proposals in this area too, and that is, of course, a good thing. The Government has also given the Swedish Transport Agency a comprehensive mandate to return with proposals on a whole range of issues relating to heavy traffic. I am not going to raise issues that are not within the framework of this report, but I simply note that the requirement that is made in some movements about winter tyres on more axles than the drive axle, mainly the steering axle, is included in the mandates. I can say that in my country of Norrbotten, among other things, this requirement is justified. Winter tires are a must to get through our country during the cold season. In this context, it is important that the police are given tools to control this too. As far as police resources are concerned, I can only agree with what Sten Bergheden said in his speech, that more police resources are needed along the way. Dangerous vehicles, including vehicles with summer tires, should be included in this arsenal. Vehicles that use summer tyres during winter should be considered to be dangerous for traffic. As far as self-driving vehicles are concerned, I believe that there will be a regulatory framework in this area, and the review that is now being carried out will provide a basis for this. We still know too little about this area, and we actually need to make sure that we know what we are getting into before we draw up rules that we then have to come back and do over and over again. It's better to do the right thing from the start. When it comes to motorcycles in bus lanes, I share Sten Bergheden's view that it is the municipal level that should make the decision. And I'm not so worried that road signs in the municipalities won't be able to tell you whether motorcyclists can drive in bus lanes or not. Mr President, I would like to I have exceeded my speaking time and would like to support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-304	Mr President, I would like to Since there were previously some technical problems with the speaker system, I think while it works, take the opportunity to say that we Swedish democrats are behind all our reservations, but for time winning we only call for reservations 9 and 10. Earlier today, Per Klarberg has been up here in the speaker's chair talking about A tractors, EU moped cars and also motorcycles in bus lanes. I am not going to mention that much more, but I am going into other problems. For example, today we have great problems with people using disability parks when we actually have disabled people who have a great need for them. The use of false parking permits for disabled persons is far too large and widespread. In recent years there has been a sharp increase in the abuse of counterfeit parking permits for disabled people. This should be prosecuted for a number of reasons by taking action against those who cheat at the expense of those who, for various reasons, need parking permits. We welcome the proposal for national registers for granted parking permits for disabled vehicles. In our view, however, this is not enough, but it also requires a sharp tightening of the scale of penalties in order to be able to prosecute the use of counterfeit parking permits. For repeated cases of such violation, the maximum penalty should be increased and a vehicle that is repeatedly parked on disabled latches should be forfeited. Mr President, I would like to I'm also going to talk about winter tires. December 31st – March 31st is the law to use winter tires if it is winter road. The studded tyres may be used from 1 October to 15 April. It is legal to drive with studded tyres after 15 April and before 1 October if it is feared to become a winter road. It's a little bit of vague rules and interpretations. We believe that we could go back to allowing dubbing tires to come out of April. Sweden is an elongated country where there can be almost summer very early in the southern part and winter very long up in the north. April is also a month that is very tricky. It can be sunshine one day and snow the other day. In Gothenburg, where I live, people are increasingly trying to use friction tyres. But by salting quite heavily, it becomes fast ice formations, and then studded tires are preferable because it is not flat but very hilly in our small town. If there is any possibility, I personally try to switch to summer tires as soon as possible, because we know that studded tyres work extra hard on the roads and that there will be an environmental impact. At the same time, we would like to see the possibility of using studded tyres in April out. We also know the studded tires save lives. Fatal accidents decrease by nearly 42 per cent. Mr President, I would like to To conclude this speech, I would like to strike a blow for historic vehicles. We Swedish democrats would like to point out that the veteran car hobbies are one of Sweden's greatest popular pleasures, and they involve hundreds of thousands of people. This hobby also brings with it the good thing that people build old vehicles into functioning vehicles, both motorcycles, cars and mopeds. Veteran vehicle culture is an integral part of Swedish culture and must be protected. Furthermore, the hobby is an arena where people from different generations can meet and where many young people have a clear connection to the adult world, and many develop professional competence in welding as well as painting, electronics and mechanics through the leisure interest. We therefore believe that it is important to have low taxes on motor hobby, to safeguard the 30-year rule, to simplify imports of vintage cars and spare parts and to ensure that there is access to fuels that work in older vehicles. It is also desirable to have a special form of registration for hobby vehicles which, on the one hand, provides cheaper road taxes and, on the other hand, makes it impossible for the registration number to be linked to a person and an address by means of a simple search of the vehicle, which in turn prevents theft of these attractive vehicles.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-314	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 5. I was also going to say a few words about the exercise it touches. I think we've all seen the Lyx Trap program. Here we meet people who live above their resources, often young adults with a poor understanding of their personal finances. They are often so indebted that they see it as their last resort to participate in a national television programme for financial advice and assistance. Not infrequently have consumer credit, so-called quick loans and SMS loans, put them in this desperate situation. The dramaturgin in the program is always the same. Towards the end of each section, participants can barely get their budget together. But it is far from representative of what it looks like in reality. In 2014, 56 641 quick loan cases were submitted to the enforcement officer. There was an increase from 2013 with almost 7 500 cases. This represents an increase of 15%. Mr President, I would like to The figures speak clearly and we must act. The exercise I prefer has identified a few problems, and with the right measures we could curb this destructive development. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority currently registers the names of companies that wish to offer credit. M an also carries out certain checks on suitability, but only permits are required for undertakings combining lending activities of credit with deposit activities. However, there are two types of companies over which the Authority does not have the same supervision. These are activities that carry out public deposits and businesses that provide credit to consumers. In 2011, Finansinspektionen submitted a report to the government at the time with the main proposal that all supervision responsibility for quick loans should lie with Finansinspektionen. This happened in connection with the adoption of the new Consumer Credit Act, and it is clear, not least in view of the increase in unpaid quick loans, that it is a good idea. Clearly, many credit companies do not comply with the Consumer Credit Act. The government should come back with a proposal that all financial institutions offering credit to consumers should be under the supervision of Finansinspektionen. Thus, companies that do not behave properly should also be able to lose their licence. Today, the creditor has a clear responsibility for providing information on the annual percentage rate of charge. The creditor shall also conduct a credit assessment prior to payment. According to the Swedish Consumer Agency, which reviewed the procedure, it appears that several of the companies offering quick loans are failing in the very important examination. For this reason, it is necessary for the government to investigate the establishment of a comprehensive credit register with the debts of all citizens in order to improve the creditworthiness of companies and reduce the risk of over-indebtedness. The credit register must, of course, be structured in such a way that the privacy of each individual person is protected and that companies cannot use the register for the wrong purposes. Creditors who have failed in one way or another in their credit assessment should also reasonably not be able to turn to the Enforcement Authority to recover their claim. Of course, the biggest responsibility for good ethics in both marketing and granting credit loans lies with the creditor. However, it is important that there is good consumer guidance for people who need it. This means that it should always be possible for a borrower to receive support through good contact opportunities.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-326	Mr President, I would like to One day a letter came to Lyran in Lyran from the state bank SBAB with which they were customers. The letter said: Our mission and responsibility is to provide customers with the best service while meeting the owners' profitability requirements. It also wrote: "We will focus our lending on expanding regions around our offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, as well as larger growth and higher education centres. A little further down in the letter they wrote: We will therefore not in future have the same opportunity to offer the same terms as before and not the same level of service. Finally, SBAB wrote: you will not in future be offered tied loans with a maturity of longer than two years. Mr President, I would like to SBAB is a state bank. That means we all own the bank together. This means that the residents of Lyran in Lyran are not only customers but also owners of SBAB. Then it should be reasonable that the bank cannot decide for itself which service to provide without providing service to all owners, no matter where they live in the country. Too big to fail, too big to fall, is an expression used to rescue banks in the recent financial crisis of 2007-2008. It is therefore a question of private banks becoming so large that they have become socially important. This means that we need to save them together so that the economic system does not fail – although it is not our savings accounts that have made sure that they are in crisis, but their investment activities, that is, their speculative activities. In the U.S. presidential elections, the issue of bank sharing is hot. The American people had to save many Wall Street banks while 5 million Americans were forced to leave houses and homes. In Europe, the proposals on bank sharing have existed, but they have been quickly hidden and silenced. Let us take Nordea as an example. Their operations in the Nordic and Baltic countries together comprise 161 percent of Sweden's bnp. Unfortunately, we cannot spread responsibility for Nordea's risks to our neighbours in other countries, but the whole responsibility rests with us in Sweden. It is not just socialism because it is proposed that the savings accounts of small savers and stockholders' stock portfolios should not be in the same banking company. It is a sound economy that we as taxpayers should not one day have to save those banks that make huge profits by taking huge risks with us others as security and guarantee in the background. Everyone should have the right to open a bank account. That is not the case today. But soon EU legislation will be implemented in Sweden, and that will be the case. However, this does not mean that you will be entitled to an internet bank. People with indebtedness will still be able to be denied access to internet banking or other smooth payment functions by their bank. Instead, they end up in an addiction with expensive payment solutions as the only option to pay their bills. Mr President, I would like to Some people today have a long distance from cash withdrawal. For those living in Vittangi, Hakkas and Fredrika, the distance to the nearest ATM is more than 50 kilometres. In Svappavaara there is a state mine but no ATM; it is 20 miles away. Vidsel is called the rocket village because the Swedish Armed Forces' facility to test rockets and drones is located there. But no ATM has the villagers since last year. Overall, 117 000 people have more than 20 miles to withdraw cash. Of these, 36 000 are over 65 years of age. Somewhere between 1 million and 1 1⁄2 million people are affected by problems with payment services and would benefit from easier access to basic payment services for cash. Those who, according to the county administrative boards, experience the most problems with payment services are associations, disabled, elderly, newly arrived and entrepreneurs in the countryside and the archipelago. The Riksbank still makes over 20 per cent of all payments with cash. 87 per cent of all Swedes use cash every month, and 20 per cent of us do not use internet banking. Cash is therefore still of great importance. It is no wonder that it is difficult to reach basic payment services in reality. The number of ATMs has decreased by nearly 500 between 2011 and 2015. Cash handlers have been declining significantly since 2011, from 1 415 units to 694 units today. So it's a half. In addition, 154 bank accounts have been closed. The Handelsbanken was for a long time one of the few banks that chose to keep the cash handling. However, in mid-October last year Handelsbanken announced that they would end up with cash at 95 offices around the country. This meant that the last cash withdrawal point ended in 13 locations. In addition, 16 additional locations have lost access to cash as offices from other banks stopped handling cash last year. The referral period for the payment service investigation's proposal recently expired. Several bodies believe that legislation is necessary to address today's problems. Most importantly, I think it's the Riksbank's decision. The Governor of the Riksbank Stefan Ingves signed the DN Debate: a proposal that should be considered is to introduce a legal requirement for banks to maintain reasonable cash services. This would mean that banks would have a clear obligation to do what is expected of them, namely to assume their social responsibility and provide customers with the service they expect. Many other consultation bodies have set out in the Riksbank's position, especially among the non-profit organisations. The Government will submit its proposal to the Riksdag before the autumn. The best thing would be for them to propose legislation to protect consumers' access to cash. The next best thing would be for them to propose tougher rules so that it is not the banks, especially the big banks, that decide whether we should pay by card or by cash. At the same time, the banks are making billions of profits. The four major banks together earned SEK 106 billion last year and distributed nearly SEK 60 billion to their shareholders. It is clear that the market does not solve rural challenges. Ensuring a sufficiently good geographical spread of basic payment services should therefore continue to be a State responsibility. Unlike today, regulating the responsibility of banks for payment services would mean that it is ultimately the State that decides when the market can and should meet the needs of customers or when it should instead be a public task. Of course, this is not an easy task. However, the county administrative boards are already assessing when the state should go in with support for various measures. The important thing is that it is the policy that governs the development and that it is not the big banks that decide whether to pay by card or cash in our business. The Left Party has four reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 1.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-347	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations. The report deals with 47 requests for exercise from the general exercise period. They deal with various issues relating to banking and insurance and credit information. The committee makes two announcements to the government, on the one hand, on safer card payments, and on the other, that credit information for companies should not cover debts that have not been established by the Swedish Enforcement Authority or in court. Otherwise, it is proposed to reject all applications for exercise. Mr President, I would like to Generally speaking, as far as the vast majority of claims made in the report are concerned, state investigations or proceedings are under way in the EU. In these cases, the committee would like to await reports from the investigations. The issue that has raised the most debate is the responsibility for cash handling. I will deal with this last in the speech. There is a concern among entrepreneurs to end up in payment records for wrongly alleged debts that have not been established by the bailiff or in court. These may make it difficult for future business. The issue has been raised in connection with the issue of invoice fraud. The committee wants to satisfy the concerns of these entrepreneurs and therefore proposes an announcement to the government. Mr President, I would like to Four motions concern the issue of bank accounts and payment services. All of them have been rejected on the grounds that the Payment Service Investigation will be presenting its final report shortly. Making a notice would not in any way speed up a possible legislative proposal but be dealt with in the preparation of the proposal from the said investigation. With regard to SBAB, there are two claims, one on the sale of SBAB, and another on a motion which states that the Ownership Directive should provide for SBAB to exist throughout the country. As in previous years, the proposal for the sale of SBAB is rejected. In the same way that the Committee on Economic Affairs dealt with motions of similar content when examining the Government's letter on state ownership, the Committee rejects the motions with reference to the ongoing development work in the management of state enterprises. When it comes to the proposal to amend the Ownership Directive so that SBAB is required to exist throughout the country, it should first be stressed that SBAB has no social mission. Some government companies have it, for example Systembolaget, Samhall and others. Those who do not have a social mission shall act in the same way as other companies in a competitive market. Making demands for a wider office network would be a move away from the principle of acting in a competitive market. In all likelihood, SBAB would require the State to reimburse the company for these additional costs. One example of this is that the state has to pay a certain compensation to Postnord for mail and parcel delivery in rural areas. In this context, we should note the reduction in the number of bank accounts that has taken place in recent years. I am quite sure that this has not happened because the banks want to be mean to those affected both in cities and in rural areas. The reason is as far as I have experienced poor profitability for the offices. Mr President, I would like to Four motions address the problem of over-indebtedness in households. The committee shares this concern. The problem with over-indebtedness is that it can affect the individual household, but it also poses risks of macroeconomic instability. However, several recent measures have been taken, the principal of which is the amortisation requirement which will enter into force on 1 May. There are also several discussions going on, including on debt-to-GDP ceilings. There are certainly other proposals that both the authorities, the parliament and the government have discussed, but they have not made any sharp proposals so far. I do not think it is too bold to say that further proposals in this area are likely to be presented. When and by whom I don't want to speculate. It should also be noted that the recently adopted Crisis Management Directive requires banks to carry out risk assessments in a more systematic manner. This obviously also includes over-indebtedness in households. A motion has been initiated in which it is required that in principle all financial institutions offering credit to consumers should be under the supervision of the Financial Supervisory Authority. The law on consumer credit was amended from 1 July 2014 so that these institutions must have Finansinspektionen's authorisation to conduct consumer credit lending. As a result, they are also under the supervision of Finansinspektionen. With regard to the issue of regulatory framework for consumer credit lending, the regulatory framework was also much more detailed and clear in the context of the adjustment. It can rightly be said that this exercise is well served with the new legislative changes. Mr President, I would like to In a motion request, the issue of separating commercial banks from investment banks is raised. Work is currently under way in the EU on the so-called structural reform. In short, the proposal prohibits credit institutions from trading on their own account above a certain threshold. According to the committee, there is no reason to anticipate this work. It would be foolish. If such a proposal is put forward, it is likely to have to be changed shortly afterwards, as a new regulatory framework has come from the EU. I also do not share Håkan Svenneling's view that this would stand still, that little is happening. I would say that a great deal is happening. Both Parliament and the Commission are working rather actively to make such a proposal. Three exercises deal with the local presence of smaller banks and savings banks. The committee stresses the important role of savings banks in competition in the banking market. The issue of external capital has been dealt with several times by the committee. It should be pointed out in this context that the banking structure reform is under consideration, as I have mentioned before. The government has also set up an investigation to review the savings banks' terms and conditions. There is therefore reason to wait for both the bank structure reform and the investigation before final decision is taken. Mr President, I would like to Five motions address the issue of financial market rules and supervision. It is about following the rules of the Swedish Money Laundering Act, about the Swedish Ship Mortgage Fund, about developing a policy to combat discrimination between entrepreneurs based on gender in the financial sector, about regulatory simplification in the financial market area and about a review of credit granting for entrepreneurs. Mr President, I would like to As far as the Money Laundering Act is concerned, a recent report has been submitted to the government on the implementation of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive. The committee notes, however, that there are already rules on how to deal with financial institutions that do not comply with the Money Laundering Act. In the case of the Swedish Shipbuilding Mortgage Fund, the government is currently reviewing the regulatory framework for financing the seafaring sector. The committee did not consider that there was any reason to anticipate this revision. As regards simplification of the rules, the committee shares the concerns of the rapporteur. The work on regulatory simplification in the financial sector has not been as active as in other areas. I would say that the regulatory burden has even increased considerably in the financial sector. Some areas have been able to reduce their regulatory burden by more than 25% of the target of both the previous and the present government. However, it can be said that it is precisely the opposite with regard to the regulatory burden in the financial sector. The reasons for this are, of course, constantly new regulations from the EU. But it has also been noted that there are problems with money laundering legislation, banks going bankrupt and so on. However, there are a few exceptions. Only recently, the Commission presented a proposal to amend the Prospectus Directive to make it easier for smaller companies in the financial sector to deal with this. In relation to the rating of rural businesses, the committee would refer to the current Rural Committee. Mr President, I would like to The committee has issued an announcement to the government on safer card payments. This concerns, among other things, requirements for identification when buying with cards. I will now address the issue of cash. There are a number of sports where the availability of cash in society is treated. In the motions there are a few different proposals, for example that banks should be obliged to handle cash deposits and payments. There are also proposals for society to take such a responsibility in different ways. Finally, there is a motion which raises an issue in the work currently under way on public and municipal services in rural areas. Should this also include access to payment and/or card withdrawals and cash handling? With regard to the latter motion, the committee refers to the Rural Committee. The committee has experienced that the matter is being dealt with by the said committee. Mr President, I would like to The main issue on the issue of cash is that banks should be given a clear responsibility for managing cash in their office networks. This issue has been dealt with in two state investigations. The cash handling investigation issued its report in 2014. This does not suggest that banks should handle cash. Furthermore, the Payment Service investigation did not specifically propose this, but concluded that banks cannot be required to do so. It should also mention the role of the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to ensure that there is payment service across the country, where also the L widow's board in Dalarna has been given the government's task to map the situation in different regions of the country, mainly in rural and sparsely populated areas. The Government's ambition is to find a solution for cash handling. The difference between us and the Left is that we believe that we must try all the ways. It is unclear what is meant by banks. It must be stressed that when you talk about banks, you mean all banks. Otherwise, a situation arises where the legislation is not competitively neutral. If you mean the four major banks, there is a risk that it will be interpreted as a social mission, and then the state will probably have to pay for this. There must be smarter solutions than the obsession with the obligations of the banks that the Left Party claims. However, we do not rule out the fact that it is ultimately the banks that are given this responsibility. It is also worth pointing out that if we introduce an obligation, as the sportsmen want, there is a risk of more bank accounts being closed, and it is not impossible for this to be done in rural and rural areas. Another aspect to be mentioned is that innovation and the development of new technologies must be seen as part of this test. However, I would like to emphasise the need for the management of cash to have a solution in rural areas, for cities, for entrepreneurs, for civil society and for people who cannot handle the technology required by automatic withdrawals and payments via the Internet. It is mainly older people but also people with some form of cognitive impairment. Finally, I would like to mention, Mr President, that the report also deals with a number of issues relating to debt collection, sustainable financial system and Islam in so-called financing. In these areas, there are no reservations as to why I have not specifically touched on them.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-378	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to touch both SBAB and the cash handling in the line shift. Let's start with SBAB. Börje Vestlund sees me as wanting a wider office network. SBAB has one of Sweden's narrowest office networks with offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Karlstad. Most of the contact with the bank is via phone, internet, e-mail, mail and so on. This means that we do not think that you should have offices all over the country, but we think that you should be responsible for all owners no matter where they live. I think it would be a strange situation if Börje Vestlund were to receive a letter home to Liljeholmen where it says: Börje Vestlund! You're not profitable to us. We are therefore not interested by this state-owned company in taking responsibility for you. We know that you are the owner of us and that you are in the Swedish Parliament. But you're not profitable, which is why we don't take responsibility for you. That's what SBAB does, and they write it straight out. This should therefore be a responsibility, and there should be a government directive that SBAB is responsible for all its owners wherever they live. If we return to the cash, I think we are making it difficult for Sweden. In Norway there is legislation that states that banks to the extent that consumers expect to offer cash to customers. What do we need a bank for if it doesn't have cash? It should not be more difficult than simply saying: this is the responsibility of the banks. You should be able to achieve this. We absolutely need to be able to see exactly how such a law would be implemented. But the problem today in Sweden is that the government is hiding in an investigation and concludes that they are not even looking at the issue. Instead, they note that this is technology development and that the fact that old people die is likely to be the reason why people will stop using cash and instead use Swish. I do not think that is a sustainable way of looking at it. I am concerned when reference is made to committees on which I sit, as is the case with the Rural Committee. I do not think it is a rural committee that will solve this kind of challenge, which is technically complex. We need to do that from the Committee on Finance.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-385	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if I'm making so much trouble. I simply note that a change is now to be made to an already existing regulatory framework for banks. I share the view that we need to resolve the issue of cash. But if you get fixated on a single solution and think it's only the one that exists, you've ruled out all of this with innovations in the future. There is already a development today when it comes to the cards and to design them better so that even people who cannot handle them, such as the elderly and people with cognitive disabilities, can do so in the future. You may not need to have the code that is normally needed today. There is no one who has claimed – not an investigation and not a party, as I know – and who believes that cashless society will become a reality. At least it won't happen in our lifetime. Although I'm a few weeks older than Håkan Svenneling I don't think it happens either during my life or his life that cash will disappear. They'll still be there. Then, of course, cash will decrease over time. But that they would disappear is probably not a serious player who believes at all. Our view is that we should find a solution to this. But if it is exactly the way that it is the banks that are to be held responsible, we do not know. On the other hand, we have not ruled out that it may be the banks that get the assignment. However, one must also respect the fact that many banks will build new infrastructure because they have changed their infrastructure. It's gonna cost money, and who's gonna pay for it? It'll be us customers.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-389	Mr President, I would like to It is good, Börje Vestlund, that you note that the cash will remain for a long time to come. We are in a situation right now that the Riksbank is printing new banknotes and coins, and at the same time we have four large banks that basically have full control of the cash from being printed at the Riksbank to reaching your and my wallet. These major banks own the banks' depots where the cash is stored after it has been printed, and they own all ATMs throughout the country. If they decide that there should not be so many ATMs left – they have reduced the number by 500 – while every other bank account does not receive you when you want to deposit or withdraw cash, it is the big banks that control and not politics. This means that we actually get a situation where it is not possible to withdraw cash in Fredrika, Hakkas and Vittangi, but the nearest place is 50 miles away. It's a long distance. We see such a development in other places too, and so there will be more places without cash. I am concerned that we are not going to find a political solution to this, but rather that we are putting it on the banks. I am absolutely not locked up in the fact that we must have a kind of solution and that it must be legislation. But we see that Sweden is at the forefront as the nation in the world that settles cash the fastest. Nations that do not move so fast, such as our neighbour Norway, have legislation. They clarify what is government responsibility and what is the responsibility of the banks. For example, the Governor of the Riksbank has joined this line because he wants clarity about what is his responsibility and what is the responsibility of the big bank governors. That, Börje Vestlund, I think the government should take greater responsibility for and not hide in a lot of investigations instead of actually looking at what could be done concretely. It is entirely open to me whether it is legislation, licensing or any other way, but above all a solution must be found.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-393	Mr President, I would like to I thought I said, Håkan Svenneling, that we think it is important to find a solution. We haven't said we shouldn't. On the contrary, I would say that our report this year is a little sharper than last year. With regard to a political solution, we are talking about two investigations, but one has not yet presented its final report. What is it but politics? Is it on any other level? I don't understand what Håkan Svenneling means. I do not mean at all that the banks should be left entirely to decide for themselves. In addition, I will correct Håkan Svenneling on one point. A number of niche banks are involved in owning the ATMs, so it is not just the four major banks. My main point is that we think that we need to test all the methods we can and then take into account what the trade unions in particular have mentioned on a number of occasions, namely safety. It has not been dealt with very much in this debate, but the most important thing is to be able to withdraw cash. How to resolve security is not very clear in these debates. I'm very sorry about that. That is where I believe we must be open to new and innovative things and look at alternatives to managing over-the-counter in the way it was done in the past. I sometimes think it's like dreaming away to a completely different time and not in the present where there are new opportunities and new conditions. But it must be adapted so that the people who need to use the bank and who have problems with it can also do so.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-398	Mr President, I would like to Banking and insurance issues are being discussed not only in this House but also around the country. It takes place in everyday conversations in coffee rooms and at a kitchen table. They are, in the true sense of the word, wallet issues we are discussing. A highly topical issue that we touch on in the report is the issue of cash handling. This is an extremely important issue. We are moving towards a trend in which cash is increasingly being used. Digitalisation of a number of community services has been very rapid in Sweden. This is a positive development for most of us citizens. At the same time, it poses problems for some citizens, since the roll-out of mobile coverage and broadband does not take place primarily with those living in rural and sparsely populated areas. Around the country there are many places where the lack of cash management causes major problems for both individuals and entrepreneurs. Today in the morning, I called the country dealer at home in Venjan, a parish village in my municipality of Mora. I know he's got cash handling problems. He's got 100 miles back and forth to Loomis' box in the centre of Mora. I'm sure you can see for yourself that he can't leave every day to put the day money in the box. And that involves insurance problems, he mentioned, because he gets too much money lying around. Should there be a robbery, the insurance might not cover his cash register. The fact that the police arrive one or two hours after the robbery has taken place is part of another debate in another committee. Joel, as the country dealer's name is, has trouble getting change. He's trying to figure it out. Venjan is a village that holds together, and there are lots of associations that have bazaars and events and receive money, fortunately, that they can exchange with the country dealer. That is good, because the banks do not accept the money that the associations earn. He could, of course, buy the exchange fund from Loomis, but Loomis will then go 11 miles back and forth to deliver the money, and you can understand that for a small country store that is struggling for its survival there will be too much costs. My starting point is that it is primarily banks and others who should assume their responsibilities and work on their own initiative to secure the availability of cash. To have to legislate on this would be unfortunate. As mentioned earlier, legislation could lead to bank accounts being closed, particularly in smaller locations. Mr President, I would like to The financial crisis clearly demonstrated the importance of sound institutions, transparency, predictability and legal certainty. Banks and financial institutions are prerequisites for us to be able to have a functioning economic activity. For this reason, this activity is one of the most protected in society. The state stands as the last guarantor if things get out of hand. It is a necessity as well as it is a risk. The political focus has been on ensuring the stability of the financial system for several years. The crises we have seen in recent decades in banking systems around the world are a deterrent to us too. In Sweden and the EU, as well as at global level, work continues to make the systems more robust to prevent new crises in the future and to distribute risks, responsibilities, costs and more. However, the good intentions that exist with regulations are a threat to local savings banks, which play a very important role in rural and smaller cities. We all know that it was not the small savings banks that caused the financial crisis, but they are affected by the regulations implemented by all banks. The regulatory framework does not distinguish between large banks and local small savings banks. A capital adequacy report previously covered some 25 pages, and today it covers more than 600 pages. It is just one example of how the regulatory framework that banks have to comply with regardless of size has changed. Of course this is going to be heavy for small banks. We would need a change in the savings bank law so that savings banks can raise external capital, because that is a problem today. There is a need for reasonableness and proportionality between the regulatory framework for small banks and the regulatory framework for large banks.
i-6YJVmhjQYGcYZcdoKMsaJB	Mr President, I would like to This exercise report on banking, insurance and credit information contains a large number of motions and two announcements to the government. I intend to make four strikes in the report. The first concerns the announcement of increased security for cards with a payment function. In an alliance motion by Beatrice Ask and others, it is argued that more measures should be considered to increase the security of card payments. The background is that online crime is widespread and that bank and debit card fraud is common. In order to prevent crime from being committed, it is necessary for the bank to check the identity carefully to ensure that the right person uses the credit card. In July 2014, the EU adopted the Payment Account Directive, which aims to improve the transparency of payment services linked to consumer payment accounts. As part of this work, the Commission submitted a proposal for a revised Payment Services Directive. On 1 April 2015, the Government appointed the Payment Service Investigation to make proposals on how the two directives should be implemented in Swedish law. This must be done by 18 September this year. The committee considers that a large amount of security in the case of card payments is an urgent matter and notes that some initiatives have been taken in this direction. At the same time, the committee notes that there are major security problems in card payments and that this leads to bank and debit card fraud. These types of crime have increased over the last ten years, largely due to the increase in Internet use and technological developments creating both new opportunities and new security risks. The committee is therefore of the opinion that priority should be given to measures to increase the technical security of card payments. It is also important that the industry has the right equipment to ensure that the right person uses the credit card, and careful checks of identity and identification documents are required. I am pleased that the committee is in line with the Alliance and is making a statement to the government that several measures should be taken to achieve what the committee says in terms of increasing the security of cards with a payment function. Mr President, I would like to The second case in which several alliance movements are met concerns problems for companies affected by fake invoices. Unlike for natural persons, an application for an order for payment may already be presented to the enforcement authority as a payment note when credit information companies provide a credit information on a trader, regardless of whether the claim is justified or not. Unfortunately, many companies choose to pay even so-called fake invoices precisely in order to avoid paying notes, as this could seriously make it difficult for the company to carry out its business. This situation is exploited by more or less criminal operators who send false invoices to small businesses. Exercisers consider that there is a need to amend the Credit Information Act so that commercial credit information does not cover debts that have not been determined by a court or by the Enforcement Authority. As has already been said, such rules already apply to non-traders. The committee believes that a credit information service with up-to-date and accurate information on both individuals and traders is an important prerequisite for tackling incorrect demands and invoice fraud, which is considered a major social problem. In spite of ongoing investigations and preparatory work, the committee would like to emphasise in particular that the current rules of the Credit Information Act are different for traders and individuals and that there is reason to assume that, rather than contesting an incorrect claim, many companies unfortunately pay the debt for fear of being placed in the register of the Enforcement Authority. In its announcement, the committee considers that the Government should consider whether the Credit Information Act should be amended so that commercial credit information does not include defaults that have not been established by a court or other authority, i.e. the Enforcement Authority. I am very pleased with this decision by the committee, not least because I myself have exercised the same thing in the past. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to comment on the issue of cash handling. It is an issue that comes up every year in the Committee on Finance and on which I myself have exercised both in 2013 and 2014. In this respect, I believe that banks should be required to carry out reasonable cash management. The issue of banks' cash management and the possibility of depositing or withdrawing cash involve many. It is a question of certain groups, such as children, the elderly, the disabled, newly arrived refugees and persons who cannot or cannot handle cards and codes, being referred to cash transactions. It is also a question of small businesses and associations having major problems depositing cash funds at the bank. As long as the Riksbank issues banknotes that are legal tender, these banknotes must also be able to be used and deposited or withdrawn from bank accounts. In the so-called cash uprising, whose meetings both myself and others in the committee have visited a number of times, there are several organisations that are experiencing growing problems. At the Finance Committee hearing on 19 March last year, the problems were also confirmed by Svensk Handel, the County Administrative Board of Dalarna and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council. And only a few weeks ago, as someone mentioned earlier here, even the Governor of the Riksbank demanded legislation that obliges the banks to offer cash management to those customers who so desire. All of this shows that this issue is very important. In all honesty, it should be pointed out that the banks act quite differently on this issue. There are banks that are clear that they have no plans to stop cash management, and there are others who have already abolished much of the cash management. I can take this opportunity to mention Swedbank Sjuhärad at home in my constituency, where I myself am a customer. It is one of the banks that has cash management in all their offices and that clearly says that they have no intention of stopping it. So there are exceptions today. Banks often invoke security reasons to avoid handling cash. However, when the cash handling that still takes place is moved from the very safe banks to the more unprotected stores, the risk of robbery increases. Technological developments and the transition to more and more card services and payments via Swish or the Internet are fundamentally positive, except, of course, when there is no mobile coverage or when there is power outage or other problems with the technology. Then it's not bad to have some cash in your wallet. I feel that we have a fairly broad consensus in the Committee on Finance that the possibility of cash payments should remain in place as long as it is demanded in society. In this case, cash management in the banks is also required to a reasonable extent. I can accept that the committee rejects all motions with regard to the ongoing payment services investigation, the continued preparation of the Cash Management Investigation report, which the Alliance appointed once, and the ongoing work of the authorities on basic payment services for the needs of rural areas. But I want to make it clear that both I and others will be closely following these developments. There is widespread criticism from consultation bodies about too vague proposals for offering cash services. Unless ongoing investigations and the work of the government and the authorities produce the necessary results, an announcement from the Finance Committee to the Government is likely to come closer. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about Moderates' reservation No. 7 on financial market regulation and supervision. Jobs are created by companies that grow and hire. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenue, which in turn finances our common welfare. Four out of five new jobs are created in smaller companies. Political decisions can have a decisive impact on the conditions and opportunities for smaller companies to grow and employ. We Moderates therefore believe that we must contribute to improving the conditions and conditions for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. In the field of financial markets, as several others have pointed out earlier, the regulatory framework for banking and financial firms has been tightened several times in recent years. The aim has been to contribute to increased financial stability in the context of the financial crisis. However, stricter rules can hamper competition and make it more difficult for smaller companies to grow. We Moderates therefore want to make the rules simpler for smaller companies. We believe that the Government should commission Finansinspektionen to review how the regulatory framework can be simplified for smaller players in the banking and financial markets so that competition can increase without jeopardising market reliability. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in paragraph 2 of the report on safe card payments, paragraph 5 on credit information and on reservation 7.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-434	Mr President, I would like to I have a quiet little wonder. First of all, I share the view of simplification of the rules. I have had the privilege of sitting on the Committee on Industry and Industry in the past to note that we had a debate on it all the time. As I mentioned in my speech, some sectors have succeeded enormously in this because they have worked together between the department and the authorities and have thus been able to get a good regulatory simplification. However, for various reasons this is not the case in the financial sector. I got a little interested. One thing we have agreed on in terms of regulatory simplification is that we cannot have different regulations for large and small companies or micro-enterprises, which have been talked about at European level – we call it something else in Sweden. But what I find interesting here is that you should walk away from that principle now. If so, could Jan Ericson point out which regulations would change without violating EU law?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-437	Mr President, I would like to I can only relate to my own background. I have thus worked as a lawyer in one of the four major banks and seen how much work it takes within a bank to be able to handle the regulations that exist. There are quite large staffs of both lawyers and others who constantly follow up, prevent problems and change the bank's agreements, terms and conditions. What's in common with this is that it's always the customers who have to pay for the party, because it costs quite a lot of money to handle the regulations. I also do not believe that there can be different rules in the various banks on the substance. On the other hand, I believe that the rules can be applied differently in terms of detail and so on. This could certainly be reviewed. Then there is the regulatory framework in all activities that could be simplified if you wanted to. This would perhaps make it easier for both large and small companies. We do not put our foot down and say what rules can be changed or removed. We want Finansinspektionen to have this task to see what could be done without, as I said, jeopardising the reliability of the market.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-441	Mr President, I would like to The problem with the rules we have in the financial sector is that almost everything – with a few exceptions – is European regulation. It's very hard to change it. Then you should go to the European Commission and then it should be negotiated with Parliament and so on. It can take years if you succeed in doing so. There does not seem to be a huge ambition on the part of finance ministers, regardless of their political colour. I can't remember Anders Borg saying no to any rules because they hit small financial corporations. I did not hear that in any case in the EU Council, and I was a member there for almost all the time that Anders Borg was Minister of Finance. Its application must also be uniform for all companies. On the other hand, I agree that something should be done about this in some way. With regard to all the work that I put into this issue for eight years, a meeting of the Committee on Finance is enough for it to be deleted. You just load even more rules. It is a huge regulatory burden imposed on financial institutions, but it has been important for the stability of the macro-economy.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-443	Mr President, I would like to I am fully aware that there is a great deal that is run by the European Union, but not everything is controlled from there. We also have national rules in some areas. Moreover, implementing rules are not always EU-led. When it comes to how Sweden designs the regulations at home to implement EU legislation and how we then handle supervision, we have a certain amount of space ourselves. But, as I said, the Financial Supervisory Authority is experts on this. Let it look at this. It is only to be said that it is not a simple story to start a new bank today; we can agree on that. If we want competition and want it not only the four major banks to have a monopoly in Sweden, it is quite important to make it easier for niche banks and niche operators to be involved in stirring a bit. We now see how big banks give virtually zero percent interest on customers' accounts. If there are niche players who offer interest, people move their money away from the big banks. This is a way of using competition to influence conditions. This also applies to the companies' side. This is really important. But, as I said, let the Financial Supervisory Authority have the confidence to see what and if something can be done in this area.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-447	Mr President, I would like to I sometimes think that we in Parliament are a little against the motion. In the text of the report on my proposal that it should be a market solution that should be self-financed by companies in relation to the deposit guarantee, the committee says that it is a good idea. But then you reject my bet 3. I could have approved rather than failed when I put forward proposals on which everyone agrees. The main thing is that we agree. It is not the taxpayers who should take the risk when the banks do not manage their finances, but they must manage themselves in a risk-valued insurance market. It's liberal and good, all parties think. The committee has slightly misunderstood my proposal on complementary local currencies. They aim to create access to risk capital for businesses, private individuals and various rural activities that find it difficult to obtain loans from centrally managed commercial banks. Bristol pound works excellently as currency. There is a system since 1934 in Switzerland that has acted as a catalyst for small businesses to obtain money. I wanted to see how the Tax Agency can ensure that the state receives tax while introducing the new way of obtaining capital, especially in rural areas and perhaps also in vulnerable urban areas, so that people there have an opportunity to invest. In addition, there are time dollars in the United States where you pay with time, and then you get goods, services, or money for that time. The complementary methods allow more people to occupy themselves, and that is something that we all agree on is a good thing. I find it a little strange that they say that they are not in favour of this because they said no to a reform of the Nordic currency. It had a completely different political purpose. It is not at all the same, so I am a little unhappy that the committee is saying no to this excellent idea without even having analysed the proposals carefully. The capital adequacy framework is comprehensive. The version that I read contained 1,266 pages, and it contained a lot of mathematical formulas. I have studied chemistry at KTH, but it was complicated to understand how the regulations work. Moreover, it is full of loopholes that only lawyers can handle. Why should we make everything so complicated? My simple suggestion is to adapt it to the Chicago Plan. The economists who were in favour of the neoliberal economy said: No, the production of capital must nevertheless be under government control. If you have a hundred percent capital adequacy requirement you get out seign orage, that is, every krona created in Sweden we get taxpayers paid for. The banks must buy it from the Riksbank. Then we get a debt-free generation of government money. The banks that make money out of our money then have to pay a small fee to the state, and it is quite reasonable that a crown has a value at all. Our money is just useless cotton pieces or ones and zeros at e n bank. A note is just paper-- it's not worth anything. But with the help of regulations, guarantees and credibility, we have invested the entire economy in making money worth something. Why should the banks be able to create so much value and earn all the money? No, they get to buy them from us taxpayers who have created the currency. That is right and reasonable, and I think the committee could have endorsed that proposal. At least you should take a closer look at it. Other benefits of this are the disappearance of the risk of bank rushes. Every dollar in the bank has coverage. The risks of getting bubbles and collapses are also reduced. Then we will have a more stable and secure lending, a safer and more secure banking system, and we will raise billions each year in revenue that will create our money. Then you can remove some distortive taxes. It should appeal to both the Alliance and the Red-Green. It's a good reform. Let's take a closer look at it. I will come back to it in detail next year. Then there is the MiFID acquis. It is now under way in Sweden. When I wrote the exercise, it wasn't finished. But it is a question of many people dying and of revolutions that can arise when you have to spend too much of your income to pay for food. There is a clear connection here. If people have to spend more than 40% of their income on food, then there is often a revolution. Then why should we allow bank speculators to sell 93% of all pigs? They're just air. They don't even exist. It is just speculation, and it applies not only to pigs, but also to many raw materials. Why should we allow speculation of air that leads to starvation and death to make some money in an uncertain way? The EU has said that raw material speculation must now be tackled, and the same should apply to food. Sweden will make proposals in 2018. Then I hope it will be a good regulation, so that people do not die because of speculation with fictitious pigs and other food.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-460	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy is developing strongly. We have higher growth than the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany and the highest growth in the Nordic countries. Unemployment is the lowest in seven years, and 80 000 more people have a job to go to. Youth unemployment is falling particularly rapidly, and long-term unemployment is the lowest across the EU. We also see a statement of strength for Swedish exports. According to Business Sweden, Swedish exports take shares on the world market for the first time in 20 years. Both the IT sector and the automotive industry are strong, and last year the number of notifications was the lowest since 2007. Swedish industry is far from doing this basically. The large number of asylum seekers last year represents unforeseen and inescapable increases in expenditure. However, thanks to the government's responsibility and a tight policy, we have created room for manoeuvre. In spite of exceptional reception of asylum, we are thus able to reduce deficits significantly compared to those we inherited. We will be able to meet the expenditure ceilings, and in the coming years public debt will be reduced as a percentage of GDP. At the same time, we see major challenges ahead. Despite good growth and almost 100,000 job vacancies, more than 350 000 people are still unemployed. The exceptionally high number of asylum seekers will require continued efforts. We also see a slowdown in the economy of the outside world. We have challenges ahead of us that we have a great focus on. At the same time, we can stop and enjoy increased growth, more jobs and more people in employment. The Swedish economy is doing well!
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-465	We should not get caught up in what it used to be, but let us still remember how it sounded as late as a few years ago. If the tax rebate for all young people who already had jobs were removed, thousands of young people would be allowed to leave their jobs. Instead, unemployment is now at its lowest level in almost a decade. If we adjusted the rules for RUT and ROT to more reasonable conditions, the industries would collapse. That's not what we've seen. If we stepped up the job tax deduction for those with the highest incomes, people would no longer be educated, take that little extra responsibility or want to become managers. Has anyone seen it happen? No. As usual, it's wrong. On the contrary, in the longer term, when societies are held together, it will also create better conditions for the economy to develop. When more people are allowed to contribute, when more people are allowed to take part in what we create and when more people are given the opportunity to develop, the conditions for growth are created. Mr President, I would like to Over the last ten years, Sweden has been one of the countries that has received the highest number of asylum seekers per inhabitant of the EU. From an average of around 30 000 asylum seekers per year, 163 000 asylum seekers, 35 000 of them unaccompanied children and young people came last year. The people who get asylum and stay here need a place to live, just like everyone else. They will train in Swedish and get the skills needed to get a job. There's supposed to be teachers teaching. There should be nurses, doctors and curators for those who need. There's a lot you can buy for money, but building homes, schools and health centers takes time. Training and recruiting teachers, social secretaries and nurses also takes time. And there are things you can't solve even if you save, increase income or borrow more. The background to the agreement on the response to the refugee crisis and the additional proposals made by the government to reduce the number of people seeking asylum in Sweden is no more difficult than that. We should be proud of our country's great humanitarian effort, but when the EU burst into solidarity and joint responsibility, the situation became unsustainable. That's why the government is acting. That's why the government takes responsibility. We will continue to do so. Work to distribute refugees more evenly within the EU continues, and we continue to do what is necessary to cope with reception and establishment in Sweden. We're going to have a country that works for everyone who comes here and everyone who already lives here. We shall have a regulated and orderly reception of refugees, and people shall feel secure in knowing that we have order and order. Mr President, I would like to Our amending budget is mainly about dealing with the fact that many people have applied for asylum in Sweden. The Finnish Immigration Service receives additional resources to arrange accommodation and food and to shorten processing times. For those who receive asylum, work is the key to establishment. Therefore, the government proposes additional resources for skills mapping for asylum seekers, increased validation and a new fast track for entrepreneurs. The RUT deduction is extended to new services. As work is the key to establishment, language is often the key to work. To this end, the training for new arrivals will be strengthened by investing in SFI and Swedish as a second language, through further training of teachers and through support for new school premises. With more asylum seekers, there will be more rejections of asylum cases. People who are denied their asylum application must leave Sweden. Therefore, the police and the Migration Agency are given increased resources to carry out this important work. It is essential for the legitimacy of asylum reception and for us to have regulated immigration. In our amending budget, the government takes responsibility for the refugee situation. The authorities that receive additional tasks will be given additional resources, and the work on establishment will also be strengthened. But, Mr President, another way of taking responsibility in this situation is to ensure high quality in welfare. Welfare should be here in times of calm and everyday life, and it should be in times of anxiety and extraordinary events. This is why the government has recently presented a historic investment in Swedish welfare: another SEK 10 billion annually to municipalities and county councils. Together with previous government investments, this means that more than 30 000 people will be employed in welfare. All those who fight for our children in preschools and schools, for our oldest in retirement homes and for all of us when we get sick or have hurt us – al la de de de de gle glar mer kollego r. And this welfare should be offered on the basis of needs, not on the basis of one's ability to pay. What we are doing now is developing the Swedish model.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-484	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish model is based on several elements: high employment, strong and general well-being and strong and responsible social partners. This is not something you just say by tradition or some kind of clock faith, but this is important because it has produced results – and results. This model serves Sweden well. People are supposed to have work. You should be able to make a living on your job, and you should be able to feel safe in your everyday life. It is natural for us here in Parliament to decide what taxes we should charge and how we allocate common resources. Each party has its priorities, and this House is a good place to take that debate: what money are we going to raise, and how are we going to distribute it? Here politics has a very important role to play. But that we should debate next year how high or low wages should be set in different sectors or for different employees depending on their origins seems, to put it cautiously, less appropriate. Yet we have a situation in which the bourgeois parties talk openly about scrapping the Swedish party model and allowing the state, the Swedish parliament, to go in and lower wages. This is a clear conflict in Swedish politics. The parties behind this bill, which is cooperation between the government parties and the Left Party, stand up for free and strong parties. Politics should work for more people to get into work, not for those who work to earn less. Each country has its geniuses, and many countries have rich natural resources. But what distinguishes a truly successful country is to ensure that ordinary wage earners have security, welfare and a wage they can live on. This is the case for the Swedish model. This is what the Swedish model has delivered, and that is why we are fighting for the Swedish model.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-490	Mr President, I would like to We are all somehow affected by our common welfare. It is also something that we often talk about with pride when we are abroad: parental insurance, child benefit, preschool, care for the elderly – generally and with good quality for everyone. It's the Swedish model. It's based on work. Or to be even more precise: The Swedish model is based on the fact that the person who has income also pays tax. It's about doing the right thing, being a part of it. Few things undermine tax standards as when you discover that others do not do their part. Especially bad is it when those who have it very well indulge themselves in evading their responsibilities. What such people and companies do is pass on responsibility to others: low-income workers, pensioners and those who hardly know how to raise the rent. This is provocative in the real sense of the word. When people ice with small margins do so, it's usually called undeclared work. When it is done by those with far - reaching margins and sometimes even morals, it is called tax evasion. But regardless of whether this abuse is carried out at a market store or conveyed in strengthened white shirts, as a service to one of our major banks or law firms, that behaviour will be combated. The previous government took action, and this government has moved on. This involves, among other things, the introduction of human resources in more sectors. It is about concluding and pushing for more comprehensive international agreements in which the exchange of information trumps banking secrecy. It is also a question of responsible authorities having the necessary resources and setting an impeccably good example. Work on this will be intensified. It will require perseverance, international cooperation and hard work, but step by step the network will be tightened for those who, by not doing right themselves, are free-riding others. As a social democrat, I will never condone tax fraud.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-495	Mr President, I would like to This government is responsible for building a community, for responsibility, security and development. We want to strengthen the Swedish model, not phase it out. We have a lot of work ahead of us, but our way for Sweden is clear. With the Swedish model as a basis and with modernisation as a tool, we build a sustainable society where no one is left behind, but no one is held back.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-497	Mr President, I would like to There are different ways of dealing with uncertainty and anxiety. You can see the problems, paralysed by the fact that you have no solution and walk away. You can see the challenge and think that with a combination of talent, pragmatism and ingenuity we will find a solution. Or you can think: It wasn't this bad yesterday. I think it'll go over to tomorrow. Besides, we can afford to deal with the worries, so we don't do anything about them. Yesterday in the Financial Times, the Prime Minister launched a fourth view of this: You see the wrong things! You're looking at the wrong things. It is surreal that people do not perceive that all the figures pointing in the right direction is the important thing, rather than being paralysed by all the concerns that are here and now. But if the citizens do not feel that everything is going so well, perhaps it is not the people who are wrong. Perhaps it is the government that does not see what the citizens are seeing. Citizens see that half a million new arrivals have to be established in Sweden between 2012 and 2020. Citizens see that 180 000 people are in the asylum system. This corresponds to Uppsala's size. Citizens see that half of newcomers have only primary education or less. They see that unemployment is four times higher among overseas born than among Swedish born, and they see what the Employment Service saw yesterday, namely that half of the enrolled are now foreign born. What is it, the Minister for Finance, that is so surreal in experiencing that this is a significant concern for Sweden – so significant that it actually dominates the retina over the growth figures right now?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-502	Mr President, I would like to I would be much more concerned if, at this point, the government were to sit back and take no action. But that's not the case. Of course we should here and now rejoice that things are going very well for the Swedish economy, but we should never sit back. On the contrary, this government has taken a number of measures to strengthen Sweden and Swedish development in the future. These are measures for more people to get to work. It is a question of addressing, in this economic situation, the problems that we see in terms of matching. We have 100,000 vacancies while 350 000 people are still unemployed. We have to match the job vacancies with people who are unemployed. In addition to taking responsibility for more people getting into work and matching problems, the government has also taken responsibility for refugee policy. We saw that we had an unsustainable situation last autumn, and the government has taken strong and responsible action to deal with that situation. These measures have also had an effect, and we now see far fewer people applying for asylum in Sweden when they can instead apply for asylum in other safe EU countries. But the government does not sit back quietly in this, but here it is also about looking at the opportunities for the people who get asylum in Sweden. It is a question of strengthening the opportunities for establishment. We do so in the proposals that we are making here and now, but of course further proposals will be presented. Among other things, we come with 10 billion more to municipalities and county councils. It is also about ensuring that the people who do not get asylum in Sweden return. The government takes seriously the challenges ahead, but at the same time we will see that things are going well in the Swedish economy now.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-506	Mr President, I would like to If I have calculated correctly, the government's expenditure in the amending budget will be added to SEK 34 billion. About 1 per cent of these go with a little goodwill to describe as reforms that increase the chances for people to enter the Swedish labour market – 1 per cent! 99% is about completely different things than what a dominant proportion of Swedes think is the big concern here today. There is one page in the budget that I would recommend for reading, namely p. 131. It is difficult to access in the budget, but we have done a graph just to be sure, and the Minister for Finance will get it then. It's about the development of alienation. It is about how many more people will live entirely on social compensation in the coming years. It's amazing reading. We go from under 900 000 people to a barely million Swedes who are entirely supported by social benefits. You are currently increasing the Swedish exclusion.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-509	Mr President, I would like to Here Ulf Kristersson shows his image of education and other active efforts. What you call increased exclusion is largely about people who are in the start-up assignment, and many of them get an education. But that shows the Moderates' view of education. That is why you have not invested in education. The 30 billion that Ulf Kristersson is talking about is that people should have a place to live and get a roof over their heads. Does Ulf Kristersson think it's wrong? Then we're not just betting the 800 million he's talking about. We have also invested 10 billion in municipalities and county councils to strengthen welfare and ensure that more people get a job. I think this is a good initiative, and I am convinced that it will receive a great deal of support from the Swedish people. It is an important part of the Swedish model – and it develops the Swedish model – that we stand up for good and safe welfare. This government does.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-512	Mr President, I would like to In November last autumn, the government elected to contribute SEK 11 billion to the country's municipalities to meet the running costs of receiving new arrivals. In a follow-up motion, I then asked the government to try to find funding for this, and to guard itself and earmark this money so that it really goes to the core business of welfare. The answer I was given was that it is not only possible but even appropriate to borrow money and that the municipalities actually know best how to spend taxpayers' money themselves. A review showed that several municipalities had used the extra grant to pay off the municipal pension debt. A municipality had even renovated a hockey rink, of course for integration purposes. Let me give you what a couple of councillors have said: we feel like Santa Claus and Santa Claus. That's crazy. That must be wrong. What are we gonna do with them? For us, it becomes almost unreasonable to spend everything. Now the government wants to raise another SEK 10 billion, through borrowing, to meet once again the municipal immigration costs. I'm asking the same question I did last time. Can we, this time, have a guarantee that the money really goes to welfare and not into the black hole of integration policy created by the government?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-517	Mr President, I would like to I am not surprised that the municipal authorities are surprised by additional resources. After eight years of alliance rule, which has invested in tax cuts and cuts, this is a clear turn of policy. We want to stop tax cuts, cuts and privatisations and instead invest in and invest in Swedish welfare, so that we can develop the Swedish model. Oscar Sjöstedt wants you to earmark money. When you take the debate with Swedish democrats, it is often clear that they want everything to be controlled from Stockholm. They believe that it is Stockholm that best decides how the money should be used in Sveg, in Säffle, in Övertorneå or in Hörby. This is a clear policy on the part of the Swedish Democrats. I do not share that view. I believe that there is a very high level of competence among politicians around the country to assess the needs of the municipalities themselves. It is a foundation of municipal self-government. In the extension of what Oscar Sjöstedt says, we do not need to have municipal self-government. We do not need that unless we believe that people around the country have the competence to assess the needs of their own municipality. My assessment is that we have competent people all over Sweden and that this competence does not only exist in the Swedish Parliament. There the Social Democrats differ from the Swedish Democrats.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-521	Mr President, I would like to I do not agree with what is said. I don't really trust it either. This is mainly because I have a very low level of confidence in the Minister for Finance, which is all the same for the entire current minority. But if you really want to make a contribution to welfare, you must reasonably understand that there are needs that are not merely of a pecuniary nature. Indeed, the greatest need for well-being consists of properly trained and competent labour. Where is the long-term planning for welfare skills provision? Is there at all such a plan at the Ministry of Finance? If we are suffering from a lack of trained staff, which we are actually doing and which I think the Minister for Finance also agrees with, I wonder: would it not be better to spend these resources on training for the shortage professions that we see?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-524	Mr President, I would like to The Government has dedicated very large resources to a new and permanent knowledge transfer for Sweden. We are increasing the resources both for professional adult and for Komvux. We're expanding the university of applied sciences. We have also increased the number of places at the university with a special focus on some of the shortage professions that exist. Here the government has therefore implemented large and extensive initiatives. We think it is important to provide skills. In addition, municipalities have an opportunity to hire peripheral staff to relieve, for example, teachers, nurses and doctors. But the basic difference here is the view on where the competence is located in the country. There is a lot of expertise in Stockholm. I share Oscar Sjöstedt's view that there is a lot of expertise in Parliament. But what distinguishes me from Oscar Sjöstedt and other Swedish democrats is that I think there is a lot of expertise around Sweden.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-526	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson may be the Minister of Finance who announced that she would abandon the surplus target. She may be the Finance Minister who abandoned the principle of crown for crown. She may be the finance minister who removed employment estimates from the state budget. But she's also a finance minister who's lucky. Today I have asked myself the question: where would this government's economic policy have been if we had not gone into a boom right now? After nine alliance budgets and after the international economic cycle began, this is something that covers many of this government's many shortcomings. But what about after this boom? We can look at the government's own forecasts. In 2020, after four years of economic boom, the forecast is that balanced unemployment is increasing, employment is falling and labour force participation is falling. So we will have a worse labour market situation after a boom than before. Yesterday we received bad news from Spotify and Klarna. Again – it was a few decades ago – Swedish companies flag up because a slow socialist government risks forcing jobs, entrepreneurship and investment out of the country. In addition, we see a government that increases deficits and borrows in the midst of a fiery boom. Magdalena Andersson! Wouldn't it be a failure if your forecasts were to come true? Would it not be a failure, after four years of boom and high resource utilisation, to have a worse labour market situation, increased exclusion and lower employment? A boom is a time when we will build Sweden stronger and better, not the other way round.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-531	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström seems to have forgotten what happened last autumn. There are record numbers of people on the run in the world, and historically many people applied for asylum in Sweden – 163 000 people. It is clear that it is visible both in the state budget and in labour market statistics when these people come to work. If Emil Källström's migration and asylum policy had worked, the question is: what would the state finances have looked like, and what would the labour market statistics look like? It wouldn't have looked better. But if Emil Källström thinks that we should have surplus at this point, I naturally wonder: Will Emil Källström save 20 to 30 billion in his budget exercise that he will present in two weeks' time?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-533	Mr President, I would like to My budget bill will be more rigid than the government bill. I would like to point out that I have not given up hope that we can create a labour market in which all the people who have come to our country for various reasons come to work considerably faster than today. That is why we are putting forward proposals for proposals to improve the business environment and to improve the labour market so that we have more ways in for more people. These are areas that the government responds to with total inaction. The biggest puck when it comes to more jobs in Sweden in your budget bill, Magdalena Andersson, comes from the Center Party, from the migration talks we had, where we agreed on what politics would look like. The extended RUT deduction, which is now the core of the government's employment policy, is, of course, the government's policy thanks to us. Here you go, Magdalena Andersson!
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-536	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emil Källström! I would be very concerned if the RUT deduction were at the heart of government employment policy. It's not!
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-537	On the other hand, along with lower wages, it is at the heart of the Centre Party's employment policy, and that makes me a little concerned. However, I share Emil Källström's ambition that the people who come to Sweden have to come to work faster, and that is why we have a series of proposals for this and will of course come up with further proposals. Emil Källström says he will have a more tight budget than I have. I believe that all four parties will have, according to the pattern that I established when I was an economic-political spokesperson. So I look forward to that. Emil Källström also says that we should have surpluses, so then I assume that he is surplus in his budget motion. Otherwise, his criticism falls flat to the ground.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-541	Mr President, I would like to Now Magdalena Andersson emptys the barns. This is something new in Swedish politics when a Minister of Finance comes to Parliament in a boom and borrows. If you pursue such an economic policy, Magdalena Andersson, and drive up health insurance, push up labour market policy programmes in boom and borrow in boom, the money is not there when it is really needed – when the interest rate rises and the recession comes. That puts welfare at risk, Magdalena Andersson. I was going to take the opportunity to talk about something that Magdalena Andersson is no longer talking about, namely the government's unemployment target. After all, this government has as its trademark to break the electoral promises. The most important election promise was to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Magdalena Andersson had 15 minutes in the speaker's chair but did not even mention the most important election promise. I read Dagens Nyheter this morning about economic policy. It wasn't mentioned there either. I understand why you don't talk about it anymore, Magdalena Andersson. It is because no one thinks it will be reached. We from the Liberals have produced figures on how we stand. In 2014, there were twelve of us in the EU circle. In 2015, there were twelve of us in the EU circle. In 2016, there are twelve of us in the EU circle. In 2017, there are twelve of us in the EU circle. Then unemployment starts to rise, and in the three years Magdalena Andersson will meet this goal. There is one reason why you are not reaching the target, and that is that you systematically raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. You refuse to implement the reforms needed in the labour market to get the low-skilled into work. You send the Minister for Labour to yell at the owners of a company in southern Sweden that is moving production. Then Spotify writes a letter saying that government policy might make them move. You don't even answer Spotify's questions. You had a panic policy on refugee policy last autumn which will make it harder for refugees to get jobs.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-548	Mr President, I would like to The government has high ambitions in terms of unemployment, and that is why we have set ourselves a very ambitious target. As we can see in the forecast that we are presenting today, we are also closer to the target than at the forecast that we had in December. Of course, it is a tough and ambitious goal, and it will be tougher to achieve it given that many people will be new to the labour market in the coming years. We know that it is more difficult for people who are new to the labour market. Both young people and people who have recently moved to Sweden find it more difficult to get a job. This makes it harder to reach the target than it would have been if we had not had that situation. However, this does not prevent the government from having a very clear focus on work, on more people getting into work and on bringing down unemployment. Only in the product we are leaving today do we have a series of skills mapping, validation and a special fast track for newly arrived entrepreneurs. We have also implemented a series of measures that include matching people who are currently unemployed to the jobs that are emerging, closing the recruitment gap and having a more active education and labour market policy. It is about increasing investment and getting up the housing building, which is important for Spotify. The bourgeois government did not do enough, but we are now talking about being able to make further efforts. It is also about running an active business policy, so the government has a clear focus and a clear job agenda. Erik Ullenhag is now criticising the fact that we have a deficit in the economic boom. It is my assessment that we have reduced the deficit as much as we have precisely in order to be able to meet unforeseen and temporary expenditure without having to implement very drastic savings or tax increases. I assume that now that Erik Ullenhag is criticising his budget motion, he will save 20 to 30 billion. Is that so, Erik Ullenhag?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-556	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance can rest assured that we will have a tighter budget than the government. It won't be that hard. It is not very difficult to cope with the budget that is now on Parliament's table. What concerns me is not the Liberals' budget motion. What concerns me is that when you pursue such an economic policy, it is the children and grandchildren who are at risk of being affected in a situation when you have to cut back, because there are no suspenders and belting. It is the foundation to make sure to join the plus in boom in order to be able to meet the unforeseen in recession that Magdalena Andersson abandons. Then I try to listen very carefully to Magdalena Andersson. Was the promise repeated, or is it starting to float? It will be more difficult to reach the unemployment target. I can give Magdalena Andersson a couple of quick tips: Throw a few of these proposals from panic policy last autumn in the trash basket! It is not a good idea that it takes two years for people who have fled to Sweden to receive a residence permit. It is not a good idea to only receive a temporary residence permit for 13 months. It's not a good idea to separate children from their parents. Fewer will get a job. I am rewording the question, Magdalena Andersson: When will you announce that the government is not reaching the unemployment target?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-560	Mr President, I would like to The government will strive for Sweden to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. On the other hand, I do not think I want to take the advice of Erik Ullenhag, because the policy of the Liberals is essentially about two things at the moment: raising rents and lowering wages. I do not think that is a good policy for Sweden. Erik Ullenhag repeats that you should join the plus in the boom. I assume that Erik Ullenhag lives accordingly in his budget exercise and ensures that he has a plus in public finances. This government has conducted a very tight and responsible economic policy. This means that we have more than halved the deficits that we inherited after the time when Erik Ullenhag was in government. We have also strengthened the structural deficit, and we have done so precisely so that we can meet unforeseen costs without having to resort to drastic and dramatic measures. That's the room for manoeuvre we're using now. Erik Ullenhag does not want to use it. Then make sure to have zero in your budget!
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-564	Mr President, I would like to I understood from the Minister for Finance's speech that she is satisfied with the economic situation and also pleased with the previous reforms of the Alliance, which have laid a good foundation and have done so until four months ago. She is pleased that it is ours and that the sun shines. Then it doesn't feel so fun to come like John Snow and say: Winter is coming. But that's the way it is. Winter is coming, and it is the government's duty to equip Sweden with the challenges we face. We are now seeing estimates of an increase in balanced unemployment by 2020. No one outside the Government Office believes that the government will reach its own unemployment target, and there is nothing in the Spring Bill to change that assessment. Many people are already outside in the cold and are not entering the labour market. I would like the Minister of Finance to see these people much more clearly, because it is high time to equip Sweden with structural reforms to lower the thresholds in the labour market. But with the government, the reform factory is out. Magdalena Andersson says in her speech that it does not matter if you halve the ceiling in RUT. It doesn't make any difference. It doesn't matter if you raise taxes by 40 billion on jobs and entrepreneurship. It does not matter to introduce a special wage tax on older people. But what do we see happening? What happened when you did this to the RUT roof? Well, you see a dramatic trend break in the RUT sector. Net sales decreased by 8 per cent in January 2016. 63 percent of RUT companies say they expect to reduce the number of employees in the future. Is this the kind of change we need in an industry that is now creating jobs, where four out of five come from dismissal, where half are born abroad and many have a low level of education? The fact that Magdalena Andersson does not see these people who find it so difficult to get into the Swedish labour market, but instead points their finger at those who have proposals, I do not think that anyone should be left behind.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-570	Mr President, I would like to I do not share Jakob Forssmed's view that we are pointing the finger at someone who has proposals – quite the opposite. We are happy to accept good proposals and we are also prepared to discuss them. But then there are proposals that we do not think are very good, for example that the state and the Swedish parliament should take over the wage setting. We think that is a bad proposal. I won't say we're pointing fingers, but we're arguing. On the other hand, we are absolutely prepared to take on board good proposals and discuss them, if they have an impact on unemployment. What this government has done is to ensure that we equip Sweden. We took over after eight years of alliance government in a situation where budget deficits had increased every year. During the financial crisis, this was justified, but at the end of the last parliamentary term, in the economic upturn, the tax rate continued to decrease in a way that continued to increase budget deficits. What we did when we took over government power was to reverse that development. We made sure to put tight budgets on Parliament's table, and we made sure to grab the public finances and conduct a tight policy. This means that we have created some room for manoeuvre. The situation of unexpectedly many people seeking asylum shows how good it was that we were conducting such a tight policy. What if we had ended up in that situation when the Alliance ruled instead, when deficits were increasing all the time? Then it would have been difficult to have room for manoeuvre to deal with the situation. It is thanks to the government's strict policy that we have this space now. Now we will ensure that the people who get asylum in Sweden have the opportunity to establish themselves here in the best way. Those who do not receive asylum shall return. We will ensure that we strengthen and secure Swedish welfare for everyone in Sweden, both those who have lived here for a long time and those who have come new.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-574	Mr President, I would like to It is the Alliance's budgets that have laid the foundations for the good public finances that we see. But what principles govern now? We don't know that. We know that the Minister of Finance has now most recently abandoned the principle of crown for crown and says that there is some room for manoeuvre. We do not know what limits that room for manoeuvre in the future – there is nothing about this in the spring bill, and that may also be a reason for some concern. Magdalena Andersson says: We are for all good proposals. But where are your own suggestions? What is your answer to what the IMF, the OECD and the Council of Finance are saying, that we need to find ways to lower the thresholds, to enable people to enter somewhat lower wages, to be able to learn the job at work, not to be condemned to exclusion and to not get a chance to enter? Is the Minister of Finance really serious about what she said in her speech, that it does not matter how much tax it is, that you can spend 40 billion in taxes on working and hiring, and that does not matter to jobs, no matter how much it is for welfare funding? In such cases, it's a little magic.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-577	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed wonders what principles govern fiscal policy. It is, of course, governed by the fiscal framework, which consists of three parts. It is both the expenditure ceilings, which we have taken steps to achieve, and the surplus target, where we have taken steps to break the path that prevailed during the alliance period, when deficits increased all the time. Instead, we are now seeing a reduction in deficits. The third part is the requirement for local government balance. It is the fiscal framework that has governed Social Democratic Finance Ministers before me and which, of course, also governs my work. On the other hand, it is not part of the fiscal framework but has been a method that we have used to bring the deficits down sharply. We have succeeded in doing so too. However, it is not an appropriate method to use in this situation, is my assessment. But Jakob Forssmed seems to think so. Then I assume that Jakob Forssmed will save 30 billion in his budget exercise. I look forward to seeing that.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-581	Mr President, I would like to Last summer's Greek drama was about the euro. There was no grexitis, but the euro countries are still struggling with huge problems. This summer it's about Britain. In a Brexit, one of Europe's most dynamic economies risks leaving the EU, with totally incalculable political and economic consequences. But it is not only Europe that is struggling with great concern. The recovery in the US economy is weaker than many hoped, and no one knows where China is really going – neither politically nor economically. From this there is one conclusion: In global competition, there is no room for Swedish wishful thinking or lax economic policy. We live on export to the world around us. Mr President, I would like to It is a bit ironic that the Finance Minister who just 18 months ago claimed that the barns were empty had to rule a whole year with an alliance budget that halved the deficits. Now the Swedish economy is growing faster than that of many other countries. But growth of between 2 and 4 percent does not occur in a vacuum. It was the structural reforms of the 1990s, the wise management of the financial crisis, the increase in employment and the decline in exclusion that laid the foundation for modern Swedish growth. In addition, the Swedish economy is almost doped right now. Monetary policy is highly expansionary with negative interest rates, and fiscal policy increases public spending as if we were in the deepest recession. At the same time, unemployment is low among those who have education while the use of resources in the Swedish economy is high. This economic policy is not sustainable. If Sweden has negative interest rates and expansionary fiscal policies at 4 per cent growth – and when the cyclically dependent unemployed is close to zero – what will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do when Sweden has low growth and rising unemployment? The government is pursuing an economic policy as if our country will never face a crisis again. Economic policy risks creating overheating instead of solving Sweden's fundamental problems. You know, hangovers can come the next day. Let me point out two key errors in the government's economic policy. Firstly, the government is mismanaging public finances. The government is letting go of public spending, and deficits are now growing in the Swedish economy. In practice, the surplus target is already abandoned. If the government wanted to achieve its own balance-sheet target, it would already require significant surpluses for several years. But the government doesn't even try. The deficit in central government finances will increase by 60 per cent next year and, despite growth, will amount to SEK 30 billion. The government no longer finances its current expenditure, but builds welfare on loans, when we should build welfare on work.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-591	Let me be clear: the Moderates will not contribute to Sweden abandoning the principle of budgetary surpluses. Crown for crown, we have called the principle that new reforms must be fully funded. So if you want to increase spending in one area, you have to reduce it on another – or you have to stand for raising the tax. As late as December, Magdalena Andersson said that she naturally and as soon as possible wants to be able to implement unfunded reforms. I myself long for something completely different. I want the Swedish economy to grow, not just because all cranes are open but because everyone is expected to work and contribute – an economy that has resources left when everything looks dark, because I think those times are coming back. Sweden has a proven weak government that runs a wry policy. But worse is the government's lack of economic strategy. The Minister of Finance may not care that I am raising questions, but should be concerned that no one else seems to understand what the government really wants either. The Financial Policy Council wrote in December 2015: a clear plan is required for the government to achieve its public financial savings target. Such a plan is missing. ..................................................... The government reveals an incomprehensible unconcerned, almost frivolous attitude to the need for tight rein in economic policy. In Magdalena Andersson's Ministry of Finance, you say that you invest a lot when you don't have the energy to prioritise. But what you really mean is that you spend.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-597	Mr President, I would like to The second major mistake is that the government underestimates Sweden's challenges. The integration of several hundred thousand new arrivals in our country and in our labour market is the greatest challenge of the coming years. If we mismanage it, our children will ask whether we didn't understand better or whether we did most of what was done in historian Barbara Tuchman's readable book The Paths of Foolishness: We saw the problems, we understood them, and discreet people in our own time even warned about them and said that it will go bad if we don't do something – and yet we did nothing. We have a major problem ahead of us. New figures from the parliamentary investigation service show that only one in four refugees and relatives are self-sufficient after eight years in Sweden. Only one in three is self-sufficient after 15 years. Unless more people work more and can support themselves and contribute taxes, the whole foundation of the Swedish welfare model is challenged. If we fail to do this, the great monetary costs will be surpassed only by the even greater social problems. This leads to long-term mass unemployment among people who do not have the skills required at the moment but who are also not allowed to start their career in a simpler job. The government's halving of the RUT deduction is a step in exactly the wrong direction. This also means that their children are not allowed to see their mother and father go to work in the morning and come home with their own money. This in turn leads to the inheritance of exclusion, to even worse segregation, to increasing problems in our schools and to people who want to believe in an international, open and successful Sweden instead starting to believe in simple solutions. We are not talking about the distant future. We are already seeing this today. The unemployment rate is four times higher for non-Europeans than for natives. The probability of social assistance dependency is 1 out of 100 among natives but 10 out of 100 among foreign-borns. That is simply not how it should continue. Mr President, I would like to Instead of doing something about all this, the government is now blowing to battle for a new, nostalgic version of the Swedish model. But the government does not seem to see the problems at all. The other day, the government discovered that it was urgent to change the duration of temporary residence permits from 12 months to 13 months – otherwise new arrivals would not automatically benefit from all Swedish welfare benefits. On the same day it became apparent that it was almost impossible for an asylum seeker who wants to work to work as well. Even responsible authorities did not know how it could be done legally. When the bureaucracy had finally been proven and the job was actually done, some other authority replied by reducing the asylum seeker's daily allowance for each earned crown in salary – 100% marginal tax, extremely accurate. The Swedish Government is therefore changing the rules so that no new arrivals will miss any grants but does almost nothing to allow more people to earn their own money instead. In Magdalena Andersson's Sweden it is easy to get a grant and difficult to get a job. In my Sweden it is exactly the opposite.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-607	Mr President, I would like to Finally, Sweden is a fantastic country, and we have solved difficult problems before. We have reformed politics when, despite good intentions, it has no longer worked, because in Sweden, the welfare state, we combine strong values with pragmatic solutions. Sweden opened up to freedom of choice when many felt stifled by public monopolies, and we restored the work line when exclusion became too large. We didn't do all this because Sweden was bad in some way but because Sweden was becoming something we didn't want Sweden to be. Now we are trying out who we are who can handle the task of meeting the challenges of our time and who prefers to put their head in the sand.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-609	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson speaks warm for crown for crown. I just have one question for Ulf Kristersson that I would like to have a yes or no on. Does this mean that Ulf Kristersson will finance the increased funding to the Migration Agency of 30 billion, which is needed for them to manage the livelihoods of those who apply for asylum in Sweden now, crown for crown in their budget motion? I would like a yes or no to that question.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-611	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance is asking the question against better judgment. She knows that when it comes to emergency expenses, which cannot be pared, crown for crown has never been applied. She knows that what we think is that active reforms that increase expenditure permanently in the Swedish economy will be financed crown for crown if you want to return to surplus in the economy. Otherwise, you can ignore it.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-612	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ulf Kristersson for a clear and comprehensive answer. Here the moderate policy is very clear. When it was about lowering the tax, most of all for those who earn the most, then crown was not applied to crown. Then it was good to spend money even though the deficits increased in a cyclical upturn. Then crown was not meant for crown. Ulf Kristersson is clear now. He can accept any number of asylum seekers and finance it without financing it crown by crown. But when we want to strengthen the school for all children who are in Sweden, when we want to secure a safe care for the elderly and when we want to secure preschool, then suddenly there will be a huge caccal room in the moderate ranks. There we see the dividing line in Swedish politics.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-614	Mr President, I would like to This is a home-made economic theory that no normal judge of the Swedish economy would agree with. If you want to permanently increase welfare spending and permanently increase health insurance expenditure because you cannot, want to or dare to do anything or if you want to raise your ambitions in other areas, this should be fully financed if you think you are going back to surplus in the economy. Alternatively, of course, tax can be increased. That is how everyone else who looks at the Swedish economy would judge the task. But this is not how the government evaluates it because the government has set itself to settle with the surplus target, trixing with the expenditure ceilings and now definitely dropping the crown for the crown. Don't forget that crown for crown is meaningful only if you want to go back to surplus. Otherwise, it's completely pointless. If we always have 4% growth in the economy, if we always have a boom and if we always have the conditions that we have right now, forget about the crown!
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-616	Mr President, I would like to It is my genuine view that the Moderates have taken a number of decisions and initiatives that ensure a more realistic view of Sweden's immigration policy. Several of these initiatives are also quite plagiarism of proposals that the Swedish Democrats have previously put forward. But that doesn't bother me at all. On the contrary, I am delighted. We have not taken a patent on our own policy. Other games will have to copy it very much. If you believe some opinion polls, this course rescheduling has even rendered a certain return. But, Mr President, how credible are Ulf Kristersson and his party? When they talk about intensification of welfare and benefit systems, they only apply to those who have a so-called temporary residence permit. Let me therefore remind you of some figures. Last year a total of 183 individuals received a temporary residence permit out of a total of 147 000 individuals who received a residence permit. Over a ten-year period, there are more than 1 000 comparations with well over 1 million residence permits. Thus, the so-called intrusions of immigration policy by the Moderates affect only one per mil of all those who have been granted a residence permit. I'm going to travel a certain Republican presidential candidate: You are weak on immigration.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-620	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I got the question right. I've been working on these issues, fairly systematically, since 2007-2008. I have tried to preach to those who wanted to listen a position that Sweden should be an international, open country. Part of Sweden's historical success lies in internationalisation and openness, and even more so, our future success will lie in Sweden being an international, attractive and solidarity-based society. That is my firm opinion. I have never understood that you have really had the entrances to the internationalisation discussion, Oscar Sjöstedt. Now that you are saying that we are facing a situation in which a few hundred thousand people have arrived recently and that it creates extreme strain on Swedish society – let us openly and honestly take that challenge! Let us also say that it is not self-evident that you should have access to all Swedish welfare benefits automatically and immediately when you come to Sweden. Let us pay tribute to the basic idea we have had for a long time in Sweden, namely that it is through work that you basically work your way into welfare systems. I think this is a natural development of the systems we have today. I do not understand why this contradicts the fact that we have historically had fewer temporary residence permits. Today it is natural to have it that way. If you think this is good, I don't mind, Oscar Sjöstedt.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-624	Mr President, I would like to The point was, so to speak, that you have quite a high tail in rhetoric but very little concrete action. But by all means! I have made it clear – and my party leader has made it clear – that we are prepared to support several of the initiatives presented by the Moderates, given that they are also presented in this House. Only last Thursday, I, Ulf and the rest of the members of the Finance Committee sat and ran over the government on a rather relevant issue. It was a motion from the Christian Democrats, from Jakob. From where it comes I don't care, but I was behind it because it was a good exercise. Then the rest of the alliance parties supported it, and it won the majority. Was it terrible then that the Alliance took the support of the Swedish Democrats? Did something unpleasant happen? I know you do not have the courage to agree on a regular spring budget, but please – try to agree on the amending budget, and we can put an end to a small part of this government's insanity.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-627	Mr President, I would like to What I suspect the Swedish Democrats are pursuing is that the Alliance would like active support from the Swedish Democrats for a common economic policy, in order to convict the government. My answer is very simple: I do not want to bring down a government by a majority I do not think can agree on a serious economic policy. It's very simple. It does not condemn a – very weak – government to form a weaker government on a weak parliamentary basis unless it is convinced that it works. I have many objections to your policy in general, Oscar Sjöstedt. The main objection is about your view of internationalisation and Sweden's place in the world, but I would also say that you are one of several parties in Parliament that I would not give veto rights to any budget decision.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-629	Mr President, I would like to Last time we debated the budget, Ulf Kristersson and the Moderates spoke warmly to raise environmental taxes. Yet the Moderates then rejected the government's proposed environmental taxes. One explanation could have been to suggest others, as some bourgeois parties did. For example, the Moderates signalled that a chemical tax should be introduced. It was done in a joint proposal by the bourgeois parties, and in a motion from last autumn the Moderates had their own proposal on that line. So I thought it was a common message from the bourgeois parties, but lately it seems increasingly inclined that the Moderates do not want a chemical tax anyway. Sweden's economy is strong, and we are equipped to modernise Sweden. The government has already increased support for electric cars, solar cells and biogas. The goal is for Sweden to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. At the same time, we can reduce the burden on the Earth's common resources, and then the environmental tax is a powerful tool. The spring budget presents six taxes that make it cheaper and easier to live environmentally friendly. Last autumn, however, the Moderates said no to the efforts the government is now making, such as protection of and measures for valuable nature, climate change, support for solar cells and other measures for sustainable community building. It was not entirely unexpected because they did not want to carry out such reforms themselves when they ruled. However, I did not think that the Moderates would be so negative to all kinds of increased environmental taxes. I see different news from day to day – one day you agree within the Alliance, and the other day the Moderates have changed foot and are trying to slow down. My question to Ulf Kristersson is therefore partly how he views the chemical tax, which has now been subject to a referral, and also what other environmental taxes Ulf Kristersson plans for us to meet the sustainability target.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-634	Mr President, I would like to We will come back to all the tax proposals that are before us, both those in the government's proposals that we think are extremely bad and those that we can very well discuss. They will be returned to, with a full report, before 2 May. However, this is not where the shoe really squeezes, but the real shoe squeezes into the view of which policy benefits the environment. It is clear that one could always agree with you to increase taxes on just anything, but it is clear that we will not allow ourselves to be used to systematically raise taxes if we cannot at the same time reduce taxes – of course not. That is why it is not possible to break out of either environmental policy or economic policy as a whole. We are keen to have effective instruments. We are keen to have a technology-driven environmental policy. We are keen that innovations that improve the environment have as much leeway as possible. This is normally neither economic policy nor environmental policy the government is trying to have. Instead, you have consistently pushed forward the kind of policy that is about zero growth, Janine Alm Ericson, that is, things that simply run across our whole fundamental view of what creates a good society and an environmentally sustainable society. We will not accept the details of such a policy just because that particular matter would benefit your interests.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-638	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know how to interpret Ulf Kristersson's answer, but an old Shakespeare quote comes to me: ..................................................... It feels a bit like every time we talk about these things in this House it sounds like this: the Moderates will come up with proposals, such things that lead to a better environment, even if you may not like the tax resource. But right now we don't get any suggestions from the Moderates. It is very bad on the environmental policy side. This applies, of course, both fiscally, which we know is a classically good instrument, and other things. The government has several excellent proposals in the spring budget, such as making shoes, clothes and bicycles better and cheaper. It saves energy and creates jobs. But does Ulf Kristersson think that his habit is faithful to saying no to all these proposals when it becomes a real situation, or is there a plan that we have not yet looked at actually putting forward proposals that benefit the environment?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-641	Mr President, I would like to What I was trying to say was that environmental policy must also be included in a whole. You can't break out some parts. It is clear that we can discuss whether it is a good idea to reduce VAT on certain services, but with all due respect I do not think it is a dominant part of an environmental policy strategy. I believe, for example, that climate issues, energy system issues and nuclear energy – with all due respect – are a little bigger issues and that that is where we need to start if we are to have a coherent environmental policy that is linked to a comprehensive economic policy. I don't see you there at all, Janine Alm Ericson.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-642	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by congratulating you, Ulf Kristersson. That's the worst thing I've heard in a long time! You were like a free-crying preacher in the middle of a doomsday sermon. Eight and a half minutes were about the misery we have, one minute was about what the Moderates have done before, and not one word was about what future the Moderates want to map out. I have to say, it was kind of hard to keep up with what you meant. Yet you complained that taxes are being increased, and at the next moment you complained that you are not doing enough to reach the surplus target. It felt like you got lost there in your doomsday sermon. Maybe you got a little lost in the pancake. What I wanted to talk about with you, however, was the fundamental discussion you wanted to open up to. Which parts of the welfare should be entitled to? Well, it's pretty well known from the past that the Moderates always want to attack welfare systems. One time it is young people who have been used as bats, and the next time it is the elderly, the sick, the disabled or the unemployed. You always find some reason, and now they're refugees. But it's been a while since you opened the discussion, and then you should have had time to think. It may be the school you should crop, or the health care system or the security system. Sometimes I wonder, why not all of it at once? Let's say this: You've taken up healthcare quite a few times and that's what you want to crop for people. Then I have to ask you: Is it heart disease that will not have access to continuous care, to wait until the cardiac arrest is a fact? Or is it pregnant women who are to be denied maternal care, as long as an emergency situation does not occur then, of course? And are the children who are born or who come here to this country to be allowed to participate in vaccination programmes and go to child health centres? How should this health care be restricted? Is it possible at all to find a more costly and short-term policy than the one you are currently advocating? Which parts of the welfare are you supposed to restrict? Is it heart care, cancer care, maternal care or vaccination program?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-647	Mr President, I would like to I think I'll have to live with Ulla Andersson not appreciating what I'm saying, I think. Doomsday sermon? I tried to say two things. One is: Be careful with the Swedish economy! Let it cope with the next crisis, too. Don't spend all the money here like there's never gonna be any trouble in the future. If we want surpluses at some point, it is now that we are going to start building the surplus. Be a little respectful because we live in a world that is incredibly uncertain! It's not a doomsday sermon. I'm just saying, don't worry, we've seen everything! There will be new problems in the future. I'm trying to tell you about money. The second thing I tried to say was that what people today experience in Swedish everyday life is for real. It is therefore not an illusion to discover a few hundred thousand people who have not yet entered the Swedish labour market. Nor is it a doomsday sermon to point out that if no one gets a job, we have a problem ahead of us that does not solve itself. I don't understand how you can even reason that it's a little overt to mention these concerns. Of course it's not. We're in an industry where we're going to solve problems in society. That is what we are chosen to do. We have financial and other resources at our disposal. If you don't take this seriously, you're in the wrong place in Sweden. If you do not understand that the integration challenges are one of the biggest problems of our time, then I think you have completely misunderstood what has happened in Sweden in recent years. When it comes to welfare benefits, you are either deliberately ignorant or you have been misled. What we have said several times is: Let us discuss seriously whether it is right, reasonable and fair that those who come to Sweden automatically and immediately have access to all welfare benefits, or whether it is more right, reasonable and fair to work their way into them gradually.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-653	Mr President, I would like to Excuse me, Ulf Kristersson, but I didn't actually hear that you had the solution to one problem. All you did was paint up problems, but no solutions were presented. Nor did I hear you answer my questions: What medical care are we going to restrict? Is that the heart disease's medical care? You're gonna have to wait till your heart stops? Is the woman who comes here and is pregnant going to have to wait for an operation until the situation is acute? Aren't you going to let her take part in maternity care? Should children not be vaccinated? The Left Party has previously accused the Moderates of following the Swedish Democrats. Now it is the Swedish Democrats who follow the Moderates. Two months after you have presented your proposal on restrictions on welfare, the Swedish Democrats write in an article that Swedish welfare is for Swedes. Now it's the newer Moderates who are actually leading in the struggle to exclude people, to increase exclusion – well, at least for all those who aren't blond and blue-eyed. But, please, answer my question! Who should be excluded, and what health care should not be provided?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-658	Mr President, I would like to We have not once suggested that a single child or adult should not receive the care he or she needs. You, Ulla Andersson, do not speak in tongues, but you see visions. We have never proposed anything like that at all. We mentioned three examples the other day. Is it right that the guarantee pension goes to people who come here from day one? Is it right and reasonable for the same parental insurance to be applied to one who comes to Sweden from day one? We ask ourselves whether it is right and reasonable or whether we are going to make any changes, and we end with the question: Is it right and reasonable in the long term that the total amount of the grant for a person who comes to Sweden can correspond to a monthly salary of 25 000 – 30 000 SEK? Can this limit the chances of getting a job in Sweden? These are perfectly reasonable questions to ask. You don't even want to ask your questions. I have repeatedly said that these are difficult questions and that I have respect for them. There is much in the Swedish welfare model that I absolutely do not want to change. But here our way of applying it probably clashes with the brutal reality.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-663	Mr President, I would like to I have taken note of the government's economic spring bill. My conclusion is that I'm not impressed. There are two strong points: one is strong in pursuing an irresponsible immigration policy, and one is strong in attacking ordinary employees and entrepreneurs. My party is open to convicting this government at any time, the sooner the better. Unfortunately, however, we do not have such information from those called the Alliance. Mr President, I would like to This government has made Sweden the world leader in marginal tax. In the past, we were in number two, but it was apparently not enough for the present left-wing rule. What happens when we impose penalties on employees and, above all, on high-income earners? So we get more tax money? Or does it lead to high-income people choosing to move from Sweden to another country? Of course, the government's tax increase for high income earners means that they no longer want to remain in Sweden, and therefore tax revenue becomes negative. However, the government's tax increases for employees do not only concern high income earners. They concern policemen, teachers, nurses — ordinary people in ordinary occupations. The Swedish democrats say no to these tax increases on labour for ordinary people. The government also wants to allow the entrepreneurs themselves to assume responsibility for sick pay costs, except for the government's own tax-subsidised fake jobs. This is, of course, remarkable, to say the least. The Swedish Democrats will never support a proposal in which entrepreneurs will have increased costs due to sick leave. Instead, we are in favour of a model in which small businesses basically do not have to pay sick pay. The Swedish democrats also propose that the so-called general wage levy, that is, about one third of the total employers' contributions, be completely abolished for the smaller companies. Why? Because it is with the smaller companies that the new jobs are created. And there is a fundamental and ideological difference between the Swedish Democrats and the government in this regard. We want to give private companies the right tools to create jobs. But the government wants to create the jobs itself. In fact, the only job-creating measure in the Government's budget proposal consists of a multi-billion-dollar contribution to the country's municipalities with the hope that the municipalities will be able to create jobs. I am not saying that there is no need for more jobs in the public sector, absolutely not, but a basic condition for having a public sector at all is, after all, that there is a private sector that finances it. Allowing the public sector to grow and finance this by overestimating the private sector is not sustainable development. This is fundamental reasoning. You don't have to reasonably be an economist to understand them. And everyone, possibly with the exception of the old Communist Party, should also understand these reasonings. In the direction of the key is also the proposal to tax Swedish nuclear power, which is the basis for virtually all of our heavy industry. Mr President, I would like to The fiscal framework has served us well. If I may be in charge, it shall continue to be so. The abolition of the surplus target means, in any case, a short-term profit. You just get more money to spend. In the longer term, however, this means higher public debt, which will sooner or later be repaid. And, of course, the issue of the framework is linked to the greatly increased costs of migration. When it became clear that the government would break the expenditure ceiling, including the supporting part of the framework, it chose a little hasty and funny to record some expenditure on the other side of the year's turn so that it did not become too obvious. In practice, therefore, the expenditure ceiling has been exceeded, but with a little creative accounting it has been possible to avoid the acute danger. In November last year, the government chose to allocate SEK 11 billion extra to the municipalities of the country to meet the sharply increased costs caused by an increase in the number of newly arrived immigrants. Today, a few months later, we want to raise another 10 billion. The Swedish Democrats are in principle behind initiatives to strengthen welfare, but this must of course be done smartly and effectively. One cannot have a grossly irresponsible immigration policy and then, on a quarterly basis, add billions to the municipalities in the hope that the situation will then be resolved. Swedish welfare does not suffer primarily from a lack of money. It suffers from a lack of trained staff. Lack of teachers, midwives or other things we do not solve by providing more money to the municipalities. We solve this by investing in training and improving the working conditions of civil servants. There is nothing long-term in this government. I am concerned that the next budget already needs to go back to Parliament again and ask for even more money to meet the costs arising as a result of current immigration policy. Mr President, I would like to Sweden suffers from an acute lack of political leadership. The present government has clearly shown that it is not ready to shoulder the task it has taken on. In the proposal it has submitted, the Swedish Immigration Service's funding will be increased by SEK 31 billion this year. As a result, this authority is changing the size of the entire Swedish Armed Forces. Expenditure areas 8 and 13, i.e. Migration and Integration, now exceed the government costs of healthcare, health and social care. For our part, we are waiting for the other parties that have launched more or less laudable initiatives to do so in this House too, so that we can possibly together put an end to some of these madnesss. The Swedish Democrats' budget motion will be very much about integration, cohesion and the importance of citizenship. We will not only point to the shortcomings of this and previous governments, but we will show a concrete way forward for the country that we are elected to manage. We will show political leadership. Before this is possible and before we take a step towards sustainable integration, we will need a radically different approach to immigration policy. The idea that Sweden does not have an immigration problem but only an integration problem has been rejected by the vast majority. What Sweden needs is not only a reduction in immigration but a substantial return. We will present several initiatives to make this possible. Only then can we really start talking about integration and cohesion in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to For those who were not born in Sweden or whose parents come from another country but have a good basis of encouragement and a genuine desire to become part of our Swedish society, we will show a clear way to become just that. I am not saying that it will be an easy way, because it will not be. But I say that the path to Swedish citizenship, with the rights and obligations it entails, will be clear. I don't care at all about your background. If your name is hard to pronounce, I don't care either. It's your ambition I care about. But to the person who has a malicious purpose and not when an idea of becoming a part of Sweden and who may even despise the ideas that we in the West hold high, I have no problem at all to say: There is the door! You are very welcome to leave!
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-690	Mr President, I would like to This is what a person who has written a debate article says that Swedish welfare is for Swedes. We live in a country where many people have turned away from war and oppression. When they come here, it is a matter of course for the Left Party to have the best possible conditions to be able to establish themselves, learn the language, get education if they need it and be able to work and contribute to the welfare. We have a lot of work to do. We need more employees in elderly care and health care, and we need to build housing and infrastructure. As we grow more we also reduce the dependency ratio per capita. However, there are parties, such as the Swedish Democrats, who are happy to chase these people out and send them back to the horrors of war, no matter how many they are or what the situation looks like in our world. Suggestions are put forward for how to scare them away and be chased away and how everything should deteriorate for them. No cancer care should be provided, and welfare should be restricted. It is called to press conferences, it is written debate articles and it is given interviews. These are people with lower life value according to Swedish democratic logic. But when it comes to the refugees who are actually undermining our common welfare and costing society big money, it is not called to press conferences, written some debate articles or put forward any proposals. The Swedish Democrats seem to like these refugees. Hear and marvel! I can't believe there could be such a thing! Yes, they are. It's the tax evasion. 46 billion they have taken away from our common welfare. But they do not have any proposals from the Swedish Democrats. Instead, they defend the venture capitalists who take profits out of welfare and escape the tax. The tax is to be reduced for all those who have a lot of capital. Are tax evasions also to be hunted, Oscar Sjöstedt? Should their welfare be shouted, and if so, how? Surely they are the threat to our well-being.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-696	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I think that Swedish welfare is primarily for Swedish citizens. The Swedish state has a more far-reaching responsibility for its own citizens than for the citizens of other states. That's how it works in most of the world. It is not controversial at all, but a quite natural starting point. The single largest threat to Sweden's welfare is the economic policy of the Left Party.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-698	Why? Well, because if you're going to have an all-to-all policy, you have to solve it in one of three possible ways. Either you borrow for it. You can do that for a while, but not forever. Or you raise taxes. But eventually you lose growth, consumption and employment, and then you have kicked your legs away to maintain a welfare state. Or you make it worse for everyone, and everyone gets a little less well-being. I am happy to discuss the issue of tax evasion. The answer to Ulla Andersson's specific question is a resounding yes. I want to hunt them by any means possible. I am not saying that I have all the solutions for how to do that, but if the Left Party or anyone else comes up with sound proposals and initiatives to pursue tax evasion, I am absolutely prepared to support them.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-700	Mr President, I would like to The state has a responsibility for everyone who lives here regardless of gender, background or other conditions. I would say that the single greatest threat to Swedish welfare is tax evasion. You didn't answer my question, Oscar Sjöstedt. I understand you don't want that. Should tax evasion also have limited welfare? If so, how are they to be hunted? A single concrete suggestion should be made if you dislike tax evasion so badly. But I really don't think you do, Oscar Sjöstedt. You are pursuing a policy that, above all, wants to benefit people with high incomes and not tax capital. You are happy to take the lead in protecting venture capitalists and their huge profits from well-being and their evasion from taxes. Answer my question, Oscar Sjöstedt! Should tax evasion also have limited welfare? It is they who pose the great threat to our common welfare, no one else. In that case, it would be a right-wing populist party like the Swedish Democrats.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-705	Mr President, I would like to I maintain that the state has a more far-reaching responsibility for its citizens than for anyone who happens to be in the country, whether it is temporary or not. This applies to the Swedish state and to all other states in the world. Should tax evasions have limited welfare? You can discuss that. I don't know if that's the way to attack them. The problem with tax evasion is that we don't know who they are. Otherwise, they would not have been tax evasion, and then we would have been able to rectify the situation. It's possible. I don't know which way is exactly right. We can discuss it further in the current debate on the very issue that will come in due course. I am still prepared to look at all the initiatives and solutions to tackle tax evasion. But I don't know if that's the right way. That's doubtful, isn't it? We also want high income earners in Sweden. We don't want to tax them out of the country. But it's not the same as us benefiting them because there's an intrinsic value in it. We want high-income earners because they pay a lot of taxes.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-710	Mr President, I would like to The political talks of the last six months have been marked by the war in Syria and by how Europe has failed to take care of all people on the run. If the countries had worked together, we could have found a solution. But now it's not like that. Yet Sweden must continue to stand up for a humane refugee policy. For the Green Party, it is extremely important that Sweden expands its reception so that we are better equipped in the future and so that the 160 000 people who came here last year get a chance to eta eta bla themselves as quickly as possible with jobs, school and housing. If we do this wisely, all new people in Sweden will strengthen our economy and well-being. We need more hands in health care and more adults in school. In many occupations there is a great shortage of labour. Our population is ageing, but now we have many new people of working age. Together we can build the modern, sustainable society. The Government now provides additional support of SEK 10 billion per year to municipalities and county councils. They are the ones who take great responsibility for Sweden's welfare, not least for the new arrivals, and for that more money is needed. This is just one of all measures that strengthen our common well-being and the sustainable construction of society. Fast track for newly arrived entrepreneurship, skills mapping during the asylum period and language initiatives in SFI and Swedish as a second language are some other government measures. In order to increase the reception capacity and reduce the processing times for asylum applications, the Migration Agency receives a supplement of SEK 30 billion. Sweden faces major challenges, but we also have the conditions to cope with them. Sweden's economy is stronger than it has been for a very long time. The economic gap between women and men is narrowing. Unemployment is falling. 80,000 more people have a job now than this government took over. It is youth unemployment that is declining fastest. And Sweden has the lowest long-term unemployment rate in the EU. Economic growth measured by GDP is high. So these are good times for anyone who comes here looking for their first job. Mr President, I would like to The Green Party entered the Riksdag in 1988. Among our very first movements was one that brought up just bnp and that measure does not say everything about how it is doing with economy and prosperity. It said that the current economic governance measure of GDP must be complemented by other measures reflecting the use of resources by people and nature. ..................................................... With the Green Party in the government, this policy develops. We are developing new measures that give a more comprehensive picture, where you have with the economy but also how it is with the environment and climate and people's social conditions. In a year's time, next time we have a spring budget debate, there will be a proposal for such measures to be used in the future. I look forward to that very much. Mr President, I would like to For a party with visions it may take a while before the rest of society catch up. I would like to give another example from an early Green Party exercise on economic policy. It's from January 1989. The Green Party wants to see a tax system that is working seriously to reduce waste of resources and to promote savings. – – – The tax system will increase the possibilities for choosing goods and services that wear less on nature and people. ..................................................... That was 27 years ago. Today, the Green Party is making a reality of what was then a vision. Taxes make it easier and cheaper to choose the best alternative for the climate and the environment. Let me give you some examples from this year's spring budget. If you want to get your broken dishwasher or washing machine fixed instead of buying a new one, you should be able to make RUT deduction for it. This means that fewer appliances are thrown away unnecessarily. This reduces resource consumption. Another example is that it will be cheaper to make clothes, shoes and bicycles through reduced VAT. A third example is that those who have solar cells on the roof should be able to sell electricity that you do not spend yourself without making it difficult to account for VAT. Setting up solar cells is already very popular, partly because the government has increased investment support. Now it is easier than ever to make electricity from the sun on the house roof. There are even more examples. A total of six tax proposals are presented that make it easier to be an environmental friend. In this way, we are moving towards sustainable society, where political decisions contribute to a more circular economy, where energy comes from renewable sources and where raw materials are not consumed but reused. The companies share our thinking. Mr President, I would like to The government is creating a modern Sweden, one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Together with the business community and with the help of all new residents, we are now implementing the sustainable construction of society.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-723	Mr President, I would like to It was an almost Randian scenario last week when representatives of both S and MP protested against Findu's closure in Bjuv. So there was a protest against the closure after raising taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by 30 billion. Green business has been made more difficult by inactivity and, once something is done, by increasing regulation. The Green Party may not have much of its rural confusion left. But I want to give Janine Alm Ericson two minutes to draw a picture of what you want to do to strengthen rural development, to strengthen the green industries in Sweden. When we look at what the government is planning, we can see that only today has it been announced that road maintenance will be cut by half a billion. If we look at how priority has been given in the past, we can see that it will go over the individual roads, the smaller county roads, the rural infrastructure. The government still announces for a kilometre tax. It has proved harder to implement than the government thought and has taken much longer than previously thought. But there are still plans to start taxing distances. The farmers' manure is to be taxed. And the food strategy for which the government and government parties hope very much, and where there was an expectation in rural Sweden that something would happen, seems to be an extremely toothless document. If we now want the green economy, such as Findus in Bjuv, to remain and develop, then it must become concrete policy. Where is it, Janine Alm Ericson?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-729	Mr President, I would like to In this budget debate and in the spring amending budget that has now been presented, the focus is on spending on welfare and proper tax cuts to do what is better for the environment. It is about increased environmental taxes and better repairs, which means that we contribute to a circular economy. I think these are things that will be useful also in rural areas. The welfare billions will be distributed across the country and will strengthen the country as well. I am not at all sure that the food strategy that Emil Källström is now sawing will be as bad as he predicts. It is a collaboration in which we will all come up with input. I believe that harder work from everyone – rather than standing here in this House criticising – will help rural development to move forward. Another clear point with regard to rural development is that we are, for example, in favour of a decentralised energy policy. More recent bart creates jobs in rural areas in areas such as wind power, but also methane gas production. In addition, the government has previously invested in broadband throughout the country. These are some of the things that are needed if we are to continue to have business development in rural areas too.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-733	Mr President, I would like to Janine Alm Ericson believes that if you do things in a lot of other areas, it will somehow spill over even in rural policy. It's a belief I don't really share. I believe that if we are to strengthen jobs and entrepreneurship throughout our country, we must pursue a policy that leads to this, which breaks with the clear decentralisation tendencies of the government. Let us just take the example of withdrawing 2 billion of state venture capital from Östersund to Stockholm when Inland innovation is discontinued. I am not content to believe, but I know what creates development. If we wisely reduce taxes and charges and withdraw the regulatory burden that keeps so many entrepreneurs around the country back, that will be a good thing. If we strengthen the infrastructure appropriations with broadband and with more money for rail, and not less, it is something that benefits rural areas. That's what it takes.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-737	Mr President, I would like to It can be seen that we are in agreement in several areas in which we need to strengthen and make further efforts. It's great that the Center Party now has the answers to the questions from the countryside. It was only a pity that they were not presented during their eight years in the government during the alliance period. If we had made the efforts that we knew were needed then we would not have had the situation that we have today. I also find it worrying that the situation is as it is. It's good that we talk rural politics in here a lot. But let us do so in a way that is also constructive and strengthening for an area that we both care very much about.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-739	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, last autumn we saw examples of the policy of panic from the Green Party and the Social Democrats. We faced a great challenge when many people sought protection in Sweden. We were six parties that came together in an agreement with a number of measures that were tough both for my own party, the Liberals, and the Green Party. On the Liberal side, we also supported the idea of identity controls, which are tough from a liberal point of view. It was about those who do not have papers and who are in Germany or Austria being allowed to apply for asylum there and do not go further to Sweden. It was a tough decision. After this agreement, the panic arose when Romson and Löfven took a press conference just a few weeks after we were six parties who were on a press conference and went on to achieve a migration policy and a refugee policy at the EU's minimum level. What concerns me now is that we are going to vote through this in Parliament – not us, but above all the Green Party and some others – and that there are some points that are both too inhumane, in my opinion, and that will have very big problems in terms of finding a job for refugees. My first question to Janine Alm Ericson concerns the effect she believes it will have on people's ability to come to work in Sweden that you may not be reunited with their children. How can the person sitting in a refugee camp somewhere in our country right now and have the children in Jordan, in Turkey or on the run concentrate on getting a job and learning Swedish when you have closed the door for a reunion with the children? My second question concerns why you did not listen to the consultation bodies about the views on jobs and temporary residence permits. I think temporary residence permits may be needed, but not one-year residence permits. You listened to the consultation bodies when it came to opening up so that they could enter benefit systems, but you did not listen when it came to jobs. My third question – and I am a little surprised here – is that in the budget that is now on Parliament's table there are no measures to shorten waiting times for asylum. We can disagree on many other things when it comes to integration, but one thing we should agree on, Janine Alm Ericson : Waiting, waiting and waiting for information about staying in Sweden tearing people apart.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-746	Mr President, I would like to For ten years, the Green Party has had an extremely clear strategy on migration issues. At every opportunity when it has been politically possible, we have negotiated on strengthening the rights of vulnerable groups. We have also achieved a great deal of policy. Sometimes improvements have been possible, and sometimes the only thing you can do is slow down or block a severe deterioration. The government's policy now is to make major investments in better establishment, to get a good reception of those who will and to give more to municipalities and county councils. They are the ones who take the greatest responsibility. The temporary law is far more far-reaching than we have wanted. We have said that many times, and we stand by it. But when the two main opposition parties demand an even more restrictive policy, that is as far as one can go. However, I think the improvements that came after the consultation round are good. We shall now be able to provide the opportunity for children with very difficult health problems to obtain permanent residence permits. There is a small but still increased possibility of reunification. It is now also possible for unaccompanied minors to complete high school, get a job and get a permanent residence permit.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-750	Mr President, I would like to Improvements and improvements – sure, there is some kind of small emergency exit for children to be able to reunite with their parents. But it is at the expense of quota refugees. Instead, you're going to reduce what we agreed on. We said we'd take 5,000 people directly from the camps so they wouldn't be forced on board the boats. Now you are halving that figure and betraying a fairly important part of the migration agreement that we agreed on. This is a strange argument we hear from the Green Party. You're in the Deputy Prime Minister's office and six government positions. You are in a government, and you say: we did not come any further, because those who are in opposition wanted something else. When are you going to take responsibility for your government position? It is you who are responsible for a situation where children will not be reunited with their parents. It is you who have sat at the government meetings and made these decisions. My question, Mr President, is therefore: is there a limit to what a government post is worth? Gustav Fridolin said the business cards weren't the most important thing.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-753	Mr President, I would like to It's weird. Sometimes when it serves the purpose of the opposition, you think it is the government that should take its responsibility, as it does. But on other occasions you tend to stress the importance of the Riksdag in getting the decisions to go through. It's a two-part picture we see here. In this case, we know that it is what Parliament says that will be crucial. When it comes to the issue of quota refugees, which Erik Ullenhag raised, they do not compete with each other. It is still quota refugees that are involved in looking also at family reunification.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-755	Mr President, I would like to I have at some point previously asked Janine Alm Ericson what has happened to the Green Party. New measurements are good, and repair services are good. But what else happened? In the past it has been possible to appreciate the Environmental Party for active work for diversity in welfare. Former representatives of the Green Party are now saying that it is the party that is leading the hot pursuit of free schools. The Green Party has previously been responsible for a green tax shift. Now it is red-green black change that applies, where the tax on jobs is always increased no matter how much emissions are taxed. I have pointed out how the Green Party has taken 250 million from relief organisations and instead prioritised free admission to state museums. To this not so flattering list we can add it as betrayed as the grand promise to fix the school in 100 days. We can add how the aid, which would have been protected from any bill, now seems to have gone to invite ambassadors on luxury trips to Sweden in exchange for votes in a very unworthy Security Council campaign. Contrary to the promise to never contribute to making it harder to come to Sweden, it is now the Green Party that stands between refugees from war Syria and their young children. Perhaps the clearest environmental-partisan contribution to Swedish policy right now is to solve the housing crisis by replacing ROT with distortive building subsidies that even those who are to receive the subsidy do not believe in. I have asked the question before, and I ask it again: What has happened to the Green Party in government?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-760	Mr President, I would like to It was a very open question and quite a few areas, so I don't really know where to start. What has happened to this particular draft budget is that we are showing that we are making a real effort on welfare. It is an area that has been lagging behind for many years and which is now receiving a much-needed reinforcement. We need more hands in health care, and we need more adults in school. We've been clear about that. In addition, we are putting forward several tax proposals that make it possible to live more environmentally friendly. We are going to get the climate and environmental challenge to go in the right direction for once instead of wrong. It was a policy we saw too little of under the alliance government. As far as the non-profit sector is concerned, we did not withdraw money from civil society to invest in free admission to state museums, but all the money we took in that reform is used to invest back in the non-profit sector. Civil society has taken enormous responsibility since last autumn in connection with the refugee crisis. We would like to see this continued, and that is why it is fun and good that we are actually making investments in that area. As far as aid is concerned, I also believe that Jakob Forssmed thinks it is good that we have international cooperation on international issues. For example, in climate action, where we give priority to the most vulnerable countries, we must be able to cooperate and exchange each other regardless of whether we have a Security Council candidate or not.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-766	Mr President, I would like to I mention a little too many topics, says Janine Alm Ericson. There's something in it. Let's stop at one of the topics. Construction subsidies are basically the only construction reform that the government is pursuing beyond what you inherited from Stefan Attefall. Even the construction industries that would benefit from the subsidies do not believe in them. The CEO of the property owners strongly advises against introducing this. Why do you now want to drive up land and construction prices, which was the consequence last time? This was tested and the housing shortage was not remedied. In addition: O m this is so good, why are construction companies now sitting around in Sweden sweating in uncertainty? Because the regulation referred to last summer has not yet been decided because it was met with such massive criticism that it had to be reworked. It can happen to those who made calculations on the first version. Is this a good way to take responsibility for the housing crisis that we are now seeing, Janine Alm Ericson?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-771	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that there are many things we are doing that are to take responsibility for the housing situation that we are facing today. Among other things, we are in talks with the whole opposition so that we can solve these things together. The government with the Green Party sees certain things that we need to fix while the alliance parties in front of other parts. I may not think it is a good way to anticipate the housing policy talks in this House, but we have also, in addition to housing subsidies, invested in increased housing construction. The investments are producing results. The Boverket has calculated that those who existed during the last round would not have come about otherwise. The alliance's findings on housing also leave much to be desired, and I hope that we can find ways forward together on this issue too.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-774	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a great need for reform. Central areas of society must be fundamentally reformed. Both our labour market and our housing market are adapted to another time, another Sweden. At the same time, we see that we need to further improve the business environment in order for small and growing companies, Sweden's job creators, to have the best conditions to develop. This will require a high pace of reform in the coming years. This will require many major and politically tough reforms. We must not be afraid of that challenge. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday representatives from Spotify and Klarna, two of the brightest representatives of the Swedish IT envy, our new Swedish business community and 2000 alets very fast growing company protested that Sweden is falling behind in development. This protest carried an echo from another, worse time. In the 1970s and 1980s, Swedish entrepreneurs moved abroad to escape the then-led socialist policy. Perhaps the best known examples are the Kamprad and Rausing families with the companies Ikea and Tetra Pak respectively. At that time, high taxes and threats to employee funds led many entrepreneurs, job creators, to leave our country. What today's Swedish entrepreneurs require is characterised by reasonableness. A housing market that works. A staff option system that exists in the United States and the United Kingdom, for example. They also want the Swedish school to be better at using and teaching the opportunities that the new technology gives us. This is about companies that politicians of all colors have competed to protect, prioritise and pay attention. Regrettably, these efforts have largely stopped at fine words. The workshop has failed. The power of action shines with its absence. If this continues, the unfortunate day may come when small and large Swedish companies are again forced abroad because of political inactivity or a direct anti-business policy. Several will then ask: Why did you do nothing? Why did the parliament and government not act when the warning signs in the sky came? Mr President, I would like to Then let this and several other parliamentary protocols show that there are clear alternatives to the government's passivity and tax promotion policy. A Sweden that is still is a Sweden that is falling back. Every day that goes by without us making the necessary reforms is a day when we lose competitiveness and confidence in the future. I do not want it to be necessary, as in the 1990s, to have a deep economic crisis before the Swedish policy is able to pull itself together in order to carry out radical reforms. It is now, in the coming years, that we lay the foundation for further decades of a Sweden at the international peak in terms of economic development, creativity and innovation and a generous welfare. To do this requires a few things. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned, our labour market is adapted for another time. Now we hear that the OECD in Paris, the World Bank in Washington, the European Commission in Brussels and our own fiscal council are all saying the same thing. Sweden needs to open up more and new ways into the labour market for those who are not entering the labour market today. It is about a more modern, more mobile labour market based on a fundamental principle: Real security in the labour market is about having a business environment where Swedish companies can be successful and employ. In a truly secure labour market, one should also feel secure in the change, which means changing both employers and jobs. In the same way, our housing market is a remnant from yesterday. Part of, not least, rental regulation is largely a remnant of the regulatory economy of the Second World War. We now need substantial reforms for increased construction, increased mobility and better use of our housing stock. We are in cross-block negotiations. I hope that we will come up with substantial reforms, but it remains to be seen what the government parties are actually prepared to contribute to. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish job creation potential is found in small and growing companies. The Swedish business environment was steadily improving during the time of the Alliance in power. This trend broke very clearly after the 2014 elections. Magdalena Andersson started her finance minister's time by increasing the tax on jobs and companies with more than any other finance minister in a single budget since, I think, Olof Palme's days – there are statistics on this but it only extends back to 1996. This is deeply unfortunate. Instead, the Center Party wants to make it easier and cheaper to start and run a business. These are robust and concrete reforms, no matter where you are on your business trip. For new arrivals or upper secondary school students who want to take their first step as entrepreneurs, we propose a start-up company, a greatly simplified form of enterprise where the whole business should be able to take place in one and the same application. For those who want to test the wings and hire, we completely remove the employer's fee for two years. That's what we're doing so that more people can take the chance. For those who will expand significantly and attract key skills and become the next Klarna or Spotify, we do exactly what Klarna and Spotify are calling for and create a proper opportunity to make use of employee options. Let's take the warning signs seriously. Let us do what is necessary for new decades of Swedish success. Mr President, I would like to Despite the fact that the Swedish economy bears many of the characteristics of the boom, there are great clouds of concern in our country. We have a prime minister who complains in the international media about the concerns of Swedes, but I think it is wrong just to take away what thousands of people feel. This is something to take seriously. The concerns expressed by the Swedish people are clearly justified on certain points. Firstly, it is clear that job growth is insufficient. As I mentioned in a previous shift in line, there is an increase in balanced unemployment and employment is turning back. Secondly, we see some of the expenditure of the state budget running out. Expenditure areas such as health insurance and integration must be made more efficient. Thirdly, we see an increase in Swedish polarisation and division. In a few years' time, the unemployment rate that the Employment Service calls vulnerable people will be approaching 80 per cent. It draws the picture of an almost total division where it is origin and education that alone determines whether one succeeds in the labour market or not. In the coming years, actual bnp will exceed potential bnp. In the same year, government deficits will worsen, in a situation where fiscal policy should rather be tightened wisely. At the same time as fiscal policy is on fire, monetary policy is historically expansionary. The overall Swedish economic policy is likely to be too expansionary, while at the same time under-emerging in a number of areas, not least in terms of job growth. It's a dangerous paradox. The government does not address these challenges. Instead, it makes worse, for example, when making decisions that involve higher sick leave rates and impair job opportunities rather than benefits during the integration process. In terms of both societal challenges and fiscal policy, the government's spring bill leaves much to be desired. This is unfortunate for Sweden. Our country deserves better. The budget movement that the Center Party will be presenting shortly will map out another, much better way for Sweden.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-799	Mr President, I would like to The government has presented a series of proposals to reduce unemployment. We are now also seeing how it is sinking and that the policy is working, which is very positive. Sweden has the highest employment rate in the EU. The government is now also presenting further efforts to improve the establishment of new arrivals. In order to finance the efforts undertaken, the government has, among other things, begun to phase out the system of subsidised social security contributions for young people, which the previous government introduced. The reform of reduced social security contributions was considered a very inefficient policy to create new jobs. While the government was making the change, I noticed that several bourgeois parties are also releasing this reform to different degrees in order to be able to prioritise other things. But the Center Party remains convulsive at the previous level. At the same time, the Center Party proposed to cut around 10 billion in 2016 from the education and university research and labour market and working life spending areas, another of the areas addressed by Spotify founders in their letter. This, of course, has consequences for the labour market and the possibility of making other reforms. It is particularly unfortunate when it is done in order to maintain a reform that has been condemned as expensive and ineffective. I therefore wonder whether Emil Källström will continue to give priority to restoring the previous government's level of employers' contributions for young people or whether there are other more effective proposals for more jobs with investments in schools and the labour market that have a higher priority in the Center Party.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-804	Mr President, I would like to The fact that unemployment is falling after nine straight alliance budgets is no big deal. What concerns me now is that we are moving into a boom and that the government's own forecasts say that, after this boom, in 2020, the situation on the labour market will be worse than it is now when we enter it. I am concerned that the government is saying that employment and labour force participation will be lower and unemployment will be higher. We will not have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, as the government has said. It was a little unclear in a previous change of line whether this is still the government's policy, but whatever it is, it will not become a reality. Janine Alm Ericson makes the mistake that many on the left make. Just because appropriations are not increased as much as in the policy option that increases taxes on everything does not mean cutting them down. The Center Party has not contributed to a single such budget. All nine alliance budgets increased funding for education – everything from pre-school to higher education – and this will of course continue. But it is clear that one of my concerns is how to budget against a political option that increases taxes on everything all the time and thus has a lot of money to move around with. Janine Alm Ericson shouldn't worry. The Center Party will, of course, present tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship where we are restoring after the tax increases that the government has implemented or at least taking steps towards doing so. I will come back with some information this spring. Others will have to wait for the fall, Janine Alm Ericson, but those waiting for something good rarely wait too long.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-809	Mr President, I would like to We will see what comes out of the Center Party's draft budget when it is presented. The fact that it will mean tax cuts is perhaps no surprise, but will there be ambitions for strengthening welfare? Nevertheless, I would like to ask about the support for the 10 billion for welfare. It is the largest permanent increase in the general state contribution since it was introduced in the 1990s. In the previous debate here in the House, Emil Källström used the term to put the welfare to rest. There's nothing he can say in this case. But it would be interesting to know what the Center Party is thinking about the issue, especially now in a situation where several municipalities and county councils have challenges precisely because they have grown so quickly. My picture is that there are many in the Center Party who would be happy if such a venture were to take place. What about Källström's policy in this area? Are there still substantial tax cuts, or is it the development of quality in health care, education and care?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-813	Mr President, I would like to If I'm going to challenge myself and say something positive about government policy, I think it's good that the municipal billions become general contributions. This means pushing power down where it should be, at local and regional level, where adjustments can be made. It is also a crime with the budget that we discussed just six months ago, where the Social Democrats and the Green Party broke a new Swedish record in special-destined state grants. It fattens inefficiency, it's bad politics and it's good that you let it go. It was a good addition from Janine Alm E ricson when it comes to the 10 billion being the biggest increase in state subsidies. This is not the biggest increase in the resources of the municipalities and county councils, for it came when the Alliance's employment policy worked. Because more people went to work and more people made more money, municipalities and county councils had over 150 billion more in annual resources than when we took power. That's how work politics works. That is what is at the heart of welfare funding, and that is why we need to get back to a job policy that works.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-815	Mr President, I would like to I must first congratulate you, Emil Källström. You are actually talking about what you want, unlike the great bourgeois party, and you had a meaning in the introduction that reforms are needed. I agree with that. I am thinking of the EUR 10 billion that come to prosperity, investment in housing, increased maintenance of railways, investment throughout the country, safe jobs, the right to full-time employment and the wages that can be lived on. I don't know if that's what you had in your mind, Emil Källström. It seems that you are more concerned with neoliberal thoughts in your current policy. There, wages are to be reduced, and above all, it seems that the wages of LO workers and workers' women are the major problem. You see a lot of simple work ahead of you, I understand. I don't know if it's picking food bags at Ica or if the piccolon is coming back in Sweden. It feels like we're heading backwards into the future. While you are pushing for lower wages and because it is you, that is, the state, who should put the wages you are pushing on for higher rents. It will hit a lot of people very hard. Here in the City of Stockholm, it is expected that a rent for a two on average will be increased by approximately SEK 5 000 per month and in Stockholm County by about 40 per cent. This will lead to a large number of tenants being forced to move. The Tenants' Association expects that four out of ten would have to move if free renting were to be introduced on the market. It's very troubling. This means that 1 million people would have to move out of their homes because they can't handle the rent. One thought I then get is: Is the Center now the party of the moving carousels?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-820	Mr President, I would like to I have probably not heard such a comprehensive rapsody of conscious misunderstandings in this House since the last time we had a change of line, me and Ulla Andersson. You don't really know where to start somewhere. One picture that I think many who follow the debate get is that we are very far apart in almost every political area, me and Ulla Andersson as representatives of the Center Party and the Left Party. If you get that picture, it's something marked by the characteristics of truth. It is true that Sweden needs major reforms. It is true that the Center Party is pushing for the fundamental transformation of central areas of society. It is not true that a lot of people, as Ulla Andersson says, will receive lower wages. We draw a picture where more people go from allowance to salary, more will earn more. The business is to go on support of 6 000 SEK to get their first salary. Very few changes imply an increase in revenue of over 100%. But this very change from contribution to salary means it. That's why I want more people to have the chance to make that trip. That is why I want to do what both international and Swedish experts say when they point out what we need to do to modernise the labour market. It is not true that we should shock up the rents of those who are currently on rental contracts. We have been very clear that we want to make a wise and step-by-step change that involves strong possession protection and that no one is put on the street. That is why we focus on new production when we talk about freer and more market-based leasing. It's a great way to phase in changes so that people don't experience very rapid changes. Ulla Andersson sees about what we say but understands it completely wrong. It is good that I have the opportunity to correct.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-826	Mr President, I would like to At least I understand so much that you want lower wages. Above all, it is in business but also in health care, if I have understood it correctly. At least that is what your Vice-President has said in debates with me. If we look at the store, the actual starting salary today is SEK 13 800. Thus, according to the Center Party, it is far too high and needs to be reduced. This means that we will have very many poor workers in this country. If you reduce the salaries of one group, in this case of those who come here, as you now wish, it will of course affect everyone else in these activities. But now it was about the rents. You have also said that n i want market-based rents. There will, of course, be consequences. The rents will increase, and so is the intention. It will have an impact on the economy of a great many people. As a result, they will be forced to move regardless of possession protection. If you can't afford the rent, you can't afford the rent. The Tenants' Association has calculated that 1 million people will be affected. That means you're the movers' party.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-829	Mr President, I would like to The core wording of Ulla Andersson's last line was: if I understood it correctly. She hasn't. It is true that we must fundamentally reform central areas of society in Sweden. It is not true that a lot of people should receive lower wages. On the other hand, it is true that a lot of people should have the opportunity to enter the labour market and go from low contributions to a salary they can live on. It is not true that a lot of people will get shocked rents and get rid of their apartments. However, it is true that we will gradually reform the Swedish housing market so that it works better. It's clear what we have to do. The Left Party has a completely different agenda for Sweden. You don't want to do anything in many ways, and if you want to do something, it means in every situation a lot of public billions that should always be paid by someone else. It's as far from Center Party politics as you can get. It's very clear after a change of line like this. I thank Ulla Andersson for the opportunity to clarify this.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-834	Mr President, I would like to Most of us have experienced that very special person in welfare. It is the preschool teacher or child caretaker who made a very special contribution when we brought our first child to preschool. Or perhaps it was the assistant nurse who took care of Grandma when she was seriously ill in the hospital and made her life so much better. Without their efforts, our life would be so much more difficult. For us women, it is also crucial that welfare works, is safe, of good quality and is well-developed. We know how important this work is for it to be so. We also know that much more resources are needed in order for it to be carried out in the good way that it is actually needed. When we are at work, we want to feel confident that our loved ones will be happy. After all, they are the most valuable thing we have. We will hand them over to the welfare workers and their responsibilities. Therefore, they should also have the best conditions they can ever have to take that responsibility. Unfortunately, this is not always the case today. The resources are scarce, and no matter how hard they work, they are not enough. We can't have that. A modern society requires an expanded welfare, a community building where women's living conditions are strengthened and those at the heart of welfare services such as children, the elderly and the sick are better off. It is a more humane Sweden, and it is a Sweden that we all benefit from. That is what we have brought with us in the Left Party before the negotiations when we demanded 10 billion in permanent contributions to welfare, to the local government sector. We demanded it, and we got it. Now municipalities and county councils can have good planning conditions to strengthen in those activities where they feel it is most needed. It's gonna look a little different. In some k ommuner, children's groups in preschool are too large. In others, it may be that older people need to improve the quality of care for the elderly, that the assessment of assistance is more generous and that the staff have more time for good care. You can remove shared tours or go for school. Childbirth care can get more resources, or queues for prostate cancer care can be shortened. Wages and the working environment can also be improved. The 10 billion will make a difference year after year. What we are doing now is showing that it is possible to receive a great many people while at the same time strengthening welfare. Time and again we hear allegations that both things cannot be done at the same time. But in our modern history, exactly the two things that have made Sweden known internationally – a generous refugee policy and an ambitious welfare policy. A society that has for a long time allowed the common to decay naturally gets worse at it. If teachers are already under pressure to the border and housing has stopped, then it is more difficult to accept many new people. That is why it is important that we now leave the fragile construction of the right-wing society, because it does not stick together. When we invest in welfare, we make Sweden stronger and more stable. When welfare is strengthened, people are created safe, and the economy is improving for both the individual and the national economy as a whole. In addition to the addition of the 10 billion, a dialogue between the government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council is now being initiated for a joint work on the shortage professions in welfare. Many important professions currently lack staff with the right skills. This is, of course, a problem that needs to be resolved. Now that a great many people have come here from war and oppression, we must also take advantage of their skills and willingness to work. For this reason, the Swedish Public Employment Service will receive an additional contribution to start a skills survey with a special focus on the lack of jobs in the welfare sector while waiting for the refugee camp. The opportunities for learning the new language are also strengthened, as folk high schools are able to take part in the money allocated to this and to start a new and good job. Now the right wing pushes and complains that the welfare will receive 10 billion. Ulf Kristersson becomes almost a bit tragic when he is on TV worrying about the Swedish economy and the state finances because the welfare will receive 10 billion in permanent contributions. In his world, it is a threat when welfare gains more money, but not when taxes are reduced unfunded. We have heard how the bourgeoisie abounds over how public finances are undermined. They did not sound that way when they themselves lowered the tax unfunded time and again. We all remember how they left behind large public deficits all three times they had been in government power. But when the wealth gets resources, the bourgeoisie rips its hair in despair. Imagine that welfare will be strengthened and not impoverished! Wow, how's this gonna go? Instead, they want to continue to reduce the tax. What is children's education against a tax reduction? What's Grandma's concern for a tax cut? What is a functioning maternity care worth against a tax cut? The answer will obviously be that tax cuts always come first. The right's creativity in shaping new proposals for tax cuts is great, as is the creativity of the Moderates in chasing people who are fleeing war and oppression. On the other hand, when it comes to pursuing tax evasion, they are completely empty of proposals. When the richest groups in society through ingenious arrangements slip away from the treasure, the right makes no press conferences or quick moves. From their side comes only silence. Perhaps one reason for that is that it is their friends who are involved. Recently it emerged that former moderate MPs are among those who had assets abroad and did not want to pay taxes. These are resources that would have gone to welfare. They would have gone to the sick in the line in the emergency room or to the elderly who are in a retirement home with understaffed staff. When former bourgeois State Secretary, who is now the head of the Tax Agency, calls and warns his old friends that the media know that they have escaped from the tax, it has actually stepped across all borders. A well-being one can trust requires that all who can contribute. This also applies to the richest, and indeed to Moderates. There is a lot of talk about the Swedish model these days. It's welcome. The right is trying in every possible way to make up over the obvious fact that they always want to walk away from it. One day, tax cuts are hitting welfare. On the second day, it is the state that will go in and lower wages. There are many of us who are involved in defending the Swedish model. But it is not enough just to defend it. We must constantly develop and improve it with new reforms and new initiatives. Otherwise, it will stagnate and be attacked. Therefore, it is always so important to develop the Swedish model. In this, the 10 billion to the municipalities, county councils and welfare are well-suited. When the government negotiates with the Left Party, welfare and equality are at the centre. Then you get 10 billion to the welfare and a bank tax. When you read the distribution policy annex in the spring bill, you can actually be a little happy. Policies have an impact on income inequality. The economic standard is improved for those with the lowest income, while the tax increases have been directed to those with the highest income. That's probably why the bourgeoisie is now so upset. In addition, it is mainly women who are better off. Reducing income inequality is central to the defence of welfare. With excessive income differentials, trust and solidarity between different social groups are reduced. Those up there don't feel as much about paying taxes to help groups that have the toughest financial situation. We know that health is also affected and getting worse. Above all, children's health is affected. Even school scores are getting worse. When the bourgeoisie ruled, income differentials increased. The 10 per cent with the highest income received about ten times more in percentage increase than the 10 per cent with the lowest income. Relative poverty grew by over 40 per cent. Instead, we now have an objective of highlighting the groups with the lowest incomes and guaranteeing them an economic growth that is higher than that of other groups in society. From the Left Party we want to reduce income inequality, for it provides a stronger community building that embraces more. We want to expand welfare. But while we want to develop Swedish welfare, the right is aiming to attack it time and again. 10 billion to the welfare of permanent supplements will make a difference for a great many people, not least for us women. Sorry, Ulf, Erik, Jakob and Emil – for me it is much more important than that you should be satisfied.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-857	Mr President, I would like to I have had a low-intensity project during a number of budget debates to get Ulla Andersson to admit that it would be positive with more female entrepreneurs, more female CEOs and more female Chairman of the Board. I will end this line too by asking her about this very thing. But the policy pursued leads in quite the opposite direction when the Left Party has influence. Surgical precision weakens the industries where female entrepreneurship, female CEOs, female Chairman of the Board and female ownership are emerging. That's where the Left Party will ban, complicate and destroy. We also see what has happened to other measures taken by the Alliance Government, such as the Ambassador's Network for Women Entrepreneurs and the efforts of organisations that support this in various ways. All of this has also disappeared. If we agree that we want more women entrepreneurs, it is a strange policy that is being pursued. The question is whether we agree on a fundamental level. Do I agree with Ulla Andersson that it would be good to have more women entrepreneurs in Sweden? And if so, what does the Left Party do to make it so?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-861	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party would like to see more women on company boards. We're in favour of quotas. I don't know if the Center Party is. I would like to hear that. We are also very much in favour of women getting better opportunities in their lives. That is why we are fighting so hard to ensure that welfare is provided with resources, so that it can have the quality needed, but also to ensure that we have childcare that is open when parents – women and men – go to work on uncomfortable working hours, such as evenings, nights and weekends, and that we have an elderly care that works, so that women, who have the main responsibility today, can go to work and do a good job. It affects us all. Yes, of course we want more female entrepreneurs. That is why we are working feverishly to ensure that employment is increasing in this country. We invest in housing construction and infrastructure and provide more resources to, among other things, welfare and research. There are, of course, more such areas. When I was a municipal councillor at home in Gävle, I worked very much with a network for female entrepreneurs and made sure that they got more resources. As it was there, male entrepreneurs received much more of the municipal funds than the women received. So we are in different ways. However – and that's what I think Emil Källström is after – we don't think RUT is a good reform. It is politically incorrect and economically inefficient. We would rather spend that money on cleaning hospitals and schools, which women who run cleaning businesses can also do.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-866	Mr President, I would like to If you are against the RUT deduction, it must be easily painful now to give your support to a budget bill in which we in the Center Party and the Alliance have pushed the government parties ahead of us and forced through historical extensions of the RUT deduction. Of course, more is needed. You should raise the roof back, and there are more fights to take on the RUT area. However, I note that the Left Party is giving its blessing to the reforms of the Center Party, which we achieved in the migration negotiations. I'm glad. What I am not pleased about is the lack of policies for female entrepreneurship, the lack of investment in information and support. We still have a gender equality problem when it comes to entrepreneurship. It is unfortunate that quotas are seen as a way forward. Quotation does not mean more female entrepreneurs and no more female CEOs. It's a mistrack. What is needed is the right conditions for female entrepreneurship. Then there'll be more of those.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-868	Mr President, I would like to Quotas concerned quotas to company boards. I notice that Emil Källström does not think it is reasonable for women to gain more power at the expense of men giving up some power. That was a clear message. When you cooperate on the right, you get an uneven distribution policy and an inefficient economic policy. The largest RUT company receives approximately 100 million a year in grants. You pick out about 22 million in profit per year. The employees in the company have an average salary before tax of approximately SEK 12 000. It would probably be much better if these billions were spent on cleaning hospitals and schools. This would benefit all children and sick people so as to prevent injuries in health care. It will be a much more effective economic policy, and it can also be consulted by cleaning companies through the procurement procedures that are being carried out. It would create jobs, the money would benefit more and women entrepreneurs would obviously be strengthened by it.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-870	Mr President, I would like to I'll say something that might shock Ulla Andersson. We need more tax money for the school. We could use more tax money for the elderly. We need more tax money for vulnerable children. But we'll get more tax money if we have a little more taxpayers. That is where the difference lies in Swedish politics. When we say it's pretty stupid to raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, it's because there may be even fewer people who work and pay taxes. Then there will be less resources for welfare. I intend to focus on the issue of sick leave because there I am deeply concerned about where Sweden is going, Ulla Andersson. Some of us remember what it was like last time when you had influence over politics and you, Göran Persson and some others would reduce unemployment. Then sick leave increased. Then the problem of sick leave would be solved, and early retirement would increase. It is clear that your statistics got a little better, but people came further and further from having their own job to go to, a salary to live on and a tax to pay that could contribute precisely to elderly care and school. I know Ulla Andersson does not like to listen to entrepreneurs, but in this case you have a company that Ulla Andersson might like. One of the proposals that the government is now making is that employers should take greater responsibility for the cost of sickness pay. It may sound good, but the paper reads that Carola Lemne, CEO of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, together with Håkan Sörman, CEO of the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, and Eva Liedström Adler, Director General of the Swedish Employers' Agency who is in charge of the state employees, says this: Don't do this! Then you'll pass the costs on to the employers. There is a risk of fewer jobs and what is really serious is that we can get back to a situation where an entrepreneur who chooses between hiring a person at risk of being on sick leave and one who is healthy will opt out of the person at risk of being on sick leave. This increases exclusion. Are you prepared, Ulla Andersson, to listen this time to Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the state employers so that there will be no more people stuck in exclusion?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-876	Mr President, I would like to I think the question is quite interesting. Erik Ullenhag claims that if you pay more taxes, fewer people work and pay taxes. It shows a rather flagrant difference in view of man. I assume that people want to do the right thing, work and contribute to society. The vast majority of people in this country have probably seen that the Swedish model means a relatively large tax levy that finances our common welfare and that has built this country strong. I realise that it may be difficult for Erik Ullenhag to understand, because during his time in the government, for example, the precipice stock was introduced. This was done on the grounds that it would improve the income of women and make them healthier. It goes without saying how falsely it crusted. But I also remember that you thought that people who were lucky enough to be healthy and have a job would pay lower taxes than those who had the bad luck of being sick. It also says a great deal about your view of man. If those who were sick were to find out that they would receive lower taxes, they would only make sure that they were healthy. I don't think that's how it works. I believe that people who are ill want to be able to feel financial security, they want to know that they have a right to rehabilitation and that they want to know the health care system should have the resources to meet their needs. I think that is absolutely crucial to how this is to be improved. The 10 billion to welfare could probably improve working conditions in the local government sector so that sick leave can be reduced. It's really needed. But I don't believe in Erik Ullenhag's previous models. We have not yet taken a position on the Government's proposal. We feel that parts of it are missing so that it can be good for people who are actually sick today.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-881	Mr President, I would like to I have listened carefully to Ulla Andersson, and she said that it does not matter how high the tax is. People will still go to work. There are some economists... even on the left... who think they're working a little less with 100% tax. Surely there must be some limit, even for Ulla Andersson. Ulla Andersson loves to say that it is high wage earners who will pay. This is reflected in the budget that is on our table. I would like to mention some of those who now have to pay government income tax with Ulla Andersson's policy and the government's proposal: miners, dock workers, midwives and head of preschools. Is it high-income, Ulla Andersson? The idea of the state income tax was that it would meet those who earn the most. Does Ulla Andersson mean that it is absolutely right that miners, dock workers and managers of a preschool should pay government income tax?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-884	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Erik Ullenhag, I believe that children's nurses, kindergarten managers and miners have children in preschool or an older grandmother who needs care. They may even need more workmates, especially midwives in maternity care. They know that the business is tax-financed. Erik Ullenhag says that I claim that everyone should pay 100% tax. I never said that. However, I think it is reasonable to have good working conditions and a good salary on which to live. Erik Ullenhag advocates a different line. You want to cut people's wages. That seems to be your focus right now. You even want to decide how much your salary should be. Your suggestion would mean that a assistant nurse would receive about $12,800 on a starting salary. The actual rate of service for a nurse is 85 per cent. I do not believe that a country is being built strong with poor workers and a wealth impoverished by resources. We will build a more stable society, not a more fragile one.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-887	Mr President, I would like to The other day we could read in Svenska Dagbladet about how the money that would go to increase staffing in elderly care has basically only been used to increase staffing within the elderly care run by the municipalities themselves. The activities of companies, non-profit organisations and idea-based organisations hardly receive any of the money that has been paid out to the municipalities of the country. In only 66 of the country's 290 municipalities, individual operators have benefited from the aid at all, and only 10% of it. Private care providers account for about 20 percent of elderly care. Although Ulla Andersson does not like freedom of choice and diversity in the way that many older people do, it should be reasonable that the elderly who receive care for the elderly from private care providers also benefit from the staff investment that the government has made. Or is it that the private care providers are already so good that they do not need to take part in the extra contribution? Ulla Andersson does not usually think so, although according to the user surveys they are as good as the municipal elderly care. I remember when we were standing in this Chamber and Ulla Andersson beat her chest over the money for more staff. It was just recently. At the same time, Ulla Andersson took away the expertise effort on the staff, the money for the national dementia plan, the meal lift, the retirement home guarantee and investment support for elderly housing. Now we see the result. One in five older people did not receive much of the left's staffing effort. The only thing they got was higher home care fees. An elderly person with a low pension and large home care needs did not receive the personnel investment but received a fee of SEK 2,532. What does Ulla Andersson say to him or her?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-891	Mr President, I would like to I say that resources should go to the welfare they are intended for, in this case to the care of the elderly and not to large private profit withdrawals. It is fundamental, but that idea does not share Jakob Forssmed. I understand that Jakob Forssmed is pleased with the targeted state grants to strengthen care for the elderly. During your time there was a historical break of trend, namely that the resources for per capita prosperity decreased. Between 1993 and 2006, income per capita increased by 30 per cent. During your time in power, they fell by 7%. That meant 77 billion less for welfare. The 10 billion is enough for the wages of some 5,000 nurses. They're really needed. I think Jakob Forssmed also thinks they are needed. I also think that money is needed to remove shared tours and the right to full-time care in the elderly. We have not set up a regulatory framework in which private companies cannot take part in the money. We have not stood for it in this case. However, I understand that it may be the case that there is a risk that the money will instead go to private profits. In Stockholm, where the Left Party belongs to the majority, the domestic service rate has not been increased. In Stockholm, extra money was allocated to raise the salaries of, for example, nurses in the care of the elderly. The private companies did not seek that money because they do not want to pay higher wages. They do not want higher costs for their staff. It is based on fewer employees with worse conditions, and in that way they can pick out a profit.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-895	Mr President, I would like to During the alliance years, the contribution to the local government sector increased from 58 billion to 90 billion. This was due, among other things, to changes in municipal commitments, which we financed on the basis of the funding principle, but we also provided resources. We ensured that there was a 10% increase in welfare resources in municipalities and county councils in constant prices. With our policy, the average tax rate per inhabitant increased from SEK 147 000 to SEK 186 000, which is an increase of 26 per cent, at constant prices by 14 per cent. This is by far the most important thing in terms of coping with welfare, that is, getting people to work. It is a connection that the Left has never realized and probably will never realize. It still surprises me that Ulla Andersson thinks it's all right to make an investment in care for the elderly, but if you get care from a private care provider, it's all right that you don't get a crown from this venture.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-898	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is in favour of an effective economic policy. This is one of the reasons why we believe that the tax money should go to the very business for which it is intended, that is, to the care of the elderly, to the schooling of children or to the health care of the patient and should not be taken out in large profits, nor by venture capital companies that refuse to pay taxes. We want people to work. We want to push down unemployment. This is why it is so important to increase public investment. It is investments that can go to increased housing construction, infrastructure or to more employees in elderly care, care and school. That's why we've invested in those parts together with the government. The 10 billion will allow many more people to work in the welfare sectors. We have not set any rules that prevent private companies from being able to take part in the earmarked money for more employees in the care of the elderly.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-900	Mr President, I would like to Tomorrow can be much better than this day. We live in a Europe in a Sweden – the West – where it is hugely important to try to build faith in the future. We are in a situation where the country-by-country debate is that yesterday was better and tomorrow is getting worse. You only see threats and dangers. Then you call for simple solutions. The prerequisite for tomorrow to be better is that we have ideas on how to get better. The prerequisite is also that we describe reality correctly. We should not frighten people with what can actually make us richer and society more exciting. There is now a fantastic transformation of the Swedish economy, what is called the collaborative economy with new companies that are emerging. People solve problems themselves, exchange homes with each other or use the taxi company Uber. The answer from the current government is that Uber is unpleasant and should be banned. I can emphasise exactly what the minister in charge was really looking for, namely that you should pay taxes and that it should be easy to do the right thing. That also applies to Uber. But don't attack the new way. Don't be in the same position as previous Social Democratic governments when they said it is a fly you should be careful with. I am concerned about the belief in the future because instead of talking about a better future, the Social Democrats in particular have come to the point that everything was better in the past. They talk about the Swedish model – you see the unique box and many people on May Day – but they miss today's societal challenges. The pendulum quickly changed in Sweden last autumn. It was a huge challenge, and there were problems in the reception as there were 10 000 people per week who applied for asylum in Sweden. From standing up for solidarity, the pendulum turned very quickly, and now the height of wisdom from the government parties is to have the most restrictive refugee policy at European level. I am concerned about the tone in Sweden – if one would now believe that the future can be better – with words like system collapse, threats to welfare and that this will never work. Basically, it is clear that it is better for people to flee to our country than for people to flee our country. Basically, it is a huge opportunity for the population to increase, and it will meet with the right policies. If we are to succeed in the future, there is one element that is more important than anything else, namely school — school knowledge. There is nothing that creates more equal conditions and opportunities for people than a school where everyone gets the chance to succeed. There Sweden has major problems and challenges. For a long time, the results of knowledge have fallen. When the Liberals sat in the government and were responsible for the school, the most common criticism from those who now have responsibility for the school, that is, Gustav Fridolin, was that the alliance government carried out far too many reforms. Perhaps the most important election promise from the Green Party before entering the government was that there should be peace of mind in the school world. Yes, there was peace of mind at the Department of Education. There has been a complete stop to reform. A few things are done, and then you hit the big drum. Yesterday we could read in Svenska Dagbladet that schools would now be expanded because Magdalena Andersson and Gustav Fridolin have promised that to meet the challenge of receiving refugees 100 million SEK will be allocated. To all ordinary people, it sounds like a lot of money. I can tell you there's enough for half a new school. Malmö Municipality needs 26 new schools. A little bit happens, though. Among other things, one may have woken up in an old discussion, i.e. whether it is a good idea with mobile phones in school. Gustav Fridolin has now said that the question should be investigated if it is good that teachers have the opportunity to keep mobile phones, but you need to investigate a little more. Gustav Fridolin said to Ekot that it must be decided when you can have mobile phones with and when they should be used in teaching. I can save some money for Magdalena Andersson and the government by investigating the question quickly: Cell phones should not ring in class time! It is absurd that we find ourselves in a situation where a lot of teachers say that they are afraid to seize mobile phones that interfere with lessons. It is not enough to complain that the government is doing too little. Liberals as a party and as incoming government need to think about what to do in the next step. It is absolutely crucial that we find a way to renationalise the school. We can see a situation where the school results really fall and the teaching profession's status has fallen, and it is linked to Göran Persson's and Magdalena Andersson's municipalization of the Swedish school. If the school works, provides knowledge, there is faith in the future. There is a special challenge right now in all the new arrivals coming to Sweden. Liberals have proposed quite radical reforms to extend schooling requirements for older children. It is better that they stay for a while in school and bring basic knowledge. We say that summer holidays will be halved for that group so that time can be used better. There must be more first teachers, the best paid and the best teachers, in the schools that need them most. I stood in what was previously the City Hall in Karlstad a few months ago, in the middle of when the reception of refugees was greatest. I spoke to a young woman and a young man. They were in their 20s. The young man spoke almost perfectly English and had learned a little Swedish in two weeks in Sweden. He looked at me and asked: "When can I start studying at the university?" My honest answer was, maybe in two years. It is the effect of the waiting times that the government has now built up and uses to scare people away from Sweden. Two years it will take to process an asylum application. Two years it will take this young man to get into the university in Sweden, and it will tear him apart. We know from all the historical experience of the integration challenge in Sweden that waiting and uncertainty tear people apart. From the Liberals' side, we will continue to fight for a migration policy with both the heart and the brain that is about stopping a great deal of what Romson and Löfven proposed last autumn that will make it harder for refugees to get jobs. But at the same time, we will stand up for the rather tough decisions we jointly made last autumn in a sex party agreement. All the focus must be on what people can contribute to in Sweden, how they will learn Swedish, how we will ensure that all the people who want to build a future here get that chance. Then we have to stop the proposals about separating children from their parents, because this is not a good start in Sweden. We need to find ways to ensure that asylum applications are communicated more quickly. There's a lot to do there. Mr President, I would like to I regret that Magdalena Andersson and Social Democracy have now very clearly indicated that they are choosing the Left Party and leaning there in Swedish politics. There was a window last autumn when, among other things, we from the Liberals said this: Let us together review the tax system and get to one that works, where we can reduce taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. We are prepared to raise some taxes, the Finance Minister, on what destroys the environment and on a lot of other things. But now it's decided. Now it is a battle for the Swedish model that applies, and now it is cooperation to the left. It was quite revealing, what happened in this Chamber a little while ago. Ulla Andersson then asked one thing: Who should pay government income tax? Magdalena Andersson and I have previously agreed that government income tax may be needed for those who earn a lot of money. A budget is now being put on Parliament's table, which means that it is the miners, dockers, midwives and managers at the preschools who will be subject to the payment of government income tax. That is the effect of a social democrat who chooses to lean left. You are welcome to go up to Gruvtolvan or some others and tell them that they are high income earners, because that is what they will be now. It is clear that it can give a few more crowns to the welfare, but the effect is also that people may not choose to work extra. Maybe people don't choose to educate themselves. Maybe people don't choose to make an effort. If confidence in the future is to be there, people must want to work and make an effort, and we must have tax systems that encourage and encourage it. Political work is about prioritising. On the Liberal side, we will give priority to a couple of welfare efforts. We will prioritise trying to create an elderly care and a home service where older people can get a guarantee to have their food cooked at home. There's a basic dignity in getting out of that plastic pack. There is something basic for people in mind they get from the scents when the food is cooked at home. This costs a little money, but we are prepared to prioritise it. We are also prepared to give priority and will come back with proposals to strengthen the situation of the most deprived pensioners. It is not that all pensioners in Sweden are having a tough time. But there is a group of people, especially women, who have it tougher than others. Therefore, we will come back with proposals on municipal housing allowances to strengthen their situation. With the right policy we should aim for Sweden to be the world's best country to live in. But then we have to look forward. Then, as the government does, we cannot build a policy around yesterday's battles. We must also equip ourselves for a future that may not be as bright as today. When the boom is no longer there, I will be the first to regret that Magdalena Andersson, Ulla Andersson and this government devoted their time in the economic boom to borrowing money in a way that makes us unable to secure the welfare of the day the interest rates go up and the recession comes. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the floor.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-931	Mr President, I would like to The government does not think that it is the state or Members of Parliament who should set salaries. On the other hand, the Liberals have proposed to reduce entry wages through legislation. This has been debated within the Alliance. Anna Kinberg Batra slammed the door in the face of Jan Björklund and said: This will not happen. Then I have heard Jan Björklund say: Yes, it is. We will discuss and negotiate this if we are to form a government. Now the Alliance has said that elections will be held as a single option. Then, of course, I wonder: will the overall option suggest that we should have lower entry wages in the state or not?
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-934	Mr President, I would like to It remains to be seen, Minister of Finance. We are four parties that will negotiate a joint election manifesto. One difference between us and the government that is now sitting is that we will negotiate it before election day. I can promise you, Magdalena Andersson, that you will be told before election day. The problem you have in the government you're in now is that you didn't do that homework. However, it is quite natural that we in four parties now see different societal challenges. We must also be humble in that we lost the last election. Then it is important to develop a policy to meet today's societal challenges. Who wins a discussion like this? Between us it is often the one who has the arguments on his side. I'll try to give you a couple of arguments to get a better wage formation. There is a part of what is now on Parliament's table that is good, the Minister for Finance, when it comes to meeting new arrivals. It is a good thing that you are continuing the efforts of the previous alliance government to develop validation, that is to say, to translate knowledge from other countries. It is good that you continue to expand what we were working on in the field of supplementary education. It is good that you are implementing the proposed reforms we had for Swedish education for immigrants. Above all, however, it helps those who have a higher education among those who are now coming. About half of those who are now coming have such a low level of education that they find it quite difficult to get into the Swedish labour market. We can close our eyes to it and say that we hope that we will somehow magically solve those problems, or we can tackle a fundamental problem. Then Magdalena Andersson says a little casually, as about everyone on the left says things: Yes, but the Liberals want to lower wages. What we have proposed is the following: Young people and those who are new in Sweden should be able to enter the labour market at a slightly lower salary, a level of 14 000 – 16 000 SEK. The employer's contribution will be avoided in a simple system, and then the employer's salary will be halved. It is clear that there are a number of people who will then get into a lower salary, but there are above all more who enter the labour market at all.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-942	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very clear answer. This means that what Anna Kinberg Batra said, namely that this will not happen, is not the message that applies. It is also clear that it is not Anna Kinberg Batra who runs the Alliance. Thank you very much.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-944	Mr President, I would like to No, we're four parties working together. Perhaps it would sometimes be good to send some Social Democrats on course. I think the environmentalists would appreciate that. It's kind of not a party that decides in a government. That was the success when we sat in a coalition government. The problem you are now struggling with, Magdalena Andersson, is that you have made it a brand to break the electoral promises. And that's because you didn't prepare. Will Ulf Kristersson or me or Jan Björklund or Anna Kinberg Batra win the discussion about how we lower thresholds? We'll see about that. What I can promise is that we will jointly come up with concrete proposals to lower thresholds in, because we realise that it is always better for those who are now fleeing to Sweden or for a young person to have a job to go to and their own salary to live on than to get stuck in exclusion. I'm concerned. I am very concerned that there is no policy at all that sees the people who have come here with very low education. There is a risk that there will be a social disaster if the government does not open its eyes soon. We will have a joint programme when we go to elections. We will present that before election day. We won't make your mistakes again.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-949	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say this: beyond a good economic climate, it is clear that a foundation for a well-functioning economy has seen better days. I mean better days than when big banks helped wealthy people hide assets in tax havens. This damages trust, and trust is hugely important in a society, not least for the economy – trust in each other, in institutions such as banks, in authorities treating everyone equally, in that there is a welfare on the day I need it. And trust does not arise in a vacuum. It is founded when we feel love and be seen and respected in union with others in a cohesive society where we can learn right and wrong and develop solidarity with the victim. Trust is affected in our relationships, in our language, in how we talk about others and about each other. And the basis of trust is respect for the absolute value of every human being. More action is needed against tax evasion. We've done a lot of things as an alliance, but I'm sure more can be done. It takes tougher hands and tougher rules vis-à-vis banks, but it is also clear that a never-so-wider regulatory framework and never so many laws and governance documents are not enough. What is right must also be written in our hearts. Therefore, good ethics, education and values in schools, universities, government agencies and companies and in public conversation are central. Mr President, I would like to Everyone should contribute to the good society where no one is held back and no one is left behind. Everyone should contribute, and everyone must be allowed to contribute, but that is not the case in Sweden today. We see a division of the labour market, where an increasing proportion of the unemployed are in a vulnerable position on the labour market and where foreign born and under-skilled people have shrinking job opportunities. The gap deepens between those who have a job and those who do not have – those who do not get a chance to enter the Swedish labour market, who are never in demand and who never become part of a working community. What happens to their faith in the future and their trust? What happens to their children, who grow up and don't see their parents go to work year after year? These are, of course, the ones we are talking about when we are talking about the government's total absence of structural reforms in this spring proposal. Sure, you make a number of bets. Fast track and more validation are being introduced, and there are a number of initiatives in the spring change budget, many of which are laudable. We can also agree that we need more and better vocational training. On the whole, however, there is a lack of answers on how to dismantle the barriers that are becoming higher for some people in the labour market. Instead, the government seems to be working hard to attack those of us who come up with proposals for lower thresholds, such as our proposal for introductions. We, who have seen how the labour market has changed, want to do something about this. It is the same problem as the IMF, the OECD and the Fiscal Council point out: the need to lower the thresholds to jobs in Sweden. We need to do something about the problem of high standards that knock out jobs and exclude people with lower qualifications. We need reforms that create ways in for everyone. It is about a broader RUT sector and about measures that allow jobs that have disappeared but that can be carried out by staff with lower education to return. These jobs may not be carried out at all today, or they are carried out by highly trained staff, such as health care teams. We also need to greatly simplify labour market support in order to help more people get in. But in the spring bill it becomes clear: It echoes empty in the government's reform workshop. Light's out. You seem to have gone home for the day. The good opportunity, when the wheels spin, to make long-term reforms in terms of labour market and welfare, is not taken, and it is the most vulnerable one fails. This means years lost for Sweden when it comes to necessary reforms. So acts, or does not act, a government that is ill prepared and unable or unable to pursue the reform agenda that Sweden needs. But the government is not content with this. Rather, it does the opposite and dismantles good reforms. Year after year we have seen a fantastic development with the RUT reform, with more companies, more customers and more jobs every year. There have been thousands of new jobs, and half of those who receive them are born abroad and four out of five come from unemployment or dismissal. Then the government would like a word on the team and halve the RUT ceiling. It is true that a couple of services are added, but it still creates uncertainty. Then what do we see happening? Well, there's going to be a trend break in development. Turnover in the RUT sector fell by 8 per cent in January 2016, and 63 per cent of RUT companies estimate that they will now need to reduce the number of employees. The government also has other measures. Now that we have a development with more elderly people working before the government a special salary tax for the elderly, as a consultation body after the consultation body warns against introducing because it may push people out of the labour market and impair opportunities for those who want to put golden edge on life at the end of the working life. There are also other challenges that the government ducks for. When the government took office, money was set aside at the Ministry of Social Affairs for a national dementia plan for better work against dementias – a huge challenge! The first thing the government did was to delete this money, and it is actually quite upsetting. Even when the Alliance's budget won approval and the Riksdag decided that the money would go to a national dementia plan, the government did not implement it, but the money went to other things. Now an international research group warns that the increase in dementia may lead to chaos in health care. We see a sharp increase in the number of people suffering from dementia in Sweden. It is estimated that in 15 years' time it could have gone from 160 000 to 250 000. And the biggest problem, the researchers say, is that many dementias are forced to stay at home against their will. They can't move to a retirement home. But also investment aid for retirement homes was removed by the government, and the prepared proposal for a retirement home guarantee, where the elderly would have their choice when to move to a retirement home, was never implemented. It is time to reintroduce this or to ensure that it comes in place, so that it becomes greater power for the individual to choose instead of the authorities to have the power. Mr President, I would like to Of course, more money for municipalities and county councils is welcome. There are great needs in many activities. We Christian Democrats will also provide more resources in our option this autumn, as we have done so many times in the past. But the most important thing for municipalities and for welfare is how jobs develop. We have heard the government talking about a conflict between reduced taxes and resources for welfare. However, we can see that during the time of the alliance government, resources for municipalities increased by 10 per cent, cleared for inflation, and that was a sharp increase in fiscal power. This was due to consistent reforms for more jobs. We can see that the government's anti-job policy is solid. The policy of tens of billions in increased taxes on working and hiring continues, even though it will lead to fewer employed people than otherwise. When the government does not reform the labour market as it should, and has poor cost control in public spending and does not develop welfare to meet tomorrow's challenges, we will also see risks to welfare in the future. It is not risks in general, but the most vulnerable who are affected, not least those who have fled from war and persecution. Those who do not get a chance to enter the labour market are those who are most affected when the government is unable to do this kind of reform. It is those who are most dependent on functioning welfare today and in the future. It is my conviction that we must do more, that the government must do more and that the government must present reforms to enable us to see a Sweden where no one is held back and no one is left behind.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-970	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jakob Forssmed! I wanted to hear a little about how Jakob Forssmed views the distribution policy analysis that is included in the spring bill. I don't know if you've had time to read it, but I hope, of course, that you think it looks good. The distribution policy analysis shows that it is those with the lowest incomes who get the most money in the budgets that the Left Party has negotiated with the government. This is different from the time when Jakob Forssmed's party was in the government and it was above all those with the highest income who got better off. I remember Anders Borg's graphs, and perhaps Jakob Forssmed does too. There you could see that those with income in decile 1 came very bad out all the time, while in decile 10, i.e. those with the highest income, came out very well. One can see that those who have earned the best have received 10 times more in percentage increase in their disposable income than the 10 percent who earn the least. So it was during your time in power. We also saw that relative poverty increased by over 40%. Especially ill were single women with children. But now it looks completely different. It should, I think, please someone who talks a lot about being able to feel trust in society. Trust is also based on the fact that we do not have too large economic differences in society. It shows research and proven experience. If the differences increase very much, trust between people decreases. It affects health. It affects children's health, above all. It also affects children's school outcomes. With the strong words of trust in society, there should be an interest on the part of the Christian Democrats in actually seeing a different distribution policy from that of their eight years in power.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-975	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for the question. I find distribution and cohesion in a society very interesting and important. If you studied the graphs as carefully as you say, you also know that decile 1, which you are talking about, had a very good exchange over time in terms of the reforms that were made. When it became easier to get to work, that group also had greater opportunities when you saw it in a longer perspective. It's also very important. The big gap exists between those who have a job and those who do not have a job. That is why the best distribution policy is the one that creates more jobs and that ensures that the 700 000 who currently lack upper secondary education are given a chance to enter the Swedish labour market. That would be the absolute best we could do for Sweden in terms of distribution policy. It's a big problem that you don't give those people the chance. You do not have in your budget as you are presenting today any reforms for how to get a job in the Swedish labour market. I and my party have pushed for increased child allowances and for an increased child part of the housing allowance. It is perhaps the most accurate one can do in the short term to strengthen the distribution in Sweden and ensure that families with children get better out. I've been pushing to raise the basic level of parental insurance. It is also a reform that has contributed to a better distribution and to more people in Sweden getting a share of the increase in income. It's very important.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-979	Mr President, I would like to Jakob Forssmed talks warmly about this. I'll say that you had some good reforms– I also like raising child allowances and so on. But reality actually looked a little different. In fact, those with the highest income came out much better than those with the lowest income. I know that Anders Borg tried to hide it in his graphs. He always had a shadow drawn among the lower incomes so that at some point in the future they would also benefit from a reduction in taxes for the rich. It was some kind of magic trick that he expected to happen-- we all know it didn't happen. We can look at what it actually was like. The 10 percent with the highest income received an improved economy of over SEK 100,000 per year during your time at the government, while the 10 percent with the lowest income received about SEK 2,000 more in income. It says quite a lot about which you prioritised to spend the resources that we have in common in society. It was always those with the highest income.
i-c1a0ce90b0db6f9f-982	Mr President, I would like to The job tax deduction was and is still in the budget that the Left Party is presenting and which you are behind, where the job tax credit is a key element, designed so that, in the case of lower labour income, a greater percentage reduction in tax is achieved. You're on. You put that on Parliament's table. The idea of this is, of course, that it should pay off to work and that the marginal effects should be reduced when moving from grants and allowances to work. You can call this magic trick if you want to, but in the long term it is actually quite good that people get more opportunities and more drive to get to work. I agree that in the short term, in the short term, distribution policy efforts need to be made to keep a society together. That's where we're in complete agreement. But we definitely do not agree on how to create the best cohesive society over time. It is not a question of creating large groups that live in alienation and live on subsidies and benefits. It will not create the cohesive society that I want to see.
