i-8cd1939055f78574-5	Mr President, I would like to Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Hans Wallmark has asked me whether planning or preparations are underway for Sweden to assist the UN in operations in countries such as Cyprus, Libya or Syria, and whether it is possible for the Swedish Armed Forces to participate in international operations during the year. I share the questioner's view that 2016 is likely to be another year with an eventful development. Sweden is already contributing to a large number of crisis management operations to promote peace and security. We work widely, and the tools are both military and civilian. Sweden participates in operations led by the UN, the EU, the OSSE and NATO. The Swedish Armed Forces are already participating in a number of international efforts. A few weeks ago, I and the Minister of Defence visited Mali, where 250 Swedish women and men from the Swedish Armed Forces work for peace and security within the framework of the UN operation Minusma. There, the Swedish intelligence company performs an excellent and highly appreciated work, thereby contributing to the security and protection of the civilian population. During the spring, the Government will submit a proposal to the Riksdag with proposals to extend the Swedish contribution to Minusma until June 2017. In Mali, we also had the opportunity to visit EUTM Mali, where Sweden and other EU countries carry out training activities for the Malian military. The effort is important in the process of creating a well-trained, well-organised and functional defence force, which is central to the Malian government's independence in managing security in the country. The contributions to Minusma and EUTM Mali are in line with Sweden's broader commitment to peace and development in Africa. When France, in the wake of the terrorist attacks in Paris, invoked Article 42(7) of the EU Treaty, Sweden was among the first Member States to reply. It shows that, if necessary, we can quickly mobilise broad and substantial support for international crisis management. Depending on how the situation develops in various trouble spots around the world during 2016, the UN, the EU or others may request support for crisis management operations from Sweden and other countries. If there are political preconditions for crisis management operations in war-torn countries, Sweden is prepared to contribute both civilian and military. However, since the appropriations for international crisis management have been gradually reduced, the priorities for Swedish intervention grants need to be carefully considered. Such an effort must be based on a solid international legal basis and there must be a clear organisational decision-making and management structure. In addition, a Swedish commitment must be requested, effective, long-term and based on available Swedish resources.
i-4N8AXmfesMugPP1CGJxWJv	Mr President, I would like to Good morning, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and good morning, dear colleagues, this bitter, crisp Friday morning. My interpellation can actually be divided into three parts, and I understand that the foreign minister's response was divided into three parts. First of all: The first part is about Swedish women's and men's efforts abroad, which are appreciated and important. It is important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has done, that we, as often as we can in Parliament, should harangue them, commend them, and see them for the efforts they make in different parts of the world for our country, for world peace, for security and stability, for vulnerable women, men and children. The second part concerns the fact that 2016 will be a relatively intense year, as in 2015. Some of those processes I point to in my interpellation, such as Libya. We see Libya of disintegration, how ISIL/ Daish establishes terrorist cells, and we see the proximity to Europe's coast and the risk of new migratory flows. There are also attempts to create some form of government of unity and unity between the various parties. There may also be various types of requests for stabilising measures. Not least the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows that Italy is one of the countries that is pushing forward on this issue. There is also Syria. The process going on there is anything but clear and unambiguous. What is happening is appalling, with images of starving children and people and further attacks by President Asad on his own population. The unrest between Shia and Sunni and the unrest between Iran and Saudi can also cast their shadow over it. At the same time, there is an ongoing process that can start a political process towards 2017. It may also require presence, and there are countries that are interested. Then there is Cyprus. There are hopeful signs. All these areas may require different forms of international action and questions to different countries for help and support. The third part is about whether there is money. The Minister for Foreign Affairs replied, however, as the appropriations for international crisis management have been gradually reduced, the priorities for Swedish intervention grants need to be carefully considered. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to The brutal truth is that for 2016, in practice, all the money for international efforts is spent. There's not much more. This was the reason why the request from France and the support that Sweden came to give were the money that could be scraped together, a little over 40 million for 2016. We have discussed the issue and there will be a topical debate on Tuesday, but it is no secret that I and my party are among those who think the sum is insufficient. Is it the case that the lack of funds for international efforts for 2016, and perhaps even for 2017, will be limitative? Even if there are talks and wishes, Sweden will be forced to say no for economic reasons, because there is no funding for international efforts. Could the Minister of Foreign Affairs try to convince his colleague, the Minister of Finance, to allocate additional appropriations for international action if necessary? Mr President, I would like to Let me be clear about myself and the Moderates. We cannot see funds being taken from the defence budget, from national defence, and transferred to international activities. In that case, we will have to work together to find money somewhere else. As one of the parties behind the defence agreement, our party has said that now the commitment to national defence is a priority in the defence decision. Therefore, other resources are needed for more international efforts in 2016 and 2017.
i-8cd1939055f78574-22	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the question of the money. We can fully agree that it is a great advantage if we are able, first and foremost, to stick to the defense arrangement. As Hans Wallmark well knows, both the Secretary of Defense and I are in complete agreement. The Secretary of Defense constantly repeats that it is the settlement that serves as a guideline for his handling. This is to restore a system where much too much was pulled down on the Swedish defence. When we decide on contributions to international efforts, this means that the remaining space is limited. It's about Minusma and other contributions. There are currently limited opportunities to participate in new actions in 2016, not least in view of reduced resources. The government is keen to implement what we have agreed. If such a discussion arises, we must also be prepared to act and look at where money can be found, whether it is possible to redirect resources or whether we need to redistribute or find other ways of financing. It is also very difficult to estimate where the next major crisis is coming. What we're doing today is pretty amazing. We are involved in a wide range of actions – where, of course, one can also decide to down-priority something to upgrade the efforts elsewhere. We are involved in 13 military operations. This involves a total of 350 Swedes in international military operations. We have 200 people in 22 civilian crisis management operations worldwide. One example is the 25 Swedes present in the special observation mission in Ukraine. We are also in Moldova, Afghanistan, Georgia, Colombia, Mali, Senegal and Niger. Of course, there is always room to discuss whether we need to cut back somewhere to put resources on something else. But it is an ongoing budgeting discussion and resource discussion, and it is impossible today to know where all the new needs come from. I think the most important thing of all, including what Mr Wallmark said, is that when we go in with civilian or military crisis management operations, we should seek and get the greatest and widest possible political support for it. As we usually say – Hans Wallmark knows, and I think we agree on that: they should feel that they have our full support when we send them in the direction of danger. We will continue to strive for this in the current and future years as well.
i-8cd1939055f78574-29	Mr President, I would like to It is just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says with the list of various contributions made by Swedish women and men – it is appreciated, and it is important. That is why I think it is a good thing that we in Parliament have repeatedly said: you are doing good, essential and important work for the cause of peace and in the interests of Sweden. I fully share the view that it is important that there is broad participation when we send women and men away for international action. They shouldn't have to defend what they're doing. We're supposed to send them away. When we press the yes button, we take responsibility, and then we'll shoulder it. I therefore regret that we did not reach a broad agreement also on Sweden's response to the French request under the Treaty of Lisbon 42.7. But there will be a special debate on it on Tuesday, so we can save the arguments for the fight against ISIL or Daish until then. It is just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs notes – we have a broad defence settlement between five parties. As a spokesperson of the Moderates' defence policy, I have taken on as my task of repeatedly asking this kind of control questions. Now we've invested resources. We are making a trend break, as the Swedish Armed Forces themselves describe it. Then it is important that we do not take resources from the defence arrangement and the defence effort to something else. I think it is good, as the Minister for Defence has said and as the Minister for Foreign Affairs now repeats: no, we should not transfer funds from the national envelope to, for example, international activities. I'll watch over that, too. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, we have for a long time seen a disengagement in Sweden. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that it had its acceleration during the 90s and early 00s. I can say this as former Chairman of the Municipal Council in Ängelholm, where the aircraft flotilla was seen to be phased out as part of what was for many years a Swedish defence policy – that it was the same as unit closures. I am pleased that we can now help to take the first steps up, where we are jointly investing more resources. I believe – it is not a secret, Mr President – that more will be required of us. Then we come to this with international efforts. It is just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs states: there is really no money for 2016. Then it would be – at least I understand it as – frustrating if someone from the United Nations in New York, Ban Ki Moon or someone else would call Foreign Minister Wallström and ask: Can you contribute to something in Libya? Can you contribute to something in Syria? Can you contribute to something in Cyprus? The brutal reality is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs may, for economic reasons, be forced to say: No, this is probably not the case for 2016. It is not certain that this is even the case for 2017. I think it would be good if those in charge of government had the courage and the ability to start thinking about whether they can free up resources through budget cuts elsewhere or redeployments in other areas to cover up with resources for international efforts. I think there are many of us in this House – the Foreign Minister, myself and many others included – who think it is important that we show this international responsibility. I would therefore like once again, Mr President, to call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs to discuss with his fellow Minister for Finance and to examine the possibilities of strengthening the allocation for international activities without taking the money from national defence so that we can have an opening in case the Minister for Foreign Affairs receives a call for an operation in Libya, Syria or Cyprus in 2016.
i-8cd1939055f78574-40	Mr President, I would like to After eight years of moderate defence ministers, we now have a Social Democratic Minister for Defence, and after eight years of cuts in defence, we finally have an initiative. We also had two defence ministers who resigned, so we have had three moderate defence ministers if I remember correctly. But that is not really my point on this issue, but my point is that Mr Wallmark is calling for redistributions and is calling on the Foreign Minister to turn to the Minister for Finance to get money. My question to Hans Wallmark is whether he is prepared to address Ulf Kristersson, who is a fiscal spokesperson for the Moderates. After all, you Moderates are constantly proposing major tax cuts, which means that the resources of the state budget are limited. Should your budget break through, it will, of course, be less money. Mr President, I would like to My question is therefore addressed to Mr Wallmark. How does he view asking questions to his own fiscal spokesperson?
i-8cd1939055f78574-44	Mr President, I would like to I welcome every call from UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon. I even hope he'll come visit soon. Sweden as a country has nothing to be ashamed of. Sweden is one of the most generous contributors. We really belong to the circle of countries that are cooperating with the UN, and, as you know, we are sending efforts, civilian and military, to crisis and trouble spots around the world. We have contributed in every way we can, and that is appreciated – including the effort to France. The French have repeatedly publicly thanked us for responding so quickly, and they regard our efforts as a substantial and important contribution to their efforts. It's all about what you ask. It is clear that we need to be prepared for further requests for action in 2016. What do you want? It could be an advisor. This could be civilian operations, personnel or other. Today, we can only guess or speculate about it, depending on how these various conflicts develop. We must also be able to act flexibly. It goes without saying that we need to talk to the Minister of Finance about how to resolve it if there is a major crisis and we really need to redirect resources or so. However, as Hans Wallmark has admitted here, both the Minister for Defence and I are fully aware that the defence agreement is valid. That is what we should respect and honour in the future. We must also be able to respond in every other way to any UN request. But as I said, we have nothing to fear from any phone call from either the UN, the OSSE or the EU. We have been very loyal and supportive, and we are also a very generous contributor. Let me also say something about Mali because the Secretary of Defense and I were there. It was a very interesting visit, and they could confirm that what they are doing is very welcome. It is appreciated, and they are highly respected there. We've really sent them to a source of concern. There are many things that can be dangerous. What I said to them was that I know that I come with all of Sweden's support for what they do and that I have political backing for it. It is good that Hans Wallmark says that we fully agree on the message to our women and men in the field. They are doing a wonderful job, not to mention their families and other loved ones who are constantly worried while giving them their support, wherever in the world they are. I do not really know what we are fundamentally debating or what I would find to disagree with Hans Wallmark about. It is good that we can agree with each other on so much and on the basic principles. Of course I will talk to my Minister of Finance, if and when it is necessary, and I hope that Mr Wallmark will do the same with his fiscal spokesperson.
i-8cd1939055f78574-54	Mr President, I would like to It is appreciated and a little touching that both Eva-Lena Jansson and Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström are calling for Ulf Kristersson to take responsibility for the budget. I wish that day could soon happen that it is Ulf Kristersson who is responsible for Sweden's overall finances. That would be good, Mr President, in many ways. I'm pretty convinced of that. We would have a lower spending burden than that presented by the current government, a better tax distribution and, hopefully, money both for defence and for international efforts. Thank you for hoping for our ability to get Ulf Kristersson to solve this! However, I would like to mention what the Minister for Foreign Affairs concluded with, namely Mali. I think it is important that we repeatedly indicate that we stand together behind the Swedish women and men who participate. It is also important that we point out that it is dangerous. That is why we have the shared responsibility to say: yes, you are there for our interest, you are there for the sake of peace, and we have made the decision. The Foreign Minister wondered, Mr President, what we do not agree on. I believe and hope that some of the processes can be resolved, and that may require international action in and around Libya, in Cyprus or in and around Syria. But the Swedish Government does not have any money for international efforts for 2016. As far as 2017 is concerned, it can be used up quite quickly, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I know that the Swedish Armed Forces are sitting and looking at whether an extension in Mali is possible and what it could look like. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, this could be desirable. International action may be needed, and it will require money. That's why I'm calling for alert.
i-8cd1939055f78574-58	Mr President, I would like to His Wallmark probably misunderstood me on purpose. What I was trying to describe was that Hans Wallmark and the party he represents are trying to pretend they have money that no one else has. On the contrary, there are major tax cuts in the government budget that has been submitted to Parliament and that applies to this year. Then you should be honest with it and then tell me where you intend to take the money. So far, taxes have been reduced and there is less money for education and less money for a lot of other things. That now, after having pulled down for eight years, it is good that the investment in defence exists speaks for itself t.
i-8cd1939055f78574-60	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! As nice as you say, Mr Wallmark, the fact remains that you are cutting so much taxes that you will have less money in your budget. That's the problem. You can't promise any more money for the stakes when you pull down. That seems to be the most important point, the only point that applies. Then we shall continue to be pleased that we agree that Sweden contributes to a large number of efforts to promote peace and security. We do it patiently and long-term, and we work extensively with both civilian and military tools. The UN, the EU, the OSSE and NATO know that we are committed, that we are contributing, that we are loyal partners in every way. It is a fact that for a country like Sweden, foreign policy is in many ways the main line of defence. Through an active foreign policy, we, too, together with others, contribute to security. Swedish women and men who are sent out into the world should feel – and I think they feel it according to what you say, Hans Wallmark – that they have our full and undivided support. It is a fine Swedish tradition that we have a consensus on these issues. This is an important message from us here. We thank them for what they do, and we will of course continue to contribute to international efforts, also in 2016. We will see to it that this task is solved.
i-8cd1939055f78574-64	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what concrete action has taken on the issue of phasing out the employment phase since the debate in May and what kind of jobs and training people will receive in the employment phase. I have also been asked about the answer I have given earlier, that social enterprises should not be alarmed, remains and what message I have to all the companies that have started to phase out their businesses. Katarina Brännström has asked me how I intend to ensure that those who are currently enrolled in the employment phase are offered a meaningful alternative. Today, a very small number of participants in phase 3 are moving on to work or studies. Unlike the previous government, which considered it sufficient to employ only people, the current government believes that the participants in phase 3 should be offered real jobs or training but also active efforts that bring them closer to the labour market. For participants in today's phase 3, the government has introduced a special study initiative with the possibility to study for up to one year, with continued activity support, at Komvux, University and University of Applied Sciences. The Extra Services Regulation entered into force on 1 November 2015. On 17 December 2015, the Government made decisions including implementation of the proposals included in the 2016 Budget Bill. The new provisions will enter into force on 1 February, in other words in a few days' time. I would like to take this opportunity to explain all the changes affecting participants in current phase 3. The Government extends the additional services to the activities of public authorities. The influx of new participants into current employment places is halted and the employment sites are to be phased out by 31 January 2018. The new rules require the Public Employment Service to carry out a gradual phase-out of employment places over a two-year period. At the same time, the government is increasing the opportunities for those who have been unemployed for the longest time to take part in work training. People who are far removed from the labour market often need a number of complementary actions. The Government believes that work training is an important building block which, unlike employment places, requires organisers to adapt the effort to the needs of the participant in order to get closer to the labour market. The government has also reviewed the job and development guarantee, which is too detailed, which is hampering individuals and employment intermediaries. Today, the Job and Development Guarantee is divided into two initial phases with specific actions in each phase, and demands that the scope of time in activities be at a specific level. Today's detailed regulation means that individuals cannot always be offered the very efforts they are deemed to need, and therefore the phase-out is now being abolished. It is important that Arbetsförmedlingen can offer measures based on each individual's needs and conditions to increase outflow to work and studies. The employment services have also been increased in order to provide personalised support. Further changes from 1 February 2016 for all participants in the Job and Development Guarantee are the possibility to study part-time for six months alongside participation in the Guarantee. The Government also extends the possibility of studying Swedish for immigrants within the guarantee from six to twelve months. A new investment is being introduced in vocational courses in the shortage professions at folk high school for up to 24 months. Studies in Swedish for immigrants and in shortage professions should be able to take place with continued activity support. I would also like to emphasise once again that the government believes that labour-integrated social enterprises are making a great effort to create jobs for people who have been unemployed for a long time. These companies pursue business activities with overall objectives of integrating people who have great difficulties in obtaining or maintaining a job, in society and in working life and where employees usually receive different types of labour market policy support. Many social enterprises currently organising jobs in phase 3 are also job training organisers in the Job and Development Guarantee. With the changes now being made, I believe that work integration social enterprises should continue to play a very important role in giving those furthest away from the labour market a way back. The government will also continue the dialogue with labour integration social enterprises.
i-8cd1939055f78574-74	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. An election promise from the current government was that immediately after the elections, the employment phase would be phased out to replace it with, in particular, additional services in the public sector. This has caused a great deal of concern to those who are now in the employment phase. In addition, the non-profit organisations are an important engine of migration reception and so on, and they have also made great efforts for the people who have existed and are present in the employment phase. The average time they have been away from the regular labour market has been stated to be between seven and eight years. It is therefore a question of people who have been away for a very long time from the regular labour market. The organisations have been able to see each individual and receive them in a good way, as bridge builders, so that they can then return to the regular labour market. As from 1 February, there will be no more new places in the employment phase, we heard from the Minister. That is why there is also great concern among the people who are approaching a period when they could find employment. Secondhand sales are a practice of many organisations. Many people in the employment phase have found employment there. Even now, the organizations that sell secondhand are saying that they have fewer employees now than before. You haven't dared to bring in more because you haven't known what it would be like. I really have most questions about how the extra services will be designed and what information the Minister can give those who are worried about what will happen. Is the auxiliary services another name for emergency work, which we had in the 1970s? I and many people with me got standby jobs in the public sector after we graduated. For example, I was a student assistant. It was absolutely not a protected job, but you got there and started working right away. If this is the way it is to be, it is not possible to compare with what it is like today in the employment phase. Many of the 40 000 currently present in the employment phase are very far removed from the labour market. When they are now going out into the public sector, which is already under a lot of pressure because there are many new residents coming to Sweden, I assume that they need guidance and a good introduction. During the 23 months of the phase-out of the employment phase, approximately 2 000 people per month will leave the jobs they have today and move to additional services. They will be accommodated mainly within municipalities, if I have understood correctly. How should municipalities manage with a good reception and a good introduction? I just spoke to a manager at SKL, who didn't really know how to do this. Thus, 2 000 people per month are gradually going to the public sector. I have many questions about the extra services. Will civil society be involved in these services at all?
i-8cd1939055f78574-81	Mr President, I would like to In fact, it has been 15 months without a single concrete measure from the government despite the major election promises of a rapid phase-out and a very high tailfall in phase-out phase 3. But if you're unprepared and you haven't done your homework, it won't be much of a result. We now see a government that is perhaps the weakest and least effective Sweden has had in modern times. Not much will succeed. Ylva Johansson now tells us in his reply about all the recent decisions made by the government. But the road to the results you want to achieve is long, very long. The settlement is in nte so simple. When in time will f as 3 really be finished, and what does it look like? That's an interesting question. The odds for this to be accomplished within two years are very high. What is worse is: How will municipalities and county councils be able to shake up all these extra services? No one knows. I have spoken to many at the Employment Service as well as within municipalities. They say that they will not be able to do this. In fact, it is now all time high in phase 3 with almost 40,000 places. All these will therefore be phased out in two years and replaced by something else. Each person should receive an individual assessment, says Ylva Johansson. How is this possible in such a short time? Most municipalities have not even started their work. In Arbetsförmedlingen's report The forecast for payments 2016 – 2020, which came the day before yesterday – it is very interesting – Arbetsförmedlingen writes that the Government's goals are very ambitious. Trainee places and extra services a requires a lot. There must be very close cooperation between the Employment Service and the municipalities, which takes a very long time and does not yet work. It is said that measures will therefore increase at a relatively slow pace. Similarly, it is described that it has been very difficult to find places in Komvux. It describes that the refugee situation, which will last for several years and be a major problem for the municipalities, will be the priority. It will not be possible to set aside time for trainee jobs, training contracts and extra services as the government and Ylva Johansson mean. Moreover, it is interesting that the report states that it believes that the unemployment rate in Sweden will be 7.5 per cent by 2020, which is far more than in countries such as Germany and the United Kingdom. There are doubts in both SKL and Arbetsförmedlingen, and many are also concerned about all those who will not be able to cope with studies or the jobs that the extra services entail. What are they gonna do? What specific measures does the Minister envisage for these people who have obstacles and problems of various kinds, which might mean that they can in principle be considered unemployable? The Public Employment Service has stated that it wants to retain part of the phase 3 sites. What about it? That would be interesting to hear. Ylva Johansson talks a lot about jobs and what is to happen. However, I think that the enormous challenge facing us is taken very lightly. What will happen when we see that work today is not even started? The challenges for municipalities and the Public Employment Service are so great that everyone I have spoken to says that this is an impossible task. What does the government say about that?
i-8cd1939055f78574-91	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this issue again! Yesterday I was here asking questions and asked the question about phase 3. Question Time is now very fast, so we did not really have time to develop it. That is why I joined the debate today. Yesterday, the Minister for Labour said to me: I am surprised that Mr Pethrus thinks Phase 3 was a good measure. I have no reason to defend the measure itself. On the other hand, I would very much like to defend those people who feel a great deal of anxiety today. I have met social enterprises on several occasions during the autumn. They say: We don't really know what's going to happen. It is clear that it is not good if they cannot give clear signals to the fragile people in their activities. These are people who may have been on sick leave for five, seven or nine years and who have then begun to enter a social community and may eventually be on their way to work. If the figures I have received earlier from the Swedish Public Employment Service's measurements are correct, 89 percent of the participants were satisfied with the effort they received. I also found another number. In 2013, 63 per cent got jobs in some form. Of course, many of these people are wondering: ‘ Okay, if we're not going to have this effort, are we really going to be able to go into a regular service or a trainee service out in the welfare sector? I'm not so sure. As I mentioned yesterday, there is an internal memo that has apparently leaked, at least according to an article I found online, from Arbetsförmedlingen in 2015. The Employment Service writes that there are people who are very far removed from the labour market and who will neither be eligible for additional welfare services nor will be able to benefit from education. That is why they say they want to keep some phase 3 sites, despite the fact that the programme is being phased out. Then I think like this: Yes, but then you want to retain some form of work training, what is happening in social enterprises today. There you have to start feeling in a little protected form, start going to work, create a routine around your day but also develop potentials that you have. At a social company there was a woman who had started to make beautiful bags with different applications, which she was good at. A man made the Web magazine for the social enterprise and trained on it. Maybe he can get a job in that sector. It is clear that we must retain such activities. That's why we get a little worried. How can extra welfare services meet the needs of all these people? Now the answer says this will be phased out for two years. It is good that it should not happen in a week or two, but the question is: Will the efforts be enough? It is a bit contradictory to say at first that phase 3 was very bad and then that these people may need work training. Now you're backing up a little bit. Not only do you think of trainee services, but you also talk about work training in the reply from the Minister for Labour. The question is: What kind of work training is it? Where is it going to happen? Can it not happen to social enterprises in the future?
i-8cd1939055f78574-99	Mr President, I would like to I think it is a rather depressing view that the Moderates here express when you somehow see no opportunities in people. After eight years of a failed moderate labour market policy, which has locked people in phase 3, there is now doubt that people will be able to have an individual response to the Employment Service. There you should be able to see everyone and see what people need for support. It is also about seeing that people will be able to assimilate education. I was at the Arbetsförmedlingen on Monday. A woman in the employment phase now saw the opportunity to finally study and assimilate an education in order to take up a job. It was about being able to work in childcare. It was a fantastic development for her to be able to educate herself and then get a job with salary in order to be in phase 3. The compensation there is very different, but above all it has served as a lock-in. I haven't actually met anyone – I don't know if Lotta Finstorp has done it – who longs for phase 3. You could almost get the impression that when people are in these different parts, they look forward to finally getting to phase 3. On the contrary, I have met people who are very concerned about what is going to happen to them. What if they cannot get the support that the Public Employment Service provides them in the form of targeted measures, individual plans, training measures, traineeships or whatever they may need and end up in some places? Désirée Pethrus expresses the fact that some are very satisfied. I haven't met anyone who's been happy with the compensation. Above all, it is a question of giving them the opportunity to get to work. Then we know that there are other elements to labour market policy. Samhall, for example, could be a well-functioning place for some of the people who are here. But I believe that extra services with a collective wage are a much better way to deal with people in unemployment than to lock them in phase 3.
i-8cd1939055f78574-104	Mr President, I would like to Let us remind ourselves of what it sounded like when we introduced phase 3. Then the argument was that it would be a deterrent. You'd give up on people. When they ended up there, they would no longer receive any contributions from the Employment Service. They were to be placed in phase 3 as a final station. It is a human view that the government and we Social Democrats do not share. There's always hope for people. There is always a possibility of progression. Then, of course, one should have respect for the complexity of this. There are a great many people today in phase 3. They have different conditions. Many of them are fragile, and many are very far removed from the labour market. This will require several different efforts to help people get into work or on their way to work. Katarina Brännström pretends she doesn't hear my answer. I'm going through the various parts that the government has introduced. There will be many different elements to this. I have explained that in the answer. Lotta Finstorp compares with emergency work. It's not really comparable. Many times this is perhaps more fragile people, who are further away from the labour market than Lotta Finstorp did when she had a rescue job. It is true, however, that it reinforces extra services or special employment support in activities, and it provides quite generous mentor support to finance the support that the person may need in the workplace in order to function in a new environment. We can take the example that we have right now in Sweden's schools. The vast majority of schools have received an enormous number of newly arrived students during the autumn. There is a need for more teachers, but in many schools there is also a need for more adults who can be a support and a charter in school. These are examples of jobs that could be suitable for additional services. Special employment aid is another type of subsidised employment available to phase 3 workers. It is also open to civil society and to all other parts of the labour market. I respect Désirée Pethrus' genuine commitment to these people and social enterprises. It is true that people have very different conditions. Not everyone can go directly into employment. Perhaps not everyone is able to study full - time. It may be about part-time studies or equipping the individual in different ways to get closer to the labour market. Then work training is a very good way, where there is also a hope that the individual will take steps closer and closer to the labour market. You're supposed to equip the individual. This is a business that social enterprises are doing today and which they are very good at. I see that we will need more of that activity, work training. And I see that social enterprises are an important provider of the service, which I believe many in phase 3 will benefit from. Unemployment is now falling – let us remember that. For the first time in many years, long-term unemployment is also falling. It's very pleasing. Today we have a cyclical situation that is the best in a long time when it comes to getting people who are far from the labour market into regular work with or without support. It goes without saying that we should use that opportunity to ensure that as many people as possible are able to make a living through their own work.
i-8cd1939055f78574-112	Mr President, I would like to Eva-Lena Jansson wonders if anyone has longed to phase 3. That question surprises me very much. If you are part of a labour market policy measure, it is because you are far from the labour market with all that it means. Maybe it's because of mental illness that you're there. I think that was a very strange question. Minist rn says that the reform of phase 3 was designed to act as a deterrent. Excuse me, but churches, non-profit organisations and associations must feel extremely humiliated when they hear that they are doing a deterrent. They should thus discourage people who are far from the labour market by having guidance for them. I do not think this is at all appropriate in the debate. It's great that wrist support will be available. But if you look, as the Minister says, at the tremendous pressure that exists in society today in our welfare sectors, in health care and in school, I do not think that extra money will help much. You have to find people who are supposed to be supervisors for those people who have been far from the labour market for a long time and who are fragile. I think that is exactly the concept we should use: it is people who are fragile, and they need the right guidance and support into their extra service. I really hope that the municipalities will be able to do this so that it will be really good. Social enterprises are very concerned. They don't know what's gonna happen. That is the picture that I have received and which Mrs Pethrus also mentioned. I read the last paragraph of the Minister's reply: in the light of the changes that are now taking place, I believe that work-inclusive social enterprises should be able to continue to play a very important role in giving those furthest away from the labour market a way back. ..................................................... February 1st is in a few days. The Minister estimates that they will be able to do so, but they need to be informed. They do a very big job and are often in some way linked to the coordination associations. That's also a question I have. How does the Minister see that the coordination associations, namely Finsam, could be further developed for this group? Where will they be now when the extra services come instead of the jobs that have existed so far? Much is about uncertainty. Suddenly, it became a ketchup effect. In the election movement, there was a very high tone in the terrible employment phase. Then it has taken a very long time, which I have respect for. Perhaps you had to think about how this was to be done in the Government Office. However, 2 000 people per month will now leave their posts and move to the additional posts. It's supposed to be for guidance. It is not possible to come to a school one day to work with the students without the wrist support being in place. I would like to know more from the Minister what this should look like in concrete terms, because the municipalities are not prepared. I'm on the council and I'm often out in my community. We are not prepared for this. It is not a question of malice, it is a question of not knowing what the conditions are. I also wonder about the support to be able to study at Komvux and universities. Does this mean that students in the benches next to each other will have completely different financial conditions? Most people study on loans.
i-8cd1939055f78574-121	Mr President, I would like to There is broad agreement on equipping and supporting those who are far removed from the labour market. I don't think we should argue about that. All people are needed. That's what we've been saying in the Alliance for eight years. The government now wants to remove the employment phase – fine! But then replace it with something that is reasonable and can become a reality! The Arbetsförmedlingen does not believe in this idea. More tools are being called for. At the same time, Sweden's municipalities and county councils warn that it will be difficult to obtain all these additional services. So we still do not know how the government is going to solve it. In addition, studies show that nine out of ten of those in phase 3 were wholly or partly satisfied with their location and employment. Many of them are now at risk of falling into passive unemployment, and that is what we are worried about. N is Ylva Johansson says that phase 3 was a final station that would act as a deterrent, it must only be an invention of Social Democratic election propaganda. It's rude to all those involved to say that way. Every government and every politician I think is passionate about getting people to work. We can try different methods. Sometimes it succeeds better, sometimes worse, but everyone is needed. And we need a lot of new jobs. What will happen to these people if they come into extra services? It's a year plus maybe another year you can go there. What happens next? Is it gonna be L.A.S.? Do they get any priority for new or other jobs, or are they going back to square one? Where are they going next? Where is the long-term nature of these decisions? If the government really sees the reality right now when Arbetsförmedlingen will have to take care of hundreds of thousands of new arrivals who have come to Sweden in recent years and who become Arbetsförmedlingen's responsibility with all that it means, should one at the same time impose on Arbetsförmedlingen a huge burden with new individual assessments of people who are in businesses that most are quite satisfied with? In fact, you will understand where reality or the enormous challenge you face with the workload that the Public Employment Service will have. The programme measures are doubled with government policy, up to 20 billion in a few years. So it's half a defence budget. What I am calling for is not just action either. What does the government do to ensure that there is real work, as the Minister writes in his answer? These people are gonna get real jobs. Let's think about what it is. What is the stimulus when you make it both harder and more expensive and raise taxes for those who will arrange these real jobs? Many of these people have many obstacles with them. They have long periods of unemployment, long sick leave and other things. These are fragile people. I believe that there will be a great deal of concern and difficult problems for a great many of them, and I therefore think that we should treat this whole complex problem with a great amount of respect. It is rude for the Minister to call what we have done a deterrent end-point. That was never our intention, and I do not believe that this government has that intention either. Now we have to succeed in the tasks we have taken on. M a there are many big words, and the path to results seems very long.
i-8cd1939055f78574-132	Mr President, I would like to This is an important discussion, for many of the people we are talking about are fragile people, as previous speakers, including Katarina Brännström, have said. They have been on sick leave or in unemployment for a long time, and they have a great need for community support. I would really like to react when the Minister for Labour says that we should park long-term illness in phase 3. How would we feel about parking people? That's exactly what we wanted to prevent. I have worked with the rehabilitation of long-term ills for over 20 years to try to get them back either to their regular job or another job. When you called Arbetsförmedlingen and asked if they could help you find another job because there was nothing that could be adapted in the current workplace, they said: You can quit the person first, and then we can help you. What we did then was to create a transition, a bridge, from Försäkringskassan to Arbetsförmedlingen, and if you couldn't find another adapted job you could get back to health insurance. Now the government is taking this away. F the rye is what's going to happen. My point is the same as many people have said: there is a great need for information both in terms of social enterprises and in terms of those who are in this business and who are waiting for answers on what will happen to them in the spring if they are unable to cope with this type of trainee service. We're going to need transitions. I would just like to comment on the answer to the RUT deduction and that the changes will not make any difference for the vast majority. If we look at Denmark, we see that the slightest change in the RUT deduction makes everyone stop and stop hiring. This is very negative, as they have received many who have been long-term ill and people who have also been long-term unemployed in RUT services.
i-8cd1939055f78574-138	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit touching to hear this concern for the unemployed and for people who have been on sick leave for many years – after eight years of politics where people have hunted sick and unemployed with blowtorch. Health insurance was reduced and nearly 80 000 people were insured. I am amazed at the fact that this is even being said. Katarina Brännström says that it is forcing the Public Employment Service to make individual assessments. What does she expect? Does she expect the Arbetsförmedlingen to make collective assessments of 40,000 people? Is it exactly the same for these 40 000? These are people who have been unemployed for longer or shorter periods. It is women and men, young and old, born in Sweden and born in other countries. Should we make collective assessments of them? That's amazing. As for Lotta Finstorp's answer, I say it again: I have not met anyone who longs for phase 3. The reason why we have entered phase 3 is that there has been no active labour market policy during the first period. You have not had the opportunity to study or be seen as an individual, but you have been parked in phase 3. That social companies are doing a great job, I have clear examples of, for example, Environmental Protection Centre rooms in Örebro. The important thing is the opportunity for people to get out to work. And yes, Lotta Finstorp, I also belong to the group that had standby jobs in the 1980s. I still have my job. I got a job. It is a good way to get into the labour market, so I welcome the kind of effort that can bring long-term unemployed people into work and not be parked in phase 3.
i-8cd1939055f78574-142	Mr President, I would like to I do not doubt the genuine commitment of my fellow debaters to the people who are in phase 3; I believe, of course, that it is genuine and real. Let us remember, however, the writing of history. When phase 3 was introduced by the then Labour Minister Sven-Sven-Otto Littorin, after a certain period of unemployment, one would end up in a measure where one could no longer have contact with Arbetsförmedlingen and had no access to any active interventions whatsoever. The theory behind this was that if we did so, people would sort of sharpen themselves before they reached phase 3 and thus get out to work. This was an incorrect theory, and it did not work. The minister who introduced this has also noted that it was completely unsuccessful. The reason people are unemployed is not because they are not getting their act together, but because they have not been helped to get back to work, or because there is no work. There, then, phase 3 grew avalanche, and then the bourgeois government eventually had to reconsider its idea and make certain efforts for those in phase 3. However, it was the underlying theory, and it is a theory this government does not share. I will try to answer the questions that have been asked. As far as RUT deductions are concerned, there is no need to worry, because from August onwards we are planning to extend them to more sectors than those already in force today. So I think there seems to be excessive concern about thinking that jobs will disappear. As far as the coordination associations are concerned, I see that they have a very important role to play. The coordination associations are very different and of different quality, to be honest with you. However, many of them do a very good job and can be important actors. A year ago, when I travelled around and held conferences with all of Sweden's municipal executives, mainly because of youth unemployment, the coordination associations were in general involved, precisely because they have an important role to play. This applies, in particular, to those who have a complex problem with perhaps a disease picture and other factors that cause them further difficulties in the labour market. I therefore consider the coordination associations to be very important. I want to make a correction. Phase 3 is not a service, but phase 3 is a position you are in without any salary. That's the way it is. It's not a job. What we now want to offer as many as possible is the possibility of employment and the opportunity to earn money, have a holiday and participate in the world of work just like everyone else. We also offer the opportunity to study. These are quite good opportunities now; everyone in phase 3 is given the right to study for a year while retaining compensation. You can study whatever you want. This will, of course, mean that people sitting in the same classroom have different economic conditions, and I see no problem whatsoever with that. Those who have the most difficulties in the labour market should also have more support than those who are light on the labour market. I think that is perfectly reasonable. Many who are currently in phase 3 have been away from the labour market for so long that the knowledge and experience they have may have lost in time. Then a good way to get back can be through education. I therefore believe that this will be of great importance. I also believe that work training, full-time and part-time studies and lack of vocational training within folk high schools will be important pieces of the puzzle. It will take many different efforts to ensure that the very many people in phase 3 today can look to the future with confidence.
i-8cd1939055f78574-150	Mr President, I would like to There is concern in civil society, and that is why I have specifically asked about it. Many of the non-profit organisations are doing an amazing job for people who are fragile and far removed from the labour market. What role will civil society play now that the employment phase is abolished? They also do a very good job when it comes to migration and second-hand shops, which we have talked about before, and so on. So it is a question I really need answers to, for their sake. Will the person with extra services be allowed to work, for example, hours in a regular job? So it's about getting hourly time– you might work somewhere, get hours and then you have an extra service basically. It should increase the chances of regular employment if that possibility exists. The Minister's answer shows that the participants in phase 3 should be offered a real job, and we have done so in the past as well. What's a real job? In this House there has been a lot of fuss about RUT services, such as that it would involve pool managers or what is usually said in here with a lot of wrinkle on the nose. I don't know if it's connected to RUT at all, but would it be a real job in that case? What's going on with the Funka investigation? The Alliance government had the Funka investigation started in 2011. Some of the proposals have become reforms, decisions and so on, but there is much left in it. I think there is a lot of good things to do from the Funka investigation with regard to the group of people we are talking about. My final question is: will the government's employment target be reached by 2020?
i-8cd1939055f78574-155	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Ylva Johansson for both the answers and the debate. This is a very important issue, and I think we will come back to it. It is clear that the government does not see the reality and is making naive hopes of its policy. We should not forget what it was like before phase 3, when the Swedish Government was ruled by Persson. At that time, most of these people were unemployed without any effort at all. They were on long-term sick leave, and they were retired early because of unemployment. Many were at home in idleness, hidden and forgotten. In fact, the best thing that has happened to many of these people was to enter phase 3. It was a new existence with routines and workmates, where they would actually look for a job in the meantime and get support of different kinds and from different directions. This is now being scrapped, indiscriminately. It's almost scary sometimes to hear at Ylva Johansson. In Ylva Johansson's world everything is so good when the new policy comes in and prevails. All the old stuff was bad, and all the new stuff is gonna be good. Allow me to doubt! There's so much talk about what's going to happen – all newcomers will have jobs within two years, the minister has promised, and all young people will be in jobs or studies within 90 days. The Minister has also promised this, although it seems that it is being scrapped. Now all phase 3 sites will be removed within two years. That's what the minister promised. I don't know who believes in this. SKL doesn't, and Arbetsförmedlingen doesn't. There will be further reports in which there are doubts about this whole package. It is not serious and reasonable to believe that in the tough world in which we live, things can be resolved in the way the government believes. I'm just saying good luck! In particular, in view of the people who are now to be snatched out of existence and not to be hit too hard.
i-8cd1939055f78574-159	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Moderates are unaccustomed to ambitious labour market policy objectives or individual response to the Arbetsförmedlingen, because it was a completely different policy that applied when the Moderates were responsible for labour market policy. The target that Fredrik Reinfeldt set for employment policy, that 5 million people would be in work by 2020, I expect this government to achieve during this term of office. So, yes, we have a much more ambitious labour market policy and targets for unemployment. I'll answer the questions. The non-profit organizations are doing a fantastic job. I do not see any risk of their ability to participate in labour market policy being reduced. On the contrary, as Lotta Finstorp mentions, it is not only the long-term unemployed in phase 3 but also new entrants, some of whom are newcomers, who are very far removed from the labour market. There, civil society and non-profit organisations will be able to play and are already playing a very important role. A real job is, of course, a job where you have a job and a salary. Phase 3 is not a real job, it is a placement where at best you get some kind of compensation. But it's not a job, and you don't get a salary. The additional services are at 75 per cent precisely so that it is possible for the individual to apply for a job or take other jobs, such as hours mentioned by Lotta Finstorp, so that one can gradually move on to work without a subsidy or with a different type of subsidy or lower subsidy rate than extra services. The purpose of the construction is precisely that there should be a space to apply for and take other jobs alongside the extra service, so that you can gradually move forward. I recently reported on the Funka investigation when we met with the disability movement in the Government Office. It is a long statement of what has happened to every proposal in the Funka investigation, too long for me to be able to account for this.
i-8cd1939055f78574-166	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me how I justify the changes to the RUT deduction and what the message is to those who are now risking their jobs with the changes. She has also asked me when we can expect a ready-made proposal based on the agreement that the RUT deduction should include more services. As I replied in several interpellation debates, the reasons behind the changes made by the government to the RUT deduction are that it should not contribute to increasing the gap between students and that it should be directed more towards ordinary households. It is important for the legitimacy of the tax system that fiscal policy is perceived as fair. The changes will not make any difference for the vast majority of those who currently deduct RUTs, and therefore they are deemed to have very limited effects on, for example, employment and entrepreneurship. As I answered a parliamentary question from Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng on 2 December last year, my ambition is that a bill on an extended RUT deduction can be submitted to Parliament in the spring change budget and enter into force on 1 August 2016.
i-8cd1939055f78574-169	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The RUT reform is a real success story. Today, 22 000 people work in the RUT sector. And seven out of ten Swedes want to keep or raise the ceiling for the RUT deduction. 83% are in favour of domestic services. So there has been a shift. When the reform started in 2007, fewer people felt that it was necessary to keep this reform on the labour market. It is good that the migration talks have provided additional services to RUT on 1 August. But the halving of the deduction will have negative consequences, as RUTs say. I recently attended a seminar where the biggest RUT companies told me that they notice that they now have fewer subscribers, such as those who get cleaning with regularity, perhaps every 14 days. I read something quite interesting on Almega's website. According to Almega, the industry has a turnover of SEK 200 million from the range of SEK 25 001 to SEK 50 000, and most customers exceeding the limit are in the range of SEK 25 001 to SEK 35 000. It is clear that if most customers are above SEK 25 000, it is not impossible for companies not to dare to hire more because they notice that a large part of the customer base will not buy services in the same way as before. Many of the RUT companies also talk about how many nationalities they employed. This is an excellent integration engine. It is impressive how many from other countries have been given the opportunity to get into work in this way. It is therefore worrying that the government has halved the deduction. It is the common man's service to take the help of a RUT company. I looked at what it looked like in the municipalities. It is not in the big cities that the number of RUT buyers increases. The municipalities at the top of the increase are Gällivare, Jokkmokk and Härjedalen. This is probably because the demography looks like it does in these municipalities. Many older people live here who want help with, for example, easier cleaning before they receive a home aid assessment.
i-8cd1939055f78574-178	Denmark had 60% deduction. When the number of RUTs was reduced to 50 per cent, RUTs scaled down and decreased the number of employees. There were not many new companies either. The signal value to both companies and those who intend to buy a service is negative when there are uncertain rules on the labour market and in this sector. In the election campaign, the RUT deduction was a punching bag. Many times it has been said in this House that it is a matter of cleaning pools of rich people in a rich Stockholm suburb. It's pathetic. I've never heard of anyone who has a pool cleaner. It is in rural areas and in domestic services that volumes grow. It is also important that we take this as a question of female entrepreneurship.
i-8cd1939055f78574-183	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp says that there has been a lot of discussion about pool cleaning in the Chamber. It is her party partner Helena Bouveng who has hung up on pool cleaning and RUT, so Lotta Finstorp should probably turn to her party partner on this issue. That would be relevant because it is Helena Bouveng who is stuck on this issue. Few people have RUT deductions of more than 25,000. If you have RUT deductions of more than 25 000 you probably earn quite a lot. Although there is growth in some municipalities, as described by Lotta Finstorp, there is the group that buys RUT services in well-known municipalities in Stockholm County such as Danderyd and Lidingö. High income earners buy these services to a large extent. The reason some choose to waive the RUT deduction may be that they want to do the job themselves. But some simply do not want to pay what it costs, even if they receive tax deductions. They'd rather buy black. The view of the people who do the work is that they are not worth more. It is regrettable and a human view that I do not share. When we talk about how to make the best use of the state budget, we can also think about what the most important thing we can do today is. Is it to invest in giving more RUT deductions for over 25 000 or to spend a little more money on elderly care? Many elderly people need care, not just housekeeping. I know my priorities.
i-8cd1939055f78574-187	Mr President, I would like to Getting more people to work is the government's overall goal and task. It is extremely important for us that all people who have the opportunity to work should be involved and contribute. If you have the opportunity to work, you should work. It applies to all people. That's why the government's policy is so focused on creating more jobs and bringing down unemployment. This is particularly important for groups with high unemployment, such as young people. Today, far too many young people are allowed to start their career by being unemployed month in and month out. As a result of the eight years in power of the alliance government, we had so high youth unemployment that for some areas in Sweden we received crisis support from the EU. Fortunately, the government has changed its policies, and we see unemployment among young people falling. The measures taken by the government to support young people in getting through high school or getting a first foot into the labour market are being expanded. We think it is important that everyone works. The change that the government makes when we halve the ceiling in RUT is a very small change. It will affect around 1% of those buying RUT services, and that group has an average income of 960,000 a year. It is not unreasonable to believe that people with that kind of income will continue to purchase RUT services even without deduction. So it is a very small change. At the same time, we are making an extension of the RUT that we hope will be able to implement after the summer. Then additional services will be covered by RUT. If Lotta Finstorp cares about RUT and thinks it is an important industry that should be able to continue to grow and develop, it is stupid to spread horror propaganda. If you are a responsible politician, you should have an appropriate tone in the information that you disseminate. Then the fear propaganda that many Moderates and also some trade associations are pursuing on this issue will be crazy. It makes people worried, and they can get the impression that it is a bigger change than it actually is. Lotta Finstorp has said in this House today that we are halving the deduction. That's not correct at all. We halve the roof, and it affects very little. It's something completely different from halving the deduction. It's pure horror propaganda. Lotta Finstorp also mentions older people as examples of people buying RUT services. However, for the group over 65 years of age, this change in the ceiling is not taking place. So it's pure horror propaganda. Lotta Finstorp takes up the example of Denmark. The changes made to the Danish RUT system cannot be compared to the changes we have made. For example, Denmark removed window cleaning, which represented 20% of the deduction. Furthermore, gardening was removed, which represented 25 percent of the deduction. It was also amended so that the reduction was only given to pensioners and reduced the maximum payment from DKK 10 000 to DKK 6 000 per year. Comparing it to the change we make is pure horror propaganda. If you care about this industry, you shouldn't be doing that, Lotta Finstorp.
i-8cd1939055f78574-199	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to see the high tone of the House as soon as we talk about employment and work. We just had an interpellation debate with the Minister for Labour, and she talked about a real job that was better than a wrong job. The RUT companies have noticed in their figures and annual accounts the uncertainty as to when the government will put its foot down in the RUT sector. They have noticed that people do not buy the services as much as before. They are also concerned that this former black sector, which has now become white, can return to black. Then the Minister of Finance loses revenue. It will be a very strange debate. Why is this issue so sensitive? We should share the view that all jobs are important and that we need all the jobs we can get in Sweden so that people come out to work. Especially now that we have many new residents in Sweden, we need all the jobs we can get, and the RUT sector has proven to be an incredibly good integration engine for those who are far from the labour market. It gets very strange and sensitive. I think it is about the fact that there is something shameful in the Social Democrats if you think it is good that people work in someone's home. That is not to be said, because then we will immediately enter the pig debate that was held in this House throughout the last parliamentary term. Let's not have it. Instead, think this way: Now we must try to get as many jobs as possible in Sweden in different sectors, with those people who may not have their education fully. Of course, we would like them to at least complete high school. There will come many who do not have sufficient language skills but who are great at doing chores in the home of people who need help. Is it shameful or ugly? I think it's gonna be really weird. I thought and hoped that this debate would be about fresh ideas about how we can get more people to work. One of these is RUT. I have questions for the Minister of Finance. How does the Minister of Finance look forward? Can we perhaps extend the RUT sector further? Or is it done now? Is it that a s it? It is clear that floating services, where there are RUT deductions from August, will provide a certain number of jobs. However, there is not a great expansion of RUT when you take in floating services, but it is precisely for domestic services in the home that we see a sharp increase. In Gällivare I think they increased by 600 percent between 2014 and 2015, from a very low level. Maybe that's what you should look at instead. The use of RUT services is very different in the country and depends a little on the possibilities to buy the services. We see that entrepreneurship among women has decreased since 2014. Many women have started RUT companies. What does the Minister of Finance say to them? It is a feminist government – we always hear that in this House. Is this not a woman's enterprise that we should be proud of and that we should move forward with and further develop?
i-8cd1939055f78574-208	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp puts words in my mouth and the Minister for Finance, which we have not said in this debate. It's amazing. Lotta Finstorp says it's a loud tone, but the headline of her interpellation is: Disturbing – I wonder who has a high tone in the debate. As far as horror propaganda is concerned, I know that Almega is an expert on it. Visita is also very good. There was a propaganda that if the contributions to employers to hire young people were removed, it would be a mistake for the whole restaurant business. Now we see how the restaurant after restaurant is opened even though they do not receive more funding for their profits but are allowed to hire young people, regardless of their age, for the same salary. As far as real jobs are concerned, the previous debate was about the fact that the Minister for Labour and I think it is more important for people to go out into real jobs – jobs where you get pay and holidays – in the name of being locked up in phase 3. It is perfectly understood that we think it is better to do so. When it comes to pool cleaning it is Lotta Finstorp's party partner who has a big hangup on it and thinks it is very important. When it comes to efforts for older people, I think people can do a lot of things. You can choose to subsidise care for the elderly and expand it, or you can choose to invest the money in a different way. However, I do not believe that just giving employers a contribution is a real policy. When it comes to a feminist policy, one cannot limit and believe that women can only be entrepreneurs in cleaning services. I think women know a lot more, and I know they exist. I know that there are female entrepreneurs in all kinds of industries. To say that they should only be in the cleaning business is to reduce women.
i-8cd1939055f78574-215	Mr President, I would like to Like Eva-Lena Jansson, I find it amazing that Lotta Finstorp chooses to put words in my mouth that I have never said. It is opinions and feelings that I have never had and that Lotta Finstorp reasonably does not know if I have had or not. What is sensitive is when the Moderates try to black out an entire industry and come up with horror propaganda where they say there will be great and revolutionary changes that it will not be. There's a risk of harming the industry. Here I think Lotta Finstorp and her moderate colleagues should take responsibility. When you try to spread that kind of horror propaganda, Lotta Finstorp, it risks destroying the RUT industry as an engine for integration. There's a risk. Lotta Finstorp has done so today, and her party friends have done so in the 15 interpellations they have made to me about this. They have also done so in other forums. Lotta Finstorp says that there is uncertainty in the industry because you did not know what the government would do. We were very clear in the election campaign about what we were going to do, namely change the ceiling, and that is exactly what we have done. We believe that this sector has good opportunities to continue to develop. There are around 20,000 people working in the industry today. We will increase the number of posts from the mid-year, and this means, of course, that there may be another part of the work there. However, this should be related to the fact that 160 000 people came to Sweden this year and 80 000 the year before. So it is 240 000 who have come to Sweden in recent years. To have such a focus on the RUT industry alone to solve this problem I think is to end up a little wrong. It is important to have a broad approach in that people who have come to Sweden should get to work. That's exactly what the government has. We work widely with different forms of intervention based on what support individuals need to enter the labour market.
i-8cd1939055f78574-222	Mr President, I would like to I would like to respond to Eva-Lena Jansson. She meant that Visita and Almega spread horror propaganda... not so good. When it comes to the RUT industry and that 65-plus still has the tax reduction that has existed in the past, I find it hard to believe that there are companies that have only 65-plus as their target group, but you often have a wide range, especially in the country where you have to take everything: you clean up businesses and homes, and you also have other services. There are very few people who only have 65-plus– maybe in Stockholm– but I find it very hard to believe. I would like to draw up estimates from CIs showing that RUT is cost neutral for 10 000 employees. Today, the industry has 22,000 employees, so what is the problem? My hope is that the government will go further and think wider so that we can gain even more services as a basis in the RUT sector. It is therefore cost neutral for 10 000 employees. The worst thing that can happen is that more people get jobs if it gets bigger. A new study carried out among RUT entrepreneurs by About Time AB shows that uncertainty about the RUT deduction is the main obstacle to expansion. You don't dare make new appointments because you don't know what's next. 2017 could be something else that should be turned down. I think the signalling system is very important, and I would like the Minister to take it with him.
i-8cd1939055f78574-226	Mr President, I would like to In the case of the elderly, it was Lotta Finstorp who raised some areas in Sweden where the RUT deduction increased sharply and referred to that it could be that older people wanted this. Then it was important to point out to Lotta Finstorp – if she believes that it is the elderly who have increased the number of RUT services in Härjedalen, Pajala and another place – that the elderly will not be affected by this change. I also don't think there are so many people in Pajala who hit the ceiling for the RUT deduction. It is perhaps more about places where there are many high-income people. During the 15 interpellation debates on the RUT deduction that I have had in this House, three of which have been specifically concerned with pool cleaning, it has become very clear what issues the Moderates think are important. Sometimes it feels good in politics, when you can recognize parties. Here you really recognize the old Moderates. Who are they fighting for? Yes, it is the percentage of RUT buyers who have an average income of SEK 960 000 a year – to continue to receive this tax discount even after they have bought for SEK 25 000 and SEK 50 000 for a family. That's what the Moderates think is important. And they think it's so important that that group should get pool cleaning as well that they write a whole three interpellations about this. It's important, and it's clear. I hope that many people are watching this debate and can see which issues the Moderates are prioritising. It is important, so that we know that the Moderates spend their gunpowder on those who earn over $15,000 a year on average. They're the ones to be protected.
