i-HpoiXefyF6xjeGEFCegXWD	Mr President, I would like to In this report, 2016/ 17:NU5, the committee deals with the government proposal on collective management of copyright and a motion brought about by this proposal. It is a united committee that supports this report, which may be useful to emphasise. The proposal and the report could also be described as a way of creating the conditions for what is sometimes called the Swedish music envy and the music creators that are part of this. It highlights the importance of jointly producing rules and a system for these people and businesses to be able to receive a fair remuneration and for the industry to continue to develop. This is an important industry that employs many people and is a contributing factor to Sweden's strong competitiveness. As late as 2015, according to current figures from the music industry, it was about revenue of over SEK 9 billion, which was an increase from the previous year by 1 billion. This increase represents a significant proportion of what is known as online business. The fact that this issue has been developed and pursued in the EU is largely about the Swedish Government being a driving force in the European Commission and in the work behind the bill. The committee proposes that the Riksdag adopt the Government's proposal on collective management of copyright. The proposed regulatory framework on which it is based concerns regulating the activities of collective management organisations and strengthening copyright in the Digital Single Market. A common regulatory framework creates a stronger foundation for the further development of Swedish creative and cultural industries. The present proposal proposes provisions allowing members of the organisations included here to freely choose their representatives. On this issue, the committee has pointed out that the government may come back to how this representation is to be distributed. Otherwise, the bill is welcome. There has been an in-depth and constructive discussion and debate with representatives from the industry on the way forward, which not least Swedish composers' international music agency, Stim, and Swedish artists' and musicians' association, Sami, have also presented to the committee. It is of great importance that this proposal can be implemented after the intentions that exist. However, we note the announcement by a united committee that the government needs to come back on this particular issue.
i-db94adc14a224b26-20	Mr President, I would like to Cultural and creative industries are extremely important for Sweden. They employ many people and mean quite large tax revenues to Sweden as well as export opportunities in such areas as film, music, computer games and a variety of other areas, although it is often music envy that is highlighted. What we have to decide on today is a part of intellectual property, which is indeed a basic bolt and a prerequisite for many of these important industries. Intellectual property law is strong in Sweden and works essentially very well and has done so for a very long time. If you ask authors, musicians and others, they also testify that trust in intellectual property is very important. You should be able to live off what you create and in different ways be able to commercialize it. This is a European directive at the bottom, which has been reviewed. It should be remembered, however, that the starting point for this has not been that we have had major problems in Sweden, but rather problems in other countries in Europe. In essence, we think that this is a good proposal that the government has come up with. On the other hand, there is a very niche issue about the right organisations' voices or representation, a very serious concern in the industry. The reaction from Stim and others was short and good that if something is not broken you should not fix it and risk questioning and perhaps also destroying the opportunities for these important and well-functioning Swedish rights organisations. That is why the Alliance presented a joint motion on this, and we are very pleased that we were finally able to reach agreement in committee. It is important to remove these concerns and instead build on the very well-functioning structure we have in terms of rights management in Sweden. We take this as a starting point on the basis of Parliament's decision and assume that the government will urgently ensure that it is resolved, because there is no reason to shoot that ball in front of it for too long.
i-db94adc14a224b26-26	Mr President, I would like to In order for Sweden to be able to cope with the pensions of the future, an active economic policy is needed that creates high employment and good growth. The Left Party believes that the AP funds should be used more actively in industrial policy than at present. AP funds should be managed on the basis of long-term socio-economic criteria, not on the basis of short-term return requirements such as today. It is not only high yields that we want to achieve, but also a world that is not destroyed by climate warming and where human rights are respected. One aspect of such a change would be, for example, to transform the First AP Fund into a fund for socially beneficial investments. The fund could then invest capital in environmental technology, housing, mining or infrastructure. In order for AP funds to be used in an active and strategic business policy, today's tight investment rules should also be changed. For example, the limit values for AP funds' ownership in Swedish limited liability companies should be increased. Furthermore, the ban on investing in unlisted securities should be reviewed as it prevents the funds from investing in smaller companies in, for example, environmental technology and medicine. A lot has happened around the AP funds in the past year. In the letter, the Government examines the funds' work on sustainability. We in the Left Party note that the return requirement on the funds is an urgent demand for investment, but that investments should be made with regard to the environment and respect for human rights. Instead, the Left Party believes that the investments of the funds should be guided by the following environmental and ethical guidelines: 中 Environmental and ethical considerations shall be equated with the objective of high returns. The AP Funds shall not invest in coal, oil or fossil gas. Within five years, the AP funds will phase out existing investments in the fossil fuel industry. The AP Funds shall have quantitative targets for investments in renewable energy. All AP funds shall account for calculated greenhouse gas emissions for their investments. The AP Funds shall not invest in companies that use tax havens to escape taxation from Sweden or other countries. Criticism has been directed against the AP funds not paying attention to human rights and that the AP funds have contributed to so-called land grabbing through their investments. One example is the First AP Fund's investments in the company Darby Darby, which was recognized after engaging in land grabbing in Liberia in 2013. Sime Darby signed an agreement with the Government of Liberia to rent more than 300 000 hectares of land in Liberia for 63 years to grow palm trees for the production of palm oil. The farmers in the areas concerned claim that they have been deprived of their land without first being informed. The First AP Fund currently still owns shares in Sime Darby. In Brazil, the Second AP Fund has been accused of land grabbing. This shows that there are several cases where our mutual pension funds have not been invested in a sustainable way. The government therefore needs to come back with proposals aimed at incorporating land-grabbing issues into the AP Funds' ethical guidelines. Last spring it was announced that the company Findus intends to close its production of frozen ready dishes and vegetables in Bjuv, and 450 people were given notice. This happened despite the fact that the factory is well-managed and profitable. It is the UK company Nomad Foods, which has owned Findus since 2015, which has decided to close production. It is not possible to interpret in any other way than to get rid of a competitor. The First AP Fund is part of the ownership structure of Nomad Foods through a large shareholding in the venture capital company Pershing Square Holdings. The Pension Fund, which says it works actively with corporate governance, describes its core values with the words professionalism, commitment and long-term sustainability. In its Annual Report for 2015, the First AP Fund writes: As a long-term investor, the focus on sustainable value creation is a natural part. Sustainable value creation permeates our entire management and includes all asset classes in our portfolio. ..................................................... Through its ownership in Pershing Square Holdings and thus Nomad Foods, the First AP Fund gives its silent consent to the closure of profitable and important production for Sweden, which is then moved abroad. This is directly at odds with the objective of long-term investment and sustainable commitment. AP funds should be actively used and take long-term ownership responsibility that violates the tight profit maximization that characterises individual participations. A strong Swedish business community requires an active and purposeful industrial policy. The funds of the AP Funds could be used to a greater extent than at present to create this type of enterprise policy. This presupposes, however, that through their ownership, the funds do not contribute to the closure of profitable companies and to the impoverishment of Swedish industry. It is clear that the rules on the participation of the AP funds need to be reviewed. The funds should not contribute to the closure and relocation of rogue, speculative companies' profitable and well-managed production abroad. Mr President, I would like to In March, the trade union ST's newspaper Public requested information from all six AP funds on the highest paid employees on the basis of the principle of public access. Most of them provided unidentified data on the highest wages. However, none of the AP funds provided all the information requested by the newspaper Public. The newspaper Publikt appealed against the decisions of the First AP Fund and the Third AP Fund and referred, among other things, to the fact that there have been numerous legal cases in recent years where journalists have been given the right to access such information. The two authorities then hired a law firm to respond to the newspaper's arguments and put forward reasons for confidentiality. The lawyers sent three letters to the Administrative Court of Appeal on behalf of the First AP Fund and an equal number, almost identical, on behalf of the Third AP Fund. For their work, the law firm invoiced the two authorities for SEK 192 750 and SEK 215 000, including VAT. Nevertheless, the AP funds failed to convince the Administrative Court of Appeal, and instead the newspaper published all the information the newspaper had requested. It is important that the AP funds uphold the principle of public access in Sweden and disclose documents to those who want to review the AP funds' work e. The responsibility for reviewing AP funds' investments lies with the Ethical Council, whose operations are financed and managed by the funds themselves. The Left Party believes that an independent council should be set up to keep an eye on whether the investment of the AP funds is made with regard to the environment and respect for human rights. The Government's letter also shows that AP funds' costs continue to increase significantly. This is despite the fact that the Committee on Finance has repeatedly pointed out the importance of reducing costs in the handling of previous years' letters. In 2015, management costs increased by as much as 9 per cent! What other activity could increase its costs by 9% without there being a crisis in the public debate? This year, at least, the Committee on Finance has tightened up its criticism of the increasing administrative costs, as they have averaged over 10% annually. Therefore, it is time for the AP funds to come to Parliament's Finance Committee to report how they intend to work to reduce their administrative costs and stop the increases. The letter shows that AP Funds paid variable remuneration to their employees. According to the Government's guidelines on terms and conditions of employment in the AP Funds, the funds may not pay variable remuneration to senior executives. However, it is allowed to pay bonuses to other employees. In the opinion of the Left Party, variable remuneration risks leading to speculation and increased risks in the management of the funds. For this reason, all types of variable remuneration in the AP funds should be prohibited. The time has come for policy to act decisively against the development of costs in the AP funds. It is not reasonable for costs to rise sharply year after year without addressing the problems. However, because of the undemocratic model one with the Pensions Group where six of the parliamentary parties are involved, the AP funds can wreak havoc freely without responsibilities. It is time to close down the Pension Group and bring the governance of the AP funds closer to the Riksdag so that new goals can be set. Having said that, I propose that the Government's letter on the activities of the AP Funds for 2015 be added to the file, and I request approval of the Left Party's reservation No 3.
i-db94adc14a224b26-47	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the report of the Committee on Finance on the activities of the AP Funds until 2015. For the sake of order, I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal contained in the Finance Committee's report No 6. Mr President, I would like to AP funds are of great importance for the Swedish pension system as a whole. AP funds are an important component in making people in the country feel confident that they will continue to receive their pension payments on the day they retire. Since the AP funds are supposed to act as buffer funds, this means in practice that when the pension contributions paid into the system are insufficient, the AP funds are allowed to raise funds. When the fees are higher than the payments, the money is passed into the AP funds. Over time, one may say that buffer funds generally work well and that the result against the income index shows a positive development. Comparing income indices and the development of buffer funds from 2001 onwards, the average income index has been 3 per cent annually, while the return on buffer funds has been 5.4 per cent annually. Last year, i.e. 2015, the result in money was more than SEK 65 billion. Of these SEK 65 billion, the funds helped to secure pension payments of just under SEK 20 billion. This in turn meant that the buffer funds' total capital increased by SEK 45 billion and that the total holding in the buffer funds after the 2015 financial statements landed at SEK 1,230 billion. It's almost so much money that you find it hard to understand how much it is. Mr President, I would like to Although the AP funds work well and have a positive development, there are things that need to be improved. I'm going to start with internal control. The issue is raised in the report. The committee's view on this is that internal audit should be introduced. This view is shared by the government, which believes that there are good reasons why the AP funds should introduce internal audit. Another issue highlighted by the committee is the evolution of the cost of the funds. The costs have increased by about 10 percent annually over the last four years. According to the committee, it is not sustainable for this trend to continue. This is why the committee assumes that the AP Funds will give immediate priority to improving the cost-effectiveness of management. The committee has also noted that the accounting of performance-based fees has changed. It is therefore of the utmost importance that the letter for the current year should come back with a clearer wording in this area. One might think that management costs are low in terms of percentage of the capital managed, but then one must look at the question from the point of view of the crown and the krona. It then turns out that the total cost of managing the funds in 2015 was almost SEK 2.2 billion. In a comparison between A ndra AP-fonden, which has the highest management cost and Fjärde AP-fonden, which has the lowest, it is a difference of approximately SEK 200 million per year. It is clear that for future pensioners and for confidence in the system not to be reduced, the trend in administrative costs needs to be reversed as a matter of urgency.
i-db94adc14a224b26-54	Mr President, I would like to I am not in this committee, but I am interested in this issue, because it is about a great deal of money and about the future of the citizens. I think that Håkan Svenneling mentioned several good things about the administration – that if we have this much money in our common possession, it is important that we take responsibility and ensure that they are steered in an environmentally friendly direction and that they do not lead to negative effects on either the environment, people or animals in third countries. It is important that we have it with us, and the report also deals with those things. I wanted to talk a little more about the part of the report dealing with the Seventh AP Fund, the PPM system. In good times we get a return, and everyone is content and happy. But with today's system in bad times, we lose all the money, and we make nothing out of it – they're gone. Here I would actually like to see us learn a little bit from the United States, especially California. The world's largest pension fund, Calpers, had problems in society. They didn't have enough energy. They had pension provisions and thought: Why not invest them in energy companies? But there was no energy company that could absorb so much capital to invest in renewables. At that time, pension funds were used actively to build renewable energy for themselves. What happened? Well, it not only solved parts of the energy crisis, it created jobs for the pension money and it created returns. Three problems were solved at the same time instead of sitting and keeping your fingers crossed and hoping that the stock exchange will yield some returns. Sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't. That is why I think we should learn from this. The interest in the PPM system among quite a few in Sweden is not huge – 34 per cent have chosen not to choose anything during all these years. Since the interest is not so great perhaps the purpose of the PPM system was to increase Swedes' interest in shares and hope that the companies will go well on the stock exchange. Maybe it was part of the strategy. But I think that even more Swedes have a hope of having a safe old age and a better environment for themselves and their grandchildren. Why not learn from the United States in this case? Why not use the money actively? We all want jobs, we all want renewable energy and good infrastructure, and we all want returns. Why not hit three birds with one stone? Then there is also something left if there are bad times. The wind farm's still there, the solar power plant's still there, the railroad's still there. Not everything is lost in bad times when stock market values are shrinking. I wish we could raise this next time we talk about the pension system, because it could really be a win-win-win solution. If all people have their pension money on the stock exchange, some win while others lose. The only thing that is certain is that fund managers take their commission every year. It's not my dream world.
i-db94adc14a224b26-61	Mr President, I would like to I was not really going to go up on this matter. We are relatively in agreement on this issue. I'm going to comment on a few things anyway. It is relatively common for various interests to be highlighted to use these large amounts of money. I think that we should sometimes remind ourselves of what the purpose of the AP funds is. We shall ask ourselves whether it is useful for the pension system and therefore for current and future pensioners or whether it is useful for political interests. When you listen to some representatives here you easily get the impression that it would be more interesting to use the money for political interests, and that is a bit the problem. We can all agree that AP Funds' investment rules are somewhat tight. You might need to look at it, and it is also a work that is going on. I think it would be interesting if they were given more space in terms of how they place the money. But what is important is that they invest in the interests of pensioners and not in political interests. I guess that's a bit of a stumbling block if you're going to move forward on that issue. Enough about that. I would also like to endorse what has been said here before that it is important to have control over the costs of managing the funds of the AP funds. Although I agree with that question, I intended to put it in perspective. It's like you have two different parts. Some are the direct internal and external management costs. But there is also a performance-based component. This part has been treated somewhat differently in this year's letter, and this means that costs of 28 million have been recognised, which according to previous accounting policies would have been 654 million. Taking this into account, it turns out that the total cost of this year's administration is 2 494 million, compared to last year when it was 2 602 million. This is therefore a reduction of 108 million overall. I still think this is a positive trend. I can then find it a little strange that the accounting principles should be changed so that comparisons cannot be made with previous years, but we can take this into account in a later debate. I would also like to mention briefly the Ethical Council. I attended the OECD meeting a few weeks ago, and we discussed the important issues of CSR there. In order to move forward with CSR, I think it is important that it sells to be both environmentally friendly and ethically correct. I think it is when consumers ask for responsible entrepreneurship that we have an impact. I do not believe that this can be steered politically from above, but it must come from below. I would therefore like to point out that it is not just about responsible business but that public administrations, such as pension funds, must also have a policy that goes in this direction. I took this up in the Ethical Council, and they knew it very well and thought that Sweden was a good example. The very business that has existed in the AP funds in Sweden is thus a model in a global perspective.
i-db94adc14a224b26-69	Mr President, I would like to I don't want to go into polemics; I think much of what Jörgen said made sense. I would just like to remind you of one small detail: if you can get a consumer-driven demand for what is better, that is of course the most effective. With regard to the management of the AP Fund, however, it is we in Parliament who represent the interests of consumers, and that is why I think it is reasonable for us to address these issues here.
i-db94adc14a224b26-70	Mr President, I would like to There is no contradiction, but we must, of course, draw up guidelines and develop policies. But we do have many examples in history where we have trampled wrong through political control: the Teko crisis, the shipbuilding crisis, the big industry and so on. I do not believe that politics can control people's behaviour, but it must come from below. Then guidelines and policies should of course be guiding – there is no contradiction there.
i-db94adc14a224b26-71	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I do not think it is a major issue of conflict. I agree that the state should not go in and direct private activities. There are activities that it is appropriate for the state to govern when competition does not benefit society and others where it is not appropriate. So this is not a major conflict; I just wanted to remind you that if environmental management of the AP funds' management is to be done at some point, it should happen from here. If we then set up the right boards, they can also continue to follow up our decisions in a good way.
i-db94adc14a224b26-72	Mr President, I would like to As I said, there is no contradiction, and I thank Carl Schlyter for his comments. I really believe that both managing AP funds and consumers are better than we politicians in deciding what is good environmental policy and what is not.
i-db94adc14a224b26-73	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The Scandinavian general welfare model as we know it is based on good income security when you are unemployed or on sick leave but also on welfare services such as education, health care and long-term care. In Sweden, we have chosen to organise the large, close welfare – care for the elderly, primary school, upper secondary education, care for the disabled, preschool, subsistence support – as a municipal responsibility. The welfare people come into contact with daily is the one that is conducted around our municipalities and county councils. Municipal sector revenues amounted to SEK 958 billion in 2015 and costs to SEK 917 billion. It is in paritet t with the entire state budget of approximately SEK 950 billion. This shows how important the local government sector is, in terms of both turnover and activity. The local government sector accounts for about one quarter of GDP, half of general government expenditure and one quarter of employment. The municipal sector's tax revenues well exceed the single largest tax revenue in the central government budget. Of the central government's total budget, approximately SEK 160 billion is general and targeted state grants to municipalities and county councils. As in recent years, the economic development of the local government sector as a whole has also been good in 2015. Municipalities and county councils are positively affected both by international growth and by the growth of the tax base. At the same time, we note that the local government sector as a whole is facing major future challenges. According to Sweden's Municipalities and County Council's latest financial report, costs in the local government sector are estimated to increase by SEK 47 billion more than revenues by 2020. This corresponds to a tax increase in Sweden's municipalities and county councils of approximately SEK 2 and 10 öre. SKL's report Welfare's long-term funding from 2010 says: ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to In this light, one can rightly agree with the committee's assessment that the SEK 10 billion that the Riksdag decided to contribute to the general state grants in autumn 2015 is a very important addition to the local government sector. It is important to monitor the development of the sustainability of public finances and the development of the municipal sector. But we must also ensure that policies are implemented that enable municipalities and county councils to carry out their mission, that is to say, to create a well-being close to the people, which is distributed according to needs. The state grants to municipalities and county councils are a large and important addition to Berit's care for the elderly and to be able to feel safe in the autumn and for Pelle and Lisa to be able to cope with the school. It is possible that there are some who lift a finger of warning and believe that increased state grants create expectations for municipalities and county councils that the state should be there in difficult situations. I think those motives are both obscure and small ideological. Those of us who have a background in the municipal sector, who have been sitting there and constantly grappled with increased home care hours in elderly care and moving in and more children in school and preschool, who have had to turn over every crown and work with efficiency improvements and in the worst case savings, we know that you can never lean against others. In this case, practical experience and craftsmanship provide better guidance than theoretical models and ideological principles. Mr President, I would like to In a world that is constantly changing, I am convinced that strong and equal well-being plays a role in ensuring that we as human beings develop and dare to face the only thing we know with certainty: that tomorrow is completely different from yesterday. Therefore, the well-being of municipalities and county councils becomes so extremely important – it affects people's everyday lives both directly and concretely. It creates security in old age, provides opportunities for life in youth and increases people's freedom and conditions for a rich and meaningful life. That is why the question of state subsidies to municipal welfare becomes so important and larger than just one item in the state budget.
i-db94adc14a224b26-85	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is gratifying that the local government sector has gone well overall in 2015, although there are some things to worry about. To a large extent, the good results are due to increased government grants and revenue of a one-off nature, such as the reimbursement of premiums from Afa Insurance, although municipal tax revenues have also increased. At the same time, costs are increasing alarmingly, mainly within county councils. The landing is generally weak. Their overall performance is well below the normal objective of what is considered a good economic economy. It is a warning bell, as well as the large spread in how it results between individual municipalities and county councils. Given the challenges we face, both in the short term with the integration challenge and in the longer term with population development, it is important to really monitor the progress of the municipalities and county councils. That the letter, in addition to the development of the results, assets and liabilities of municipalities and county councils, reports how specifically the targeted state grants have changed and what that means, is good. In contrast to general state subsidies and tax revenues, targeted state subsidies may be problematic. For example, they may require such large administrative resources to seek that some municipalities may not be able to seek them, or they may hinder long-term planning and the efficiency of their activities. Other criticism of targeted government contributions is that they shift focus from the whole and that they risk causing uncertainty in governance if they are not coordinated with other activities. At the same time, however, there may be benefits from targeted government grants, for example when they support development efforts to meet future challenges. Municipalities and county councils are now more dependent on state grants than before. It is not an unexpected development, but in a country with such pronounced municipal autonomy as Sweden it would be a matter to discuss if a development is not preferable where the municipalities are more likely to manage themselves. Autumn 2015 was eventful, especially with the large number of refugees who came to Sweden. This will characterise our society for many years to come, not least in municipalities and county councils. Of course, the fact that several municipalities have to lie out with large amounts of money because state authorities do not pay when the municipalities were in charge when it was needed is not acceptable and something I assume the government will take care of. Regarding the additional amending budget of autumn 2015, it may be worth mentioning in this context that it was also exceptionally managed: despite requests, the Government Office held a longer period of time to detail the basis for the distribution of the appropriations to the municipalities. Unfortunately, it is one of several examples where the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government has chosen to reduce transparency and transparency in the Swedish social debate. There is an awareness in the municipalities and county councils of future challenges, and they are working to develop their operations and to use new technologies. With the help of digitalisation and automation, there are good conditions to both increase quality and keep costs down. It is a work that we must make available from our national perspective with the right conditions and active participation when necessary. At the same time, it is important to focus on addressing the short-term challenges of integrating those who have come to Sweden in recent years. The price will be high if we fail to integrate them into the labour market. Starting foreign born work, they help to meet the challenges associated with population development. Unless the burden of livelihood becomes even heavier for those who then work. 2015 is characterised by the fact that the national year was the ninth consecutive year with an alliance budget. The Alliance's work line with a clear focus on increasing both labour supply and demand with, among other things, clearly reduced taxes on labour produced positive results. Overall, it can be said that the local government sector has generally had positive developments in recent years, but that there are a lot of clouds of concern in the future – in the longer term due to population development and pension debt, in the shorter term because of fears that we cannot manage the integration of foreign born into the labour market in a better way than we have historically done. In addition, as I see it, there is a risk that the policies of the Social Democrats and the Green Party will have too much impact, which can contribute to even higher sickness costs, fewer jobs and thus less resources for municipalities and county councils for their important welfare activities.
i-db94adc14a224b26-95	Your President! Municipalities' finances have improved in 2015 than in 2014. This has happened in a situation when Sweden's refugee reception has been very large and many municipalities in Sweden have taken a big responsibility. The fact that the finances of the municipalities are still strong is partly based on the resources that the government, together with the Left Party, saw need for. With the support of the bourgeois parties, 10 billion were allocated to welfare at the end of 2015. It was also resources that could be used in early 2016. The fact that the spring budget already signalled that 10 billion will be allocated to general state grants from 2017 onwards has created long-term planning conditions for municipalities. That's 10 very important billion to the welfare. That's 10 left billions. For it was the Left Party that on 23 February at DN Debate, in an article by Ulla Andersson, demanded 10 billion to the welfare of municipalities and county councils. At the time, this proposal was not in the government's mind, nor was it an initiative that existed at the negotiating table when the government met the Left Party. That is why the Left Party is a responsible opposition party, which cooperates and makes a difference. For the Left, it is not possible to support a budget without spending on welfare and investment in the future. That is why it is far from self-evident that we manage to reach agreement in the negotiating room when we meet the government. It is all about how much of the redistribution policy and welfare efforts we manage to push forward. We are simply making welfare in Sweden better. With 10 new billion to municipalities and county councils, you can hire more people in health care and care. You can improve the quality of everyone who makes use of welfare services, improve the working environment for those who work in welfare and increase the ability of welfare to cope with the pressures of a rapidly increasing population. More employees are A and O for quality improvements. A major problem today is that many educated teachers and social security secretaries leave their jobs because they do not feel able to do a good job with today's working conditions. With more employees, working conditions will improve. In this way, we can stop the flight from the professions and turn the tide so that those who left will begin to return to the professions they once chose to train. In order to solve the enormous recruitment needs of welfare in the coming decades, we need to raise the wages of certain groups, such as nurses. But pay is not the only factor that determines whether you are happy at work. At least as important is the opportunity to feel proud of their work. And the one who hooks under an unreasonable workload rarely goes home from work filled with professional pride. The government of Reinfeldt drained the welfare of resources. 140 billion in tax cuts must of course be financed in some way. Under the bourgeois government, support for municipalities and county councils was eroded. Between 2007 and 2014, general government subsidies, adjusted for regulations between tax bases and general grants, decreased by half a billion in constant prices. This happened at the same time as the population grew very strongly. This trend compares with the previous period, 2000 – 2007, when general government grants at constant prices increased by nearly SEK 17 billion. Mr President, I would like to However, it must be stated that the situation of county councils and regions in general is more problematic than that of municipalities. Twelve of the county councils, i.e. 60 percent, reported positive results, which was less than 2014. There are larger increases in costs, and several county councils have problems with making the budget go together. It is important that we, as Members of Parliament, see this, because it risks leading to reduced health care and, above all, reduced access to health care. In several county councils this is beginning to appear. In Västernorrland the discussions are about Sollefteås hospital. Ådalen has risen again to demonstrate against closures and reductions. In Kalix yesterday 1 000 people demonstrated against planned withdrawals within the county council. In Dorotea a group occupied the infirmary when the county council in Västerbotten wanted to impair service. For three years and three months, the infirmary in Dorotea was occupied. But eventually the protesters got what they wanted. It was just like it was before the county council cutbacks. This shows that in rural Sweden you often need to fight harder just to keep the service and welfare services you have from municipalities and county councils. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-db94adc14a224b26-105	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling does not seem to be so aware of how the development of tax revenue really was during the alliance government. In fact, tax revenues increased every year for municipalities and county councils. Thus, prosperity gained more resources each year during the Alliance's time, despite both financial crisis and recession. In addition, it is with great surprise that I note that Håkan Svenneling allows the Left Party to take credit for the welfare that goes well. You can see on left-wing municipalities, where the Left Party is often involved, not least the flagships Malmö and Gothenburg. It cannot be said that welfare is going very well there. The results of schools are among the worse in Sweden. You can look at health centres and medical care. In Skåne, customer satisfaction has been measured, and 17 of the 20 health centres with which patients are most satisfied are even private. It is incredibly unrealistic to argue that the Left Party is responsible for more resources for welfare and that welfare would develop in a better way when the Left Party is in control.
i-db94adc14a224b26-108	Mr President, I would like to I think Anette Åkesson is a little confused with tax revenue and general state subsidies. What I am pointing out is that the state has taken less responsibility for the finances of municipalities and county councils. It is quite clear that this was done during the time of the bourgeois government. The first thing that was done in the first budget presented was to reduce the general list of state subsidies. In the past, there was a general list where state subsidies were increased each year. But with moderate politics it became the same money as last year, next year and next year. This made it a slow erosion of the resources the municipalities had. Then there was a positive development in Sweden that made it possible to increase tax revenues, which meant that many municipalities sometimes still had a decent economy, but it was also many difficult years when the financial crisis hit. I don't think any left-wing party thinks welfare is good. I think that we throughout the country, regardless of whether we sit in municipalities, county councils, regions or parliament, point out the shortcomings that exist in welfare and talk about how they need to be addressed. There are very different views between the right and left on how to do it. That debate will come in full force in November when we begin to discuss the investigation into the profits that private companies make in their welfare. There are some bourgeois parties who say in their shadow budgets that they spend more money in general state grants to municipalities and county councils. I understand they need to do it. After all, they must also add money to the private gains in welfare. Then it is clear that we need to spend a few billion on the investments we are making. But if we are to use welfare resources effectively, we cannot send money to tax havens. Then we must ensure that every crown of prosperity goes to what it is intended for. The money needs to go to school, care for the elderly, the care centre, and the hospital. Then we will have a well-being that can be trusted. And then we will have a better society, where everyone gets the care they need.
i-db94adc14a224b26-111	Mr President, I would like to When Håkan Svenneling tells us that there was a positive development for the municipalities, it sounds like it came of itself. But, in fact, there were clear reforms behind it. Job tax deductions were basically a huge transfer of government money to the municipalities and county councils. So it helped create the conditions for more jobs. We adjusted various RUT and ROT reforms. We've had a health insurance reform. It was a big package that helped create more jobs despite recession. These jobs contributed to increased resources and tax revenues for municipalities and county councils. What Håkan Svenneling claims is simply wrong.
i-db94adc14a224b26-112	Mr President, I would like to I note that I do not really share Anette Åkesson's description of the world situation and how the finances of the municipalities have developed. I guess it's not that unexpected. That is the purpose of the House we have in Parliament: we should not agree, but we should discuss the political differences that exist. I think it is very important that we Members of Parliament see the needs that exist. Both Anette Åkesson and I highlight the county councils and the vulnerable economy they have. I think it will be better if we do not privatise hospitals, if we make sure that we reduce profit in welfare, if we make sure we do things good and effective and if we do not waste money on tax havens. I believe that we need to see the shortcomings that exist and that we need to ensure that there are good general state subsidies. I think it was interesting to hear Anette Åkesson's reasoning on general state grants and targeted state grants. I think you could use both. But I think it is a good thing that the general state grant is always a good basis for delivering good welfare. Then targeted government contributions can be the tip when we v ll make welfare a little better, meet the new challenges and be a little forward-looking. I therefore believe that the policy negotiated by the Left Party with the government is very good. I believe that this is often crucial in the budget debates that will be held in the autumn in many municipalities and county councils. That's where you discuss what you're going to do next year. How should you use the money you have received for your county council and municipality? I believe that bourgeois politicians will often find it difficult to explain that they did not receive any money when the bourgeois government ruled. But now you see the difference. Now you get 10 welfare billions that you can use to improve the business you are responsible for.
i-db94adc14a224b26-115	Mr President, I would like to We are here debating another proposal which originates in the European Union. In such matters, one can discuss in principle whether the EU should impose its laws on Sweden. And one can argue on the substance: What is the proposal's content? This went through in the EU in 2013. That was before we sat in the European Parliament. Since then, however, we in the European Parliament have consistently voted against similar proposals. We are opposed to the EU interfering in Sweden's procedural rights and how we handle our processes here in Sweden. We do not think that Europe should interfere in this at all. We prefer the Swedish system to the systems that exist in the rest of Europe or the system that the EU wants to impose on us. For this reason, I would like first of all to call for a rejection of the proposal. If my motion for rejection of the bill does not go through, I would ask for our motion to be approved. In substance, it can be argued that: The government writes that it is difficult to imagine a situation in which a private defender who meets the requirements of a public defender would have criminal relations with a suspect. We do not think it is particularly difficult to imagine it. Specially organised crime should or will at least have a great opportunity to use lawyers who meet the requirements but are still in the business. I do not have a concrete proposal on how to remedy this, given the risk of legal certainty for a suspect. But I think the fear is being dismissed too lightly. This should be followed closely. The bill also consistently proposes that the possibility of limiting contact with defenders in different ways should be narrowed down. The proposal is that the investigation should be substantially made more difficult, unlike the current regulation, which states that a restriction can be made if otherwise the investigation involves harm. We believe that the current regulation is a better order. Moreover, this system seems to be a good thing to everyone in this House. Otherwise, someone in this House would have suggested that we make a change at some point. The only reason we are making this change now is: the European Union. I don't think that's a reason that weighs heavily enough. We want – as everyone knows – to leave the European Union, not least because the EU is increasingly interfering in more and more areas. We can see this in the Committee on Justice almost every week. We therefore do not consider it necessary to amend this letter simply because the European Union wants it to. The bill also states that the law is written so that the inmates may not use any communication equipment. However, we agree there with what the Correctional Service states that this should be clearer. There should be no doubt that communication may take place only with equipment provided or approved by the Prison Service. In this case, we see no reason not to be clear. Last but not least, it should be investigated how consignments to and from a lawyer can be controlled. The intention is to prevent unauthorised objects from being taken in or out by the defender of the person in custody. It is a rather naive order to let this be completely unrestricted. Of course, confidentiality between the parties must be maintained, but consideration should be given to how a better order could be created.
i-db94adc14a224b26-124	Mr President, I would like to The proposal in this report gives a suspect who is detained and represented by a public defender – or by a private defender who meets the corresponding requirements – an unrestricted right to meet and talk in private with his defender. The same shall apply to other contacts such as telephone calls or letters between the prisoner and his/her defender. For detainees represented by a private defender who does not meet the requirements of a public defender, these rights may exceptionally be limited. It also introduces a rule whereby a child who has been detained shall have the right to be informed immediately of the reasons for detention. As we have heard, the report contains a reservation and a request for rejection from the Kent Ekeroth of the Swedish Democrats. What, then, do we say in the majority about the views expressed in the motion? Mr President, I would like to The government's proposal means that a suspect who is detained and represented by a public defender is given an unrestricted right to meet and talk with the defender in private and to contact the defender. This also means that the lawyer may be present at interrogations and other investigative measures. The Government's proposal means that the same rules that apply to public defenders who are lawyers should also apply to private defenders who meet the requirements of public defenders. According to the Government's proposal, it should still be possible, in exceptional cases, to restrict these rights of a suspect represented by a private defender who does not meet the requirements of a public defender. Motionists argue that the government's proposal reduces the possibility of restricting the contact of a prisoner with a private defender and risks favouring organised crime. I note that, according to the recitals, the Directive does not intend to affect procedures intended for situations where there are objective and factual circumstances giving rise to a suspicion that the lawyer cooperates with the suspect or accused person in criminal proceedings. Criminal activities by a lawyer should not be considered as legitimate assistance to suspects or accused persons within the framework of the Defenders Directive. The motionaries further argue that the Government's proposal should be amended so that there is no doubt that communication between the detained and his/her defender should only be allowed if it is carried out with the equipment provided or approved by the Prison Service. I note that electronic communication between an inmate and another person may take place to the extent appropriate. The concept of "appropriate" means practical conditions for communication, for example, taking into account the institution's procedures and access to equipment. As the Government points out, such a regime is also compatible with the Directive, which states in the preamble that Member States may decide on the practical measures relating to length, frequency and means of contact. Against this background, there is no reason to make such a clarification as the motionaries ask. Finally, a consignment between an inmate and his or her public defender may not be refused or examined. Restrictions may, as proposed by the Government, be imposed only in relation to a suspect or accused person represented by a private defender who does not meet the requirements of a public defender. In this part, I do not make any assessment other than the government and see no reason to investigate whether consignments between a prisoner in custody and his or her defender should be checked. In conclusion, I believe that the government's legislative proposals are appropriate. It strengthens the procedural rights of the suspect and accused person in criminal proceedings. However, it does not affect procedures intended for situations where there are objective and factual circumstances giving rise to a suspicion that the lawyer is associated with the suspect or accused person. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-db94adc14a224b26-140	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who thinks it is urgent to combat crime, today and in the future, must realise that crime is becoming increasingly international. This is happening not least within the European Union. To be able to work against crime therefore requires cross-border cooperation. For this to work, trust is needed between the different judicial systems that will cooperate. It is about the approximation of legislation and the removal of barriers, but above all it is about having confidence in each other's judicial systems. This is particularly true in order to be able to hand over a suspect to another country. I am convinced that this will become increasingly relevant, not least because crime is increasingly moving online. In order to do this, confidence in procedural rights between the different countries is also required. That is why we are now taking another step towards moving Europe closer to Swedish law than the other way round. The background to the proposal now on the table is the so-called Stockholm Programme. During the Swedish Presidency of the EU in 2009, that programme was adopted, which means moving forward step by step in order to strengthen minimum rules. The first step was translation and interpretation. It may well be considered highly justified that the person addressed or suspected of a crime can actually understand what is being said. The second step was the right to information – to actually know what you are suspected of. We are now at the third stage, which is also a minimum rule: that there must be a possibility of legal advice and legal aid for those suspected of a crime. There we are today, and I see the usefulness of this. I see two reasons why it also helps those living in Sweden and Swedish citizens. Firstly, this is a prerequisite for us to be better able to fight crime. This is a prerequisite for us to be able to trust each other's judicial systems. Secondly, it is to the benefit of Swedes that there are a certain number of minimum rules for those addressed – even for Swedes who are addressed in another country of the European Union. For the Swedish part, this does not mean any major changes in our legislation. Most of it was already in place. But for many other European countries, this means significant changes. This is therefore a step towards moving Europe closer to Sweden, rather than the opposite. The previous speaker has well explained in detail what the proposal means: the right to speak with his lawyer in private, the possibility of contact in order to get these talks started and, of course, that the parents of children in custody must know what their children are suspected of. We would have reacted if we had seen signs that our judicial system would be in danger or that organised crime – as has been suggested – would be taking over. But we see no reason for this. There are two proposals: to move forward with the Stockholm Programme, which we see as a prerequisite for continuing to fight international crime while strengthening procedural rights, or to say no to this. We do not see the signs of danger that have been erected today. It is, of course, always important to follow developments, and we all will. But to present a proposal on the part of the Swedish Democrats that basically means that you want but still do not have solves no problems. The proposal in the reservation is that you want it in a different way. But there are no concrete proposals, and then there are not many more alternatives. Today, we see that we have taken another step closer to the realisation of the Stockholm Programme and that Swedish law is increasingly approaching Europe.
i-db94adc14a224b26-152	Mr President, I would like to I will not prolong the debate unnecessarily. But I reacted to Krister Hammarbergh saying that it takes cooperation in Europe to fight crime. It is a common tactic of the other seven parties, because they are all more or less Europeans, to claim that the supranational European Union is the only way of cooperating. If I remember correctly, Krister Hammarbergh was at the same committee meeting as I did a few years ago, when we visited Europol and Eurojust, among other things, which are European Union agencies for cooperation between countries. In cooperation with Europol and Eurojust, non-EU countries are associated, including Norway and the USA. I remember asking the question to those who work down there how this cooperation works when they are not in the EU – they are in the same corridors. They said the cooperation works exemplaryly. This, if anything, shows that we can work together without the need for a supranational Union that tells us what to do, when to do it and how to do it. It's quite obvious. If one claims that we cannot have cooperation without the EU, what did Sweden do before 1995? Didn't we have any collaborations? What are all the other countries in the wider world that are not part of the EU doing? How are they doing? The premise that we would be isolated poor people somewhere without the amazing supranational European Union is false. Many non-EU countries are already proving that there are many ways of cooperating. It is quite obvious that Sweden could do the same.
i-db94adc14a224b26-157	Mr President, I would like to I note that Kent Ekeroth has changed the subject and left the subject of today's debate, namely the proposal whereby we take a step further for the Stockholm Programme, and start discussing Europol. Europol is a cooperation organisation within the EU that is very important, and obviously we share that view. At the same time, Kenth Ekeroth claims that there is no problem, that we do not need to have these partner organisations. May I remind Kent Ekeroth of Julian Assange and the tours surrounding the European arrest warrant and the possibility of having a person suspected of crimes that have left the country actually face the Swedish judicial system. This is part of the cooperation. It's just one of many cases. There are many more serious cases. I recommend Kent Ekeroth to visit the police, because they often tell us about the difficulties that exist, not least regarding the new type of crime on the Internet. It is easier to meet it within the European Union, because we have begun to approach each other and have specific cooperation. However, there are many instances of enormous difficulties, not least with regard to contacts with the US judicial system. It takes a long time to investigate the cases. Crime is now moving online, so we need more cooperation, not less.
i-db94adc14a224b26-161	Mr President, I would like to Krister Hammarbergh resents the fact that I am starting to talk about European politics. But it was actually Krister Hammarbergh who began his speech by saying that cooperation is needed to work, that we are approaching Europe and that it is happening in several areas. I just raised that ball, because I object a little to the description that is often painted by those who love Europe, that we would not make it without Europe. There are some advantages to the EU, but there are also extremely many disadvantages, including supranationality and that we must constantly bow to their demands. It is not only in criminal policy, it is in all areas. Now a large country in the EU has also seen the shortcomings of the European Union in the form of Brexit. We are not alone in either Sweden or Europe in criticising this supranational project. My point is that when you paint the EU as the only way to face organised crime or other crime, you end up inexorably wrong. We can also do so outside the EU, as European countries prove on a daily basis. Then we can pick the raisins out of the cake, and that's what we want to do.
i-db94adc14a224b26-165	Mr President, I would like to It is important to combat international crime, and this is a way forward. Now we are picking the raisins out of the cake, because the EU is approaching Swedish legal principles rather than the opposite. No, Europe is not the only way; there are many other ways. We also need to cooperate more internationally. We must be able to distinguish in this debate what is bad from what is good. But why should we say no to what is good because we are so opposed to the European Union in all its parts? This is the raisins in the cake, Kent Ekeroth. It is a way of getting closer together so that we have a real opportunity to combat organised crime. That is why it is very difficult for me to understand why you are constantly opposed to any possibility of moving forward in the fight against crime only the words of the European Union are mentioned.
i-db94adc14a224b26-168	Mr President, I would like to Today's case is about strengthening the legal certainty in the European Union of those who are prosecuted and detained because of suspected crimes. This is important in order for us in Sweden to improve our already good rules for legal certainty. But above all, it is important to raise the rest of the EU to a good, high standard. For the Swedish part, it is about clarifying the right of a prisoner to have a meeting and communication with his public or private defender, as well as the right to have a close relative, usually a parent or other guardian, informed when a child is detained. This is incredibly important, not least from a child's perspective. Imagine yourself not knowing as a parent why your child does not come home this very evening and then long afterward find out that it was because the child in question was in custody! Here we improve the Swedish rules. But above all, we are raising standards in Europe, and it is also important for Swedish citizens who may be affected by this abroad. Just as Krister Hammarbergh was at work, trust in each other's judicial systems is central to our having international cooperation. We need a high common minimum level within the European Union. Then to the fears, as the Swedish Democrats point out, that this would benefit organised crime. I think it is exactly the opposite, because when we raise the standard of legal certainty within the European Union, cooperation opportunities and confidence are increasing in getting to grips with cross-border organised crime. In addition, we already have rules in place that do not change in terms of concrete criminal acts and association between suspects and defenders. I suspect that, as far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, they are against the European Union and therefore against it. They have no concrete alternative. They are against but want something that is almost the same, which they cannot describe. It does not make me want to have a debate on the whole of the European Union, which was almost there, but to want to remind you that the European Union is not them, but we are. In fact, in this specific case, Sweden has initiated the process of establishing minimum rules for the right to a public defender and contact with it. This is a success for Sweden in European cooperation. It shows how we can use the EU in a good and constructive way, not least to combat crime. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
i-db94adc14a224b26-175	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if people don't listen or don't want to listen. When they say that we do not really know what we want, they refer to the first thing I said: that the government writes that it is difficult to imagine a situation where a private defender would have criminal relations with a suspect. On this passage I said that one should not be so naive and that it is not difficult to imagine but that we do not know what to do about it without compromising the legal certainty of a suspect. That's the part we didn't really know how to fix. But we warn and say that one should not be naive, because it will be worse and worse in this country in the years to come. Then you should not think that everything is good and calm and that it can never happen, as the government writes. That's the part we say we don't really know how to fix it. That the risk is dismissed too lightly and should be followed closely was what I wrote and said, so don't think of anything else. As for the other aspects of our exercise, we know exactly what we want. We want things to be the way they are now. Instead of being substantially more difficult, it must be detrimental to the investigation. If you describe it as not knowing what we want, you have not read our exercise or listened to what I said. It's as simple as that.
i-db94adc14a224b26-179	Mr President, I would like to Kent Ekeroth says it's going to get worse in the future. It is a prophecy on which one can question what it is based. It is clear that social development can go in different directions, but it depends a little on what one has the idea of what is better and worse. If we think it is worse that we get more cooperation in order to combat organised crime across borders within Europe, then we can say that the implementation of the EU's defence directives makes the future look worse. But if we assume that most people agree that we need to be better at working together against serious organised crime and fighting, not least cross-border crime, then I say that this implementation leads to a better future. It is clear from the point of view that criminal relations between suspects and defenders are not sanctioned. This is true in today's legislation, and it does not change with the legislation before us either. I put the question back to Kent Ekeroth. As far as your concerns are concerned, there are no better guarantees in today's legislation than in this proposal, so I do not understand why you are opposed to these reinforcements of procedural rights. Why are you against informing guardians of the reasons why their children are being detained? That's what you mean if you want to reject the bill.
i-db94adc14a224b26-185	Mr President, I would like to Such interpretations always make our opponents, that we are against it just because we want to reject the bill. I said that's the principle we're against. If it was so important to strengthen these rights, why hasn't anyone in the Swedish Parliament ever put forward such a proposal? The Alliance doesn't, and obviously neither do you. It was when the EU said it as it came. Sometimes the EU imposes better things on Sweden, even if it could have come up with a little common sense. So it's not going to last. I was asked what my fear that things are going to get worse is based on. Again, in common sense. We have been right about virtually all the issues we have been pushing for an extremely long time. These are immigration policy, EU policy, energy policy and criminal policy. Now they've all started following John, that is, SD. Sweden is in free fall. We have problems with gang dealings, with increasing violence, with the police going on their knees and with one and the other. The situation will get worse before it gets better. We base that on common sense. Try it sometime!
i-db94adc14a224b26-189	Mr President, I would like to I prefer to base my policy on knowledge, statistics and science rather than on that common sense that can mean a little anything in the world of Sweden Democrats. For example, it can mean that you are against things that are good and that Sweden has pushed through within the European Union just because Sweden has not pushed it through before. You can always wish that things had happened before and that we had thought about these things before, but now we have thought about them. We have even thought so far that we think it is good if the whole of the European Union raises its level in order to move closer to what has been happening in Sweden. If you're refusing something, it tends to mean you don't want to do it. Usually it's because you're against it. However, as I understand Kent, the Ekeroth Democrats want to reject the fact that they are against the EU and are afraid that Sweden will perish if we continue to deepen cooperation against organised crime within the European Union. This is obviously common sense. My view is that it is unreasonable, and I therefore insist that the House should approve the proposal on the implementation of the EU's defence directives, i.e. the proposal by Mrs SVERI- the government is presenting after a successful effort to raise the level in the European Union.
i-db94adc14a224b26-195	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the civil committee's report CU2, which deals with corporate reporting on sustainability and diversity policy. The proposals are based on an EU directive and require all companies of a certain size and certain groups to draw up a sustainability report with information on the environment, social conditions, staff, respect for human rights and anti-corruption. Some listed companies should also disclose in their corporate governance report the diversity policy applied to the Board of Directors, for example in terms of age, gender, education and professional background. The amending Directive makes it mandatory to require information on sustainability issues from large public-interest entities – as defined in the Accounting Directive – if they have had an average of 500 employees during the financial year at the balance sheet date. The reporting requirement shall be linked to the limit values that define large companies under the Accounting Directive. With a conversion to Swedish kronor, the Government proposes that the requirement should cover those companies that meet two of the following three conditions: the average number of employees for each of the last two financial years is more than 250, the balance sheet total for each of the last two financial years is more than SEK 175 million and the net sales for each of the last two financial years is more than SEK 350 million. Thus, the proposals contained in the proposal in the CU2 report that we are to adopt today mean that the reporting requirement in Sweden will cover more companies than the amending directive provides for. The difference is that large companies that are not listed or financial are also covered and that the additional limit value 500 employees is not applied. Since the requirement is addressed to all companies of a certain size, legal entities other than limited liability companies and partnerships are also covered. The difference between the minimum requirement in the directive and the Government's proposal means that it is in the order of 100 Swedish companies and, with the Government's proposal, up to 1,600 Swedish companies that are affected. With Sweden's membership of the EU, there is an obligation to transpose the provisions of the amending directive into the Swedish legal order. The directive will be implemented in Swedish law by 6 December 2016 – i.e. this year, in a very short time. Otherwise, Sweden will have to pay very severe damages. The legislative amendments to the present report and the legislative proposal are proposed to enter into force on 1 December 2016 and will be applied for the first time for the financial year starting immediately after 31 December 2016. If the report falls today, there is not enough time to comply with the implementation of the directive by 6 December 2016. The alliance parties have expressed reservations about the future shape of the legislation. We believe that the requirement for sustainability reporting should be limited to the companies and groups required by the amending directive and that the government should come back with proposals to Parliament on this. We welcome the aim of the amending directive to increase the availability of information on companies' sustainability efforts. The proposals go significantly beyond what the EU Directive requires in terms of sustainability reporting. Significantly more companies are included than are required to meet the requirements of the Directive, but it has not been made clear that over-implementing – gold-plating, as it is said – brings sufficient benefits, for example in terms of the environmental impact of companies. The Swedish Parliament has recently announced that the Government will come back with proposals that, in relation to the classification of companies in the Annual Report Act, are based on the ambition to reduce the regulatory burden on companies. The proposals put forward in the proposal go in the opposite direction. An increased regulatory burden and increased costs for these companies risk weakening Swedish competitiveness and hitting extremely against Swedish jobs, in times when jobs must be protected. The government's proposals should, as far as possible, create neutrality between listed parent companies and unlisted parent companies in terms of sustainability reporting at group level. Furthermore, there is reason to clarify which issues should be highlighted through sustainability reporting. The Alliance parties' view is that sustainability issues should be given broad meaning. Depending on the company's business orientation, human rights issues, for example, may need to be highlighted from different perspectives. For example, a company extracting natural resources in certain areas may have to report human rights issues from an indigenous perspective, and migrants' rights may be particularly relevant to companies employing many temporary guest workers. The Alliance parties believe that the Riksdag should support this and announce this to the government. I therefore call for reservation 2 from the alliance parties to be approved.
i-db94adc14a224b26-208	Mr President, I would like to As you know, we are debating the issue of mandatory sustainability reporting. I do not think anyone in this House, except perhaps the Swedish Democrats, is raising any fundamental objections to sustainability reporting as such. In fact, the information that is most often included in sustainability reporting is increasingly requested by customers and shareholders today. Instead, this debate should be based on how we in Sweden choose to implement EU legislation in terms of competitiveness. We are rarely late from the Swedish side in whining over complicated regulations and intervention EU legislation. In the vast majority of cases, however, we have ourselves to blame. Because it is not the EU rules themselves that go the furthest, but it is our own implementation. This is done both from the legislative and from the authority level when implementing regulations. We could stand here all day if I were to list every time that the Swedish legislator or the Swedish authorities have gone beyond what an EU directive requires. That is more the rule than the exception. This is also the case this time, and we have to ask ourselves: what does this mean for Swedish competitiveness and Swedish jobs? In the case of a minimum level of implementation, approximately 100 companies would be subject to the legislation in Sweden. The Government chooses in the bill to go 16 times longer: 1 600 companies are covered. In the sketch that was on the table a few years ago, possibly up to 6 000 companies would have been included. If we and many of us had not protested loudly, it would probably have been so. At the same time, we are here with a bill on the table that will cover 1 600 companies. How does this affect our competitiveness? How do we create more jobs through increased charges for our Swedish companies without in any other part returning with regulatory simplifications? If you want to make a proposal competitively neutral and if you know that the proposal will drive up the costs for Swedish companies, you should reasonably compensate the companies elsewhere. According to assessments by industry organisations, sustainability reporting, if it is to be worth the name, can cost as much as SEK 1 million per company. Is the government aware of what it means to impose such costs on 1,600 companies? Is the government aware that Europe's largest economy – Germany – implemented the directive in such a way that it covers half the number of companies covered in Sweden? It says something about the reasonableness or rather the absurdity of the position in which the Swedish Government has landed. I look at the list of speakers for today's debate and see that it is strange that one of the parties that has fought the hardest for this, the Green Party, is not even here today. What kind of signals does it send to the companies that will suffer? What kind of signals does it send to those who are struggling to reduce regulatory problems and bureaucracy? Here we can easily introduce a rule that affects 1,600 companies' competitiveness, and this is not even the case here in the Swedish Parliament. Stefan Löfven said during the 2014 election campaign: If we get the government power, each individual proposal that we put on Parliament's table should be tested on the basis of an employment aspect. We are just going to put forward proposals that generate new jobs. I have a question for the government parties today that I hope they can return to: How many jobs will this bill generate in Swedish companies, by imposing additional costs on them without compensating them for the increased regulatory framework that this bill brings with it? That's my simple question. I would like to conclude this speech by making the only reasonable point, namely to call for the rejection of this proposal and for the approval of reservation 1, and to ask the government to come back with a proposal that better reflects the intentions of the directive. Implement this directive at its minimum level, as our neighbouring economies do, to allow it to be competitively neutral for Swedish companies.
i-db94adc14a224b26-218	Mr President, I would like to All people are unique and should be judged by their own qualities. Nor should any person be attributed a higher or lower value due to his sex, age or origin. For us Swedish democrats, it is important that everyone should feel welcome to a workplace and that no one is discriminated against. A job seeker or a person who is intended to be a member of a board shall be assessed according to competence, by who that person is and by what it can contribute. No one shall have to be valued as more or less worthy due to their gender, age or ethnicity. For if you say that someone is worth more because of their gender or ethnicity, you also say that another sex or ethnicity is less valuable. I refuse to value people according to the criteria that the government now wants companies to start evaluating. Companies will have to report how they work for more diversity in terms of gender, age and origin. This means that companies will now start categorising people according to these categories and then provide annual reports that will show how they work to increase the diversity of the company in these three areas that the government gives as examples of diversity. Diversity has become a word of fashion that no one dares to question, as in that case one risks being branded a racist. Everyone should be for diversity, for whatever reason and context. That is probably why the whole government proposal was not fooled by the consultation bodies. It really should be sawed when you think about what it means. Diversity should be highlighted as an all-powerful god in all businesses and industries. It is now only being introduced on the larger companies and only for the board, but of course all companies are expected to follow suit. In the long term, diversity should prevail everywhere, because, according to the government, diversity is always good in every way. Diversity, however, only means that there should be many different, which can, of course, be discriminatory in the individual case. Why should someone view their skills as less worthy because of their gender or origin? Mr President, I would like to The vision that I have of a society where gender and origin do not matter to a person's chances of success seems to be getting further and further away from us. I want to see a society where what you have between your legs is less interesting than what you have in your head and where a person's career prospects are regardless of which country you are born in or where your parents come from, a society where every person is judged on his or her own merits without being revalued to fit into any multicultural model from the state. Instead, the government is going in the opposite direction, pointing out areas where discrimination is to be made in individual cases against people who happen to be on the side of the over-represented. Friend of order may wonder why the Swedish Democrats, who often themselves highlight problems linked to different groups in society, are now opposed to looking to groups such as women and immigrants. The answer to that is that we don't. We are not opposed to discussing the problems within the groups. As politicians, one can of course see the problems of one or more groups in society and highlight these problems. We, too, can see that there are problems with women and immigrants being less successful in their careers. It is no problem to highlight these problems around a group. It is the solution presented by the government that is a problem. It is no solution in the individual case to try to force companies to choose women over men or immigrants over those who are Swedish. If we had to decide, companies would rather think in the following way: Do we really choose the person who has the best skills regardless of gender, age or origin, and how do we avoid being ruled by prejudice when choosing? This is how companies should think. If the government's proposal had focused on reducing discrimination rather than focusing on increasing diversity, we could have supported it. Instead, if they had told companies to report how they intend to work to avoid discrimination based on gender, age and origin, I would have been the first to support it. But now they are not doing so, but instead they are saying that certain groups should increase at the expense of others. Discrimination against one group shall be prevented by discrimination against another. We don't think two wrongs will be a right. Mr President, I would like to As a party, we have been in favour of collecting statistics on gender, for example, as it may be interesting from a societal perspective and from a gender perspective to know what gender balance actually looks like. Moving from there to wanting to influence the recruitment of companies in a way that in practice calls for discrimination on the grounds of sex, age and origin is a completely different matter. The Swedish Democrats believe that each person should be assessed on the basis of his or her education, experience and suitability, and not on the basis of diffuse views about the person's gender, age and kinship. All people are unique and have unique experiences, knowledge and goals in life. Therefore, people should be assessed individually. In addition, this proposal contains sustainability requirements. These sustainability requirements, which affect far more companies, have not yet been addressed. However, there is probably no need to say so many words about this. That our government and the EU believe that companies of this size do not themselves think about sustainability and that the Swedish government and the EU require an accounting probably says much more about our government and about the EU than about companies. I shall conclude my speech by calling for the approval of reservation 1, which, of course, means a complete rejection of the whole proposal.
i-db94adc14a224b26-231	Mr President, I would like to The government has recently presented legislation that means that Sweden, with only a few weeks' margin, will live up to an EU directive on sustainability and diversity accounting, which is based on companies of a certain size and certain groups being able to report information about the environment, social conditions, staff, respect for human rights and the counter-corruption. Some companies are expected to provide information on the diversity policy applicable to their board of directors in terms of age, gender, training and professional backgrounds, based on the Directive. It is not about anything other than a requirement for accounting, which Mikael Eskilandersson from the Swedish Democrats just claimed to believe it would be about. He must have missed vital parts of the proposal. This is a kind of reporting that all major companies are engaged in, not least because today, thank God, it is considered a competitive advantage to have environmental thinking, to deal with CSR issues, not to be corrupt and not to violate human rights. In addition, it is gratifying that sustainability issues, natural resource issues, climate issues and issues about the environmental impact of operations on a voluntary basis are also a hygiene factor for small companies, most of all perhaps in our own country. The proposal from the EU is well received by the networks of companies' environmental managers, by various think tanks with an environmental focus and, of course, by the environmental movement here in Sweden. There is also plenty of expertise and help to get, not just for big business. The Center Party is not critical of the sustainability report as such, but rather we have accelerated this. It was also during our time in the government that this directive was negotiated. We were the driving force, because we know that Swedish companies are already well ahead while other countries' companies are not. For a great many, certainly more than those covered by the mini-requirements, this is not strange, but rather a natural part of the business and a competitive advantage in Europe and globally. Then we come to this with over-implementing, or gold-plating as it is also called. When the government, although not required, increases the circle of companies from an estimated 100 to 1,600 by simply halving the number of employees required – from 500 employees, as stated in the directive, to 250 – it has undesirable effects. The range includes a total of 1 500 companies that will have increased costs from SEK 40,000 and up to a couple of hundred thousand annually to produce something that we do not know for sure the results and benefits of. Competence is sufficient, and it does provide room for new consultancy companies to develop. But it also risks impairing the competitiveness of Swedish companies vis-à-vis other countries' companies, which do not have to do this work. This means that governments in Sweden, and especially those led by social democrats, are less sensitive to criticism of new rules that make things difficult, expensive and worse, many – not only in business – are critical of. Many citizens, such as those who are now sitting at home watching the debate on television, are probably wondering why Sweden must always be the best in the class. For the former government, an alliance government where the business ministers came from the Center Party and were named Maud Olofsson and Annie Lööf respectively, the simplification of the rules was a goal in itself. If you add a rule, you have to remove two. This was appreciated by the business community, and we cannot claim that during that time companies were getting worse on diversity and sustainability issues – quite the opposite. Mr President, I would like to It is wrong to force the law to develop and thus create new barriers to trade. Instead, Europe's ambitions must be to create greater similarities and thus make it easier to operate on each other's markets. It can hardly be to the detriment of Sweden. Equal opportunities were, of course, the reason why we were involved in negotiating the directive. It becomes costly for the whole of the internal market in Europe when different countries implement the legislation in different ways. In a report, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise says that as much as 32 per cent of the increasing administrative costs to European companies to comply with new legislation come from ineffective and sometimes excessive implementation and not from the laws as such. Our common EU GDP could be 0.8% higher if stricter requirements that affect mobility in the internal market are not introduced in the Member States. When Sweden imposes tougher requirements, it affects not only Swedish companies but the EU as a whole, and the more countries that do like Sweden, the harder it becomes for Europe to cope with global competition. And we know where it comes from and how to work on sustainability issues in those countries. As I said, we now have a legislative proposal to consider. Like the rest of the Alliance, the Center Party is very critical of this and therefore calls for the approval of reservation No 2, which means that the government will return to Parliament as soon as possible with new legislation that only concerns those companies with more than 500 employees who are of general interest, listed companies and credit information companies. We must therefore comply with the minimum requirements. This would mean that far fewer companies would be forced to make a report for which they do not need or know-how. The Government's proposal concerns those companies that meet at least two out of three requirements: In each of the last two years, an average of more than 250 employees . each of the last two years had a balance sheet total of more than SEK 175 million. . each of the last two years had net sales of more than SEK 350 million on average. The Government's proposal also means that more than listed companies will be affected, as Tuve Skånberg pointed out. We had expected the Government to take better account of Parliament's previous decision to classify companies in the future in such a way as to avoid gold-plating and over-implementment. It has not, and we in the Center Party are critical of it. The Center Party sees the value of transparent reporting on activities that may have an environmental impact. Reporting should follow a similar standard but be able to be adapted to different industries, to which operations the company conducts and to where and in which area the impact is greatest. In our own follow-up motion, we have proposed two levels, which would mean a clearly simplified accounting for companies with between 250 and 500 employees. It is broadly equivalent to the proposals of the other parties in the Alliance, who want to see a new legislation in which these companies are completely excluded. If the period until 6 December, when the legislation in Sweden had to enter into force, were not so short, a rejection would be natural. The government would have been able to come back with a less comprehensive proposal which could have been accepted by a majority and welcomed by business organisations. Now is not the time. Legislation with this meaning must be in place when Lucia is at the door and the mulled scent spreads from Christmas parties here and in other workplaces. Let Sweden's companies get a Christmas present this year that means simpler rules, better competitiveness and forward-looking sustainability work that strengthens them! A decision in support of reservation 2 from the Center Party and the Alliance would be such a welcome present.
i-db94adc14a224b26-251	Mr President, I would like to I felt so badly obliged to ask for a reply when I was accused of going untruthful because I claimed that it is something more than just an accounting, as Ola Johansson pointed out in her speech that this was. I want to read aloud from p. 59 in the bill that has been presented. It should be the same bill that Ola Johansson has read. The purpose of the diversity policy reporting requirement is to provide the market with information on how companies work on these issues, which indirectly puts pressure on companies to increase the diversity of boards. So this is not just a matter of accounting. I continue to read: a greater diversity in the board generally contributes to effective supervision of the management and successful governance of the company. Gender balance is an aspect of diversity. ..................................................... In addition to what is stated in the bill, I can point out what is often emphasised in terms of gender balance in the boards, namely that it is important that it is balanced because it says something about the whole company and that by having a more balanced gender balance in the boards, it should have a more balanced gender balance throughout the company. Then the same must also apply to other diversity – by levelling out the boards, it is believed that pressure should be put on companies to increase the diversity of the company as a whole. I'm not sure that's always the case. I am certainly not prepared to support discrimination on the basis of gender, age or background in individual cases.
i-db94adc14a224b26-256	Mr President, I would like to How good that Mikael Eskilandersson took the opportunity to describe for himself why and in what way he completely misinterprets the content of the bill! You yourself say that the requirement for accounting indirectly puts a press, Mikael Eskilandersson. Who is the valuer of the financial statements? Yes, it is customers, partners, investors and funds who intend to invest in a company. The basis for investing in, investing in and buying services and products from a company is, of course, a belief that the company has a potential to take market share and grow – and do so in a sustainable way, with respect to human rights and without corruption, the exploitation of people around the world and environmental pressures. It is the customers and companies' expected partners who will evaluate this. Are Mikael Eskilandersson and the Swedish Democrats saying that they are wrong?
i-db94adc14a224b26-259	Mr President, I would like to My opinion is that the one who decides who will run a company is the one who owns the company and no one else. It is clear here that pressure is being put on companies so that in the individual case it is necessary to consider whether the person has the right sex, whether the person has the right age or whether the person has the right origin to sit on the company's board. Nothing is said about ensuring competence or who is most suitable for the mission. I will never support discrimination against people, even if they discriminate because they believe that there will eventually be less discrimination. Discrimination is never right no matter how you post it. In the individual case there is always discrimination if one says that one sex is more valuable than another sex, that one origin is more valuable than another origin. It is not possible to value people in this way because each person has a completely unique background and unique conditions. There is nothing to say that anyone who comes from another country would have a special experience because of that very fact. If you want a person who has lived in isolation, you might as well choose a Swede who has lived in Rosengård. That person has lived in just as much alienation as an immigrant who has lived in a Swedish area in Sweden.
i-db94adc14a224b26-262	Mr President, I would like to It was not surprising that we had to listen to the foreign-critical rhetoric of the Swedish democrats in this House, too, in this debate. There is a clear majority in Parliament that is critical of the way in which the government implements this directive. There are a few parties that have taken the initiative to call for rejection of the entire bill, which – as I have stated – will have undesirable consequences. We in the Center Party would rather see the government come back with a proposal that follows what we have talked about that we want the government to do when it comes to categorising companies. We expect the government to continue to work on this principle even if we do not get a majority in favour of that proposal when we vote this afternoon. We can also note that in their argument against this proposal, the Swedish Democrats are completely different from how the other parties argue about what creates competitiveness and positive development. Mikael Eskilandersson criticises the directive as such. After all, his argument did not show that there were the problems that you are describing here with the directive that the EU wants to introduce, that it would so completely distort competition throughout Europe. We are also aware of the EU-critical attitude of the Swedish Democrats. It wouldn't surprise us if even that had come to light. But I note that there are miles of differences between how we and you see companies working and creating competitiveness in a global and very challenging market.
i-db94adc14a224b26-268	Madam President, I would like As far as the Liberals are concerned, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 1, which concerns rejecting the proposal as a whole. Liberals welcome the fact that both consumers and investors are demanding companies to clearly report their work on sustainability. Sustainability issues have several dimensions, but they include, for example, how the company should work to address relevant environmental concerns, ensure good working conditions, combat corruption, accessibility for people with disabilities and ensure all types of human rights. The issue in this context in this House is therefore not whether there should be any sustainability reporting at all, but whether there should be. Sustainability reporting already exists, and the Liberals very much welcome this development, and I will give a very clear example. Three out of four companies registered on the Stockholm Stock Exchange today report their climate emissions. It has been a very good development in recent years. We already see that there is sustainability reporting even without mandatory legislation. Instead, the issue at issue is how much of the sustainability reporting should be regulated by mandatory legislation. We Liberals are critical of the government opting for too far-reaching mandatory legislation beyond what the EU directive requires. I think most people know that we Liberals believe that strong EU cooperation makes Sweden stronger and more competitive. For us, the European internal market is based on equal competition – a cooperation based on equal conditions to compete for companies regardless of the country from which they come. When it comes to the implementation of this EU directive on sustainability reporting, the red-green government suffers from what I and many other liberals call a best-in-class complex. The Green Party and the Social Democrats take every chance they get to red tape and deepen the directives proposed by the EU. But then you miss the whole point of the EU directives and of having a single internal market. The point is that you should have the same conditions and conditions for all companies, whether it is a Swedish, Romanian, German or Greek company. In an attempt to be the best in the class, the red-green government is actually the worst in the class. Then let me explain why! The general approach of the Social Democrats and the Green Party to EU directives can be summarised as follows: More Swedes and more Swedish companies will be covered by the directives than the EU countries have agreed. Tougher rules should be given to Swedish companies than the EU countries have agreed. More authorities have to control the Swedish companies than the EU countries have agreed. It will cost Swedish companies more than it will cost other EU countries' companies. This is what we call gold plating in the EU context. They try to be the best in the class, but instead they put the internal market out of play. Swedish companies get much worse rules to work with than other companies get. Germany and Finland will now introduce the EU minimum requirements, while Sweden will force twice as many companies to report sustainability than Germany in total, although Germany has 90 million inhabitants and Sweden soon has 10 million inhabitants. What the Red-Green Government does not understand is that Sweden is now the worst in the class. All of a sudden, at least 1,400 small Swedish companies are getting a costly report on their necks. Nor can the government specify how much this will cost. The bill states between SEK 100 000 and SEK 1 million. According to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the cost is between SEK 1 million and SEK 2 million, which competitors in Europe do not have to pay. It is not good for competitiveness and it is not good for Sweden either. It also annoys me a little that there is no analysis in the proposal of what this means for the companies concerned. I would therefore like the representative of the Social Democrats to explain this in his speech. I notice that the Green Party has not even been pleased to come to this House today, despite the fact that there are five six more Members than the Liberals have. If the Green Party does not even endeavour to come here and have a debate on the matter, I wonder why they are putting forward a proposal in plenary. I would also like to point out that most listed companies, except the smallest ones, are already providing some form of voluntary sustainability reporting, usually based on the guidelines drawn up by the international organisation Global Reporting Initiative. It should also be mentioned that many companies already have reporting requirements in many of the areas that are similar to the current requirements through other legislation, such as the Accounting Act. No arguments have been put forward at all in the bill or from the Red-Greens about what proves that the requirements that already exist are not sufficient. We Liberals therefore believe that the requirement for sustainability reporting should be limited to the companies and groups required by the amending directive. That is why in the Liberals we say no to the bill. We believe that the government should return to Parliament with a new proposal that only covers these companies. I would also like to mention in this connection that the Liberals have exercised in Parliament that we want a rule in – a rule out. Sweden should therefore introduce a legislative principle whereby any new onerous administrative rule decided in Parliament should be matched by the removal of another onerous administrative rule. It has already been introduced by countries such as Germany, Canada and the United Kingdom, and we will pursue this issue in the Swedish Parliament and in the European Parliament. I think it is very important for Swedish entrepreneurship and our competitiveness.
i-8EpEeAZzQrrFJfjmdBDNnx	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the civil committee's report No 2 Business reporting on sustainability and diversity policy. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Sustainable entrepreneurship is basically about running companies with a view to the future, seeing the challenges that exist and working towards positive social development. It is also about minimising the negative impact of companies on society and giving the outside world a greater picture of what they are doing. We now see that sustainability work and diversity work are becoming increasingly important in the future. Here in the debate we have heard that sustainability is a good thing, that it welcomes sustainability reporting and so on. A bit into the speeches, however, there is one: this is not something that we legislators should do. What the Socialist and environmental party government has said is that politics is will. We want Sweden to go further. Sweden should stand out and be at the forefront. Therefore, we believe that sustainability reporting is an extremely important issue. It is also a question of the future, which is one of the reasons why this proposal goes a little further than the EU acquis. I have had some contacts with the industry that works with sustainability accounting. It was interesting to see their work. This is certainly an industry that is growing quite a lot. In Sweden today, we are good at sustainability reports, and we export this knowledge. I even believe that one job or another is being created – on the question of how many jobs are being lost. We're good at this. As I said, I have met people in the industry and I have been given examples of what this is about, something that one might otherwise wonder. One of these examples is an organisation in the internet industry. It has 70 employees and a turnover of approximately 170 million. There they started the Sustainability Report 2015. The aim has been to create attractiveness as an employer, i.e. to work with sustainability and diversity issues to attract the very best. The company has therefore landed that the sustainability reports according to GRI, and this has led to significant positive effects. The biggest positive effect, except that the company has a much better idea of what you are doing, is that this has created a pride. The employees in the company feel proud that they are actually doing the right thing and doing good things. Another example is an organization in the clothing industry. It has 37 employees and a turnover of approximately 100 million. A lot of work has also been done here to make the consumer feel that the products the company sells are environmentally friendly and that they are produced in a fair way. The sustainability report has been extremely important here in order to demonstrate to the consumer that the company is fair and sells decent products. My last example concerns an organisation in the food industry. The company has approximately 180 employees, and its turnover is slightly over 11⁄2 billion. It is about showing consumers, suppliers and owners that they have a fair supply chain and make good use of certification. Against the customer you want to show that you have quality in the products you sell. These were some examples of companies that in some cases will not be affected by government proposals while others will. In any case, they show why CSR and diversity policy reporting are important. Looking back over the last few years, there is an extremely positive development in this area. Many Swedish companies, as well as many companies globally, are engaged in this. One of the main reasons why this is being done is that investors increasingly feel that this is important today. Companies with such reporting are more likely to attract investors. Looking at some telecom companies and their more or less good business around the world, you might think that they might have felt good having a clearer sustainability and diversity policy in some businesses. There may also be companies in Europe's automotive industry that might have felt good working a little more on sustainability issues. We now see that these have problems with the credibility of investors and customers. Let us focus on the essence of the debate: why has the government gone a little further? Well, if we had kept to the minimum EU directive, about 100 companies would have been affected by this. Of these sustainability reports, virtually everyone today. Instead, the government uses the definition of large companies, which means that 1,600 Swedish companies are affected. Many of these companies report sustainability, as we have heard in the debate, already today. So I do not see this as particularly problematic. I am guessing that we will be debating the increased costs in some of the shifts, but these are not very large. When I have spoken to the industry, I have learned that it is possible to report sustainability for a cost of less than 100 000 if you think that sustainability reporting is not important. I believe that the legal requirement is met for 20 000 – 30 000. But all serious companies probably want a sustainability report that is worth the name and therefore it has to cost a little more. You may think this is a big burden, but it is very little money for a company that has a turnover of hundreds of millions. The bill basically means that large companies in Sweden should inform about how to work with sustainability issues, the environment and human rights. The government is in favour of this.
i-db94adc14a224b26-298	Madam President, I would like It is exciting to debate so much business and employment policy in the Committee on Civil Liberties. Few people know that we do. It is good that Johan, through his way of arguing, also highlights the great differences that exist in the view of entrepreneurship and jobs. We agree in essence that sustainability reporting is a good thing and that there are too many positive things with it. But the government overimplements it all, which is also visible in Johan's way of arguing when he uses a quote by, I think, Olof Palme. 中 Politics is to want. Yes, politics is obviously to want something – and also not to want anything else. What will social democracy and the government want to simplify the rules and create better conditions for companies to hire more and to be able to grow and compete in a global market? Johan takes the telecom industry as an example. There is much else to be desired by how companies with Swedish background work in that market, but it is also about who they have to compete with. These are essentially not European companies, but companies coming from other continents and continents. They operate under completely different conditions. My questions to Johan are: In what way does the government intend to compensate the 1,500 companies that will now suffer additional costs? And why are you so late – the car falls on 6 December? How is it that it has taken so long to come up with such a proposal? There's no way to discuss this before the precipice is presented.
i-db94adc14a224b26-302	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think it will be very harsh terms. We are talking about over-implementing and the huge charges that are being imposed on these companies. However, the companies that will be affected by this legislation have a few hundred million turnover, and most of those companies are already carrying out this kind of accounting today. The required charge is about 100,000. You can also meet the legal requirement at much less cost, says the industry, although it will not be very nicely done. That means that the charges are very small. The profits are the greater. It's about Sweden actually sticking out and saying that we think sustainability accounting and diversity policies are important, that this is something we want Swedish companies to do. At the same time, it turns out that Sweden today is extremely good at this. It is even the case that a fairly large industry is emerging in this area, which I believe will ultimately boost the reputation and give Sweden a positive boost on these issues. Now that I have a few seconds left of my speaking time, I would like to comment on the movements of the bourgeois parties. When I read the various motions, I note that the will is different between the parties, at least from exercise writing, and gives a slightly different approach. For example, I don't really get together how to reduce the circle of companies and at the same time think it is important that more parent companies in groups should report sustainability. So we are moving in a slightly different direction, and that is something that I would like us to focus a little bit on during the next line shifts.
i-db94adc14a224b26-305	Madam President, I would like I thank Johan Löfstrand for the debate. There is a significant difference in how we view job creation and the business environment in Sweden. Obviously, the Social Democrats and the current government live in the belief that the parliament can decide on jobs. Here Johan talks about the possibility for consulting companies to develop and implement sustainability reporting, which the Riksdag decides to overimplement in Swedish law. This creates jobs and jobs. It's clear. Many Swedish companies see competitive advantages in doing this and do it too. It is all the positive examples that both Johan and I have the opportunity to highlight that have led to this development, not a parliamentary decision to overimplement a directive. What the Center Party went forward with in its follow-up motion was that we should have two levels of implementation, one with essential regulatory simplifications and one in accordance with the minimum requirement. We had, of course, hoped for that proposal to be adopted. However, pending the realisation of this, we would rather have the Riksdag announce that the Government will come back with a proposal to introduce the minimum requirements of the directive. It is a bit interesting that Johan says that there is a possibility for companies to do this in the simplest way for 20 000 SEK. If you claim that there is a simpler door out, it speaks against the entire implementation. Why do you do this if you can mainly ignore it and get away with it for 20 000 kroner?
i-db94adc14a224b26-309	Madam President, I would like What I meant was that I believe that most companies – and almost all the companies that will be affected by this legislation – consider diversity issues and sustainability issues to be important. You will make a very serious account of this, and you will comply with this law. I am absolutely convinced that most of them are already doing this today. I have gone through a number of the companies that would be affected, and everyone is doing this today. The enormous imposition of which the bourgeois parties speak does not exist. Rather, it is a question of creating a conflict about something that really does not exist. Ola Johansson previously asked a question about why we are so late. There have been a number of talks between the government and the bourgeois parties, and there the criticism was not at all as harsh and pointed as it is now in this House. It is true that you have been able to express your views!
i-db94adc14a224b26-311	Madam President, I would like Johan Löfstrand begins by saying that politics is to want. No, Johan, politics is choosing, to prioritize. For some inscrutable reason, your priorities always land in that someone else should be forced to do more. Someone else should be forced to make concessions. Someone else is going to get increased bureaucratic charges. Someone else should pay more in taxes. Now Johan Löfstrand stands in the speaker's chair and says that the profits are greater. However, if the benefits of doing so were greater, everyone would reasonably do so in a free market. Of course it depends on the situation. What this legislative proposal does not take up is precisely what the respective companies are in. Because you want to go much further than what the directive requires of us. Why does Swedish competitiveness get better and stronger if we go 16 times longer? Johan Löfstrand stands in the speaker's chair and says that we go a little further. But we are therefore going 16 times longer than the directive requires of us. Johan Löfstrand talks about this taking time because the government has had a lot of talks with the Alliance. There's been a conversation with the Alliance. During that conversation, we also announced the view we are announcing here today. That is clarification, Johan Löfstrand, when you say that more jobs will be created. It turns out that the jobs you refer to in the speaker's chair go to the consultants who will invoice more due to increased bureaucratic charges. Of course, the people you meet in this business are of the opinion that it's fun to invoice more. But that's not how you basically create more jobs in Sweden, Johan Löfstrand.
i-db94adc14a224b26-315	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has the ability to turn things around. What I mean when I talk about profits and that politics is to want is basically that I and the government believe that it is a great social benefit that we have a clear regulatory framework for sustainability accounting. It is a profit for companies, both now and in the future. It is a profit for consumers, who get a much better idea of what different companies stand for. It's a profit for investors to know which companies to invest in. I also see a win in that we will be very good and distinguished in this area. That is something I think we should be proud of. Sweden is already one of the leading countries in sustainability and gender equality issues. I think we should be proud of that and that this is an industry that is growing. But, of course, I also see that the companies that are going to report sustainability and that already present sustainability reports are making a profit by having a much better dialogue with their owners, with consumers and with future investors. Then I think it will be a little silly in the debate with what Mr Bohlin points out in his speech that the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government is now going to over-implement in this area as well. In the eight years during which the Alliance ruled, it was also not the case that minimum directives were adopted in all areas. I am absolutely convinced of that. There was, I hope, a political will from the bourgeois government to go a little further.
i-db94adc14a224b26-318	Madam President, I would like Johan Löfstrand says that we should be proud of the industry that is growing. He then refers to the sector of accounting consultants that can now be invoiced more. It was probably a long time ago that we heard such a clear statement directly from a special interest in this speaker's chair. It's a little distressing, let's say. What Johan Löfstrand consistently avoids responding to is how Swedish competitiveness is strengthened by forcing Swedish companies to 16 times more charges than our neighbours in Finland and Germany implement. How do we get more jobs out of this proposal? In fact, Stefan Löfven gave the election promise that each minister would account for how all proposals put forward create more jobs. Then we are not talking about more jobs among people who live by writing papers that we demand from businesses. Then we are talking about how companies can grow and hire more people. Can Johan Löfstrand venture to answer the question? It is sad that Johan Löfstrand completely confuses apples and pears in his main post when he begins to talk about that if we had only had demands for sustainability reporting, Telia might not have engaged in corruption in Uzbekistan and Volkswagen would have had better values in its engines. Of course, it is not okay for companies to violate either international or Swedish legislation just because they do not report sustainability. To stand and insinuate it in the speaker's chair, I think it's a little sloppy.
i-db94adc14a224b26-323	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has the ability to turn things around. That is not what I have said. Basically, it is not that we have companies that conduct consulting activities. It is about the signum that Sweden stands for. We are one of the countries that are taking the lead in the sustainable construction of society. That is something we should be proud of. It has been done through political decisions and that we have a set of environmental objectives that have made a number of proposals in broad agreement. That's because we've had politicians who were brave and actually wanted to do things. We will be proud of Sweden and Swedish companies. They are considered to be very environmentally friendly and have a very clear sustainability strategy. That is something we should be proud of. In addition to a huge amount of benefits for society, huge profits are also generated for consumers. They are aware of what is happening. There are much greater gains for owners and investors. In the long run, there will also be profits for the companies that report sustainability. I believe that these companies will attract new groups. The buying strong groups that we see in society today are conscious consumers and conscious investors. I believe that the companies that are at the forefront, want something and will take the lead will also benefit from sustainability reporting. I believe that we will see even more of this than we have seen so far.
i-db94adc14a224b26-328	Madam President, I would like It is very fascinating to listen to Johan Löfstrand, who speaks with a very strong emphase. You sound a bit like a classic vacuum cleaner salesman knocking on the door, offering a luxurious vacuum cleaner in stylish packaging and explaining why this is so very good and so very necessary. In reality, you already have a vacuum cleaner that works. You don't have to pay the expensive price, and you get much longer with the vacuum cleaner you already have at home than with the luxurious vacuum cleaner that the seller wants to offer. I wish you would speak with the same embodiment when it comes to LSS legislation. Politics is to want and to create a sustainable society. Before entering the Chamber, I spoke to a voter from Västmanland, Mrs Eriksson's home country, who said about her child: they will remove her assistance hours. I hope that instead of talking about sustainability for businesses and forcing accounting on them, you really went out and fought with the same emphase in order, for example, to enable people who have children who need assistance to work. ( FIRST VICE PALMANN: I would ask the honourable Member to stick to the subject. ) That's the subject. It's about sustainability. These companies are already engaged in sustainability accounting. It is more important for us politicians to work on other issues when companies are already working on sustainability. For example, three out of four listed companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange already report their climate emissions. Politics is to want. Instead, work with the LSS legislation and do it right for people. Now let us look at whether there are shortcomings in the legislation. You're saying that the Global Reporting Initiative already covers a large part of the area. You're saying the companies already do. You're talking about an extremely positive development. You highlight a number of positive examples. All of this has been done without any legal requirements. I would like to ask you, what shortcomings are there today in the Accounting Act? What are the shortcomings of the Global Reporting Initiative? Why do you need to stand here and poke instead of improving LSS legislation?
i-db94adc14a224b26-334	Madam President, I would like I think you speak against yourself in a very large stretch, Robert Hannah. Basically, it is just as I said in my speech. The point is that as legislators I want to point out a direction. In the same way as when politicians have dared to point out a direction many times before, I want to point out a direction towards where I want society to go. As a social democrat, I am proud to have done and still do so. It generates a good society. Whether it's about LSS or sustainability reporting, it's about wanting to. The sustainability report and environmental thinking that Sweden and Swedish companies have today is very much about that there has been and there is a political will. We will continue to push this forward, because you should never stop a will direction. It is a bit funny when we heard earlier in the line shifts that the biggest problem is the enormous charges that will now be imposed on companies because of the government's over-implementment. The next moment we listen to Robert Hannah, we hear that almost all of these companies already report sustainability. Then there'll be no charge. It is basically the case that the government implements legislation that everyone already complies with. Then the entire Alliance's reasoning falls into the reservation where it is said that the enormous charges will destroy competitiveness and force Swedish companies so that they do not make it. You say in your speech, Robert, that companies are already doing this. Then there'll be no big charge, which is the biggest criticism, right?
i-db94adc14a224b26-339	Madam President, I would like It is very clear that Johan Löfstrand has never been involved in entrepreneurship. Those are very ignorant answers. Why there is an enormous burden is for politics to go in and rule out exactly how companies should account. Then it's a charge. You as a social democrat think it is the political will to sit and rule over the companies, how they should be governed, how they should account and in what way. The Global Reporting Initiative's demand is to report. You suddenly want to act as CEO and owner of companies and control how they should report. That's the big difference. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and all other experts indicate that it will cost. It's not Robert Hannah and the Alliance who say that. It's the experts. They are the ones you do not have an answer to, and they are the ones you cannot explain why the cost and burden will increase. As far as political will is concerned, it is better to deal with issues that actually help people in everyday life and do not deal with issues that will make it more difficult. I still think you're like a vacuum cleaner salesman. You're trying to sell something that already exists. You want to make it more expensive to have the goods that already exist. Somewhere you need to go back and think about why this is even necessary. If anyone speaks against themselves, it's you, isn't it? If companies are already reporting and doing a good job, as you point out, and we are already having a positive development, why, all of a sudden, should politics go in and poke into the legislation? Why should we have higher requirements in our legislation than Germany, Finland and all other countries in the EU market have? Why should Sweden deal with gold-plating and have the absolute highest demands on our companies? Solve LSS legislation and ensure that people can come to work instead of becoming unemployed and caring for their children because you are cutting back on LSS hours.
i-db94adc14a224b26-345	Madam President, I would like The reason we are making the proposals is because we want something. In this area, as in so many other areas, we want something. We want Sweden to go ahead. We want Swedish companies to take the lead, because we think it is good for consumers and investors. We basically believe that it is also good for companies. Robert Hannah is talking about accounting rules. Earlier in the debate, we talked about the EU's internal market. It was important that we created transparent rules that made everyone have the same conditions. It is good to have common accounting rules that make everyone report in the same way so that investors and consumers can compare. But this free way where everyone should account for a little how they want to create transparency does not. It does not create opportunities for the internal market or for consumers and investors in the internal market to make simple choices. You're contradicting yourself here, too. There are a number of international standards today, and if we are going to have a standard, we are going to try to follow them. If this is what Robert Hannah says – that most companies already today follow any of these standards – then that's great! There will be no charge, and we make sure that Sweden is at the forefront. I believe that in a few years' time there will be a great deal of consensus on this legislation. To a large extent, it will be felt that this was the right way to go. Perhaps there should even be more companies who would have to practice working with sustainability and diversity policy.
i-db94adc14a224b26-350	Madam President, I would like As noted in my speech, I have chosen to concentrate on the part of the proposal relating to diversity policy. This is particularly true of the importance of gender. Now the government is choosing to further focus on gender and to increase the focus on which gender the people on the boards, and thus also in the companies, have. I see it as a problem, because it can be perceived as discriminatory. Above all, it can be discriminatory in the individual case. I think the government realizes that. If a board already has a low representation of women, this board or this company will feel an enormous pressure to opt out of men. It is discrimination, even if it is discrimination against what is perhaps traditionally perceived as the stronger sex. I would like to see a move towards legislation and a way of accounting that goes less into the gender of people – especially because we live in a world where we are now beginning to talk about introducing a third sex and that there are people who feel that they do not have the right biological sex. So these people should be forced into a system where they have to choose between the two genders that exist today. If a third sex were to be introduced, it may be even more exciting to see how to use it in a diversity policy. I wonder why the government thinks it is so important which gender people belong to that, in addition to other contexts, legislation on gender balance has threatened, even in this case, to choose to designate gender as an important factor of diversity. Why is gender so important to you?
i-db94adc14a224b26-354	Madam President, I would like No, basically, I don't think gender is important. The most important thing is that the whole of society is represented in different ways in different instances in our social structure. If you look back, and if you do an analysis of society today, you can see that we have a bias where one sex is not more represented – or at least is underrepresented – on a number of different functions in society. Then, as a political representative, I would like us to work on these issues. You can do that in a variety of ways. You can work with it by conducting a political debate where you say it is extremely important that both sexes are represented. You can also work with it through a diversity policy or even go further and ultimately discuss quotas or whatever it might be. This is an issue that is extremely important in terms of which society we want. I want a society in which my children, whether it is my daughter or my son, who are growing up in this country should have the same conditions when they go to school, when they come to work or when they might end up on a board of directors. They must have the same conditions regardless of gender. That is something that is extremely important. I am convinced of this, and I share that conviction with quite a large part of both this House and the Swedish people. We've been good at gender equality work, but you can't stop. It is important, then, that the question be highlighted in different ways.
i-db94adc14a224b26-359	Madam President, I would like Here we were told that gender is not important. The example was that son and daughter would have the same conditions. But do you not understand from the government that Johan Löfstrand's son and Johan Löfstrand's daughter get completely different conditions if they apply to the same board where there is a missing person and where you already have an over-representation of men? Of course, they will not be judged equally. Then, of course, the daughter is judged to be more worthy because of her gender alone and nothing else because there is already an over-representation of one side. Diversity issues are terribly important and very interesting to the company. So far, I definitely agree. It is about the company being able to gain maximum competence. A company that opts out of people on the basis of gender, age or origin does not acquire maximum skills in its company. For the company's own sake, it must work on diversity issues in this way. This is to go in and account for the gender of one's board members is to go too far. Then you start focusing on the wrong things, and then you have no longer concentrated on what is important to the company. For the company, it is important to have a corporate culture that does not opt out of skills whether it is a man or a woman. Whether it is Johan Löfstrand's son or daughter who is applying for the position on the board, she and he must be assessed according to what competence they have. Although both would be Johan Löfstrand's daughters, they certainly do not both have exactly the same skills just for that. Why doesn't the government understand such a fundamental thing?
i-db94adc14a224b26-363	Madam President, I would like Of course, the issue of competence is very important. If we are to be able to engage in entrepreneurship in this country, both when choosing company boards and when hiring people, you have to choose the one with the absolute highest competence. What I think Mikael Eskilandersson misses a little bit in his reasoning is the fundamental structural problem we have in society because women are much more discriminated against and do not get the same opportunities to emerge in society. Based on the structural phenomena that exist, we must work to create equality. Then you have to use different methods to raise these issues. There are structural barriers which mean that we do not have full equality and that people do not have exactly the same conditions. That is why it is extremely important that we constantly have a debate on equality and the equal opportunities of all people to participate in society. However, apart from debating and raising the issue time and again, it is about the courage to move forward. Then we need to take these issues into account in different types of accounts, but in the long run we may also need to go further and actually legislate.
i-db94adc14a224b26-366	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The world is facing major challenges today. Climate change is ongoing, and we see the effects on the news every day: droughts, extreme weather and floods that ultimately lead to famine, conflicts and threatened ecosystems. But sustainable development is not only about the environment but also about social, economic and ecological development. In order to achieve sustainable development, all three dimensions are needed. In September 2015, the UN adopted an Agenda for Sustainable Development with among other things 17 new global targets valid until 2030 – the so-called Agenda 2030. The Agenda highlights the importance of companies for development and calls for companies to be encouraged to introduce sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting. The proposal now presented by the government is in line with Agenda 2030. The proposal means that all Swedish companies of a certain size should establish a sustainability report with information about the environment, social conditions, staff and respect for human rights and how they work to combat corruption. Some listed companies should also disclose in their corporate governance the diversity policy applied to the Board of Directors, with regard to, for example, age, gender, education and professional background. Diversity policy is needed because we see that there are major shortcomings in many company boards in terms of diversity, for example in terms of women's representation. We live in a patriarchal society where the man is seen as the norm, and this is reflected in many company boards. In stock exchange companies, men still dominate greatly. We must, of course, do something about this, and it is therefore regrettable that the Swedish Democrats do not see the importance of gender equality work. These proposals are both good and necessary, and the Left Party supports them. The proposals are also based on an EU directive. There is a great public interest in companies informing about how they work with sustainability issues. Both investors and the wider public have the right to know well how companies deal with environmental, social, human resources, human rights and corruption issues. Although many companies already provide such information, reporting differs. A statutory requirement for sustainability reporting can also increase transparency and facilitate comparison between different companies. Many Swedish companies are already engaged in active and ambitious sustainability work, as we have heard about here in the debate, and report on it. If they don't, it's time to start. Many companies have recognised that sustainability is successful and can help to strengthen competitiveness in the long term. I am convinced that sustainable enterprise is a success factor. Innovation, sustainable consumption and production can contribute to solutions to the common challenges of global society. I am surprised that the bourgeois parties do not think it is important that more than a few companies take full responsibility for sustainability issues, but want to limit the proposal to a minimum level, which would mean that only about 100 companies would have to report on their sustainability work. We cannot hand over responsibility for these crucial issues to individuals, the state and the municipality alone; of course, companies must also assume their responsibility for more sustainable development. Nor is there any reason to fear that it would entail such enormous costs for companies as the sportsmen would like to point out. Many companies already have sustainability reporting, and most companies have information about emissions, corruption risks and environmental impacts. What we now need to do is perhaps to better coordinate our operations, which may involve some costs initially but benefit both society and companies in the long term. I see this legislation as a step in the right direction in order to create a more sustainable society, but in the long term more and clearer measures and guidelines in this area will most likely be required if we want to achieve social welfare and global justice within the framework of ecologically sustainable borders. I support the proposal in the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and reject all reservations.
i-db94adc14a224b26-376	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve's speech sparked a curiosity in me. I would like to ask Lotta Johnsson Fornarve how this proposal contributes to the business community and to the competitiveness of Swedish companies.
i-db94adc14a224b26-377	Madam President, I would like I find it a little strange that the Center Party and Ola Johansson do not see that successful sustainability work can be a success factor for entrepreneurship with innovations in, for example, the environment, sustainable consumption and production and that this can lead to increased competitiveness rather than vice versa. If Sweden takes the lead on these issues, I think we can create many new jobs in this area in the future. I also believe that it is necessary that we take joint responsibility for the environment and that we cannot hand over that responsibility only to individuals, states and municipalities, but that companies must also be part of this important work. We are facing a major challenge, not least with regard to the climate issue.
i-db94adc14a224b26-379	Madam President, I would like I gave Lotta Johnsson Fornarve two minutes to present this proposal and, unless she deviates from the subject, how the Left Party generally wants to contribute to creating better conditions for Swedish companies to operate. I give her two more minutes to explain how the Left Party views regulatory simplification work and how it can help strengthen the conditions for Swedish companies to hire more people and be able to grow and thus contribute to the competitiveness of the EU.
i-db94adc14a224b26-381	Madam President, I would like It must be seen that companies have a responsibility for sustainability work. It is extremely important that we do not just hand it over to individuals, states and municipalities, but companies must be involved in taking responsibility for this. I am convinced that this will ultimately lead to an enterprise targeting a more sustainable market and that it can lead to more jobs and better competition with the outside world.
i-db94adc14a224b26-383	Madam President, I would like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve said in her speech that the Swedish Democrats are against gender equality and also said that we live in a patriarchal society, i.e. a society governed by a patriarchy. Patriarchy means fatherhood, and it is there that sons and men normally inherit titles and money and have the advantage of being a man compared to being a woman. We have had patriarchal structures in Sweden for a long time back in time. However, I believe that most of the legislation is now regulated. I get the impression that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve believes that she still lives in a patriarchy. Then I wonder: What exactly are the laws and rules that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve thinks remain that prevent women from becoming equal to men and where women are distributed? There is no law that says that boards should include more men than women or that men should have more advantage from running businesses. My personal view is that we can only achieve real equality when we can ignore gender and it has no meaning at all if you are a woman or a man. I see that the legislation we have largely means that we should not have any differences. But now the government is introducing differences where diversity policies are to be developed and possibly discriminate against men directly when it comes to company boards in order to achieve a more even distribution in them. What laws and rules is what Lotta Johnsson Fornarve believes remain patriarchal?
i-db94adc14a224b26-388	Madam President, I would like I think it is quite clear that the Swedish Democrats do not stand up for an equal society. When I talk about a patriarchal society, I mean that we still live in a gender power system where it is men's norms and values that govern society in a variety of areas. This means, for example, that women earn less, often have lower working conditions and are less represented, especially on company boards. We need to change this and do something about it. I want to create an equal society in which women and men have the same opportunities, the same obligations and the same rights. There is much to be done in this area, and demanding such a diversity policy can be a good start. It could be an incentive for companies to start reviewing their representation.
i-db94adc14a224b26-390	Madam President, I would like I do not really share the view that there is still a gender power regime that makes women earn less. One major reason why women generally earn less is that they work in the public sector. There are people like Lotta Johnsson Fornarve and her friends in the same party and decide what wages it should be. In general, a decision could have been made to increase wages so that they become more equal, but you choose not to do so because you do not get the budget together. The fact that women have worse working conditions is not enshrined in any law that says, but that the public sector in particular has poor working conditions overall, and many women work in the public sector. There, our view is probably based on what is gender power and what is actually about what we have decided as politicians. Much of that could be cancelled tomorrow if you wanted to. It is purely political decisions that determine what wages it should be in the public sector, and it is purely political decisions that determine what working conditions it should be in the public sector, because we are deciding on them for the most part. I still do not understand why it is blamed on a gender power regime. Is it because of men in general that it looks like this? Is it generally due to men that it is not decided whether to increase wages and improve working conditions in the public sector? I don't think so. I think it is because the politicians sitting there do not have enough money to implement it, as it stands today.
i-db94adc14a224b26-394	Madam President, I would like It is regrettable that Mikael Eskilandersson does not see that there is still a gender power system in our society. It is men's standards and values that govern a variety of areas. We must do something about it if we want to create a truly equal society. It is true that many women work in typical so-called women's professions and that wages there are lower. We have to work to get those salaries up. The fact that wages are low is largely due to the fact that the professions are women-dominated. But if we want to achieve an equal society, much needs to be done, including in a variety of other areas. We must create a society in which women and men, girls and boys have the same rights, obligations and opportunities.
i-db94adc14a224b26-396	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate the MJU4 report on wild boar and game damage. It can also be attributed to the previous debate on sustainability. We Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left Party, have two reservations. However, in order not to take up the time of the House with further bourgeois quarrels, we only call for the approval of reservation 1. Government bill 2015/ 16:199 Wild boar and game injuries are built in three parts: feeding, camera surveillance and swift handling of targets dealing with hunting for bears, wolverines, louses or royal eagles. The government has proposed amendments to the Hunting Act. The amendments essentially include the possibility for the responsible authorities to prohibit or regulate the feeding of wild game on the basis of needs. It is also proposed that the Hunting Act provides for cases of hunting for bears, wolverines, loans or royal eagles to be dealt with promptly. As regards camera surveillance, the government has found that the issue is complex and has therefore transferred it to an investigation under way at the Ministry of Justice on camera surveillance. It is about Directive 2015:125, which in this House is handled by the Committee on Justice and the KU. So we will certainly have reason to come back to that. That particular issue did not become less complex when the Supreme Administrative Court in a well-attended judgment that came last week announced a ban on camera surveillance in drone operations. It will also be handled by the investigation. Madam President, I would like The former government decided, following a proposal from the former Rural Minister, Eskil Erlandsson, in June 2012, that a special investigator would review the hunting legislation in the so-called Hunting Act investigation. The mission included considering how to regulate the feeding of wild game. An additional directive from 2013 also commissioned the investigator to investigate the possibility of introducing a specific exemption from the permit requirement for surveillance cameras for game surveillance. This committee has brought forward both additional directives to the Hunting Act and an announcement to the government that it is urgent that the government submit a legislative proposal exempting the permit requirement for surveillance of wild boar eels and other game surveillance. Consideration should be given to the possibility of introducing further exemptions from the authorisation requirement. Camera surveillance is a bigger issue. Although we think it is easy when it comes to game surveillance, it is a matter of personal integrity. Therefore, the government has also set up a special investigation under the direction of Susanne Kaevergaard, who is head of supervision at the Prosecutor's Office. She's been assigned to the government to investigate certain issues of wildlife surveillance. The investigation has been extended and will present the results of its mission in June 2017. With reference to the ongoing work of the Government, we believe that there is no reason for the Riksdag to make a statement on the matter. We therefore reject those motions and the text of the majority. The question, as I said, is no less complex because the Supreme Administrative Court has issued a judgment in this area. That judgment cannot be ignored by any government – regardless of its colour. We will therefore have reason to return. The motions on this issue and the majority text written by the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats are, in our view, nonsense. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats strive for sustainable and effective game management. As regards predator management, the government has now amended the regulation and directives to the responsible authorities so that hunting decisions can be taken with good foresight. The Government decided on 25 February this year to amend the hunting regulation, which means that the County Administrative Board's decision to hunt for the large predators bear, wolf, wolverine, lynx and royal eagles should be able to be appealed to the General Administrative Court. It was also decided on an urgent requirement for cases of hunting for the large predators. It is important that the appeal process is effective and that appeals are handled in such a way that decisions can arrive well in advance of the hunt. To clarify it further, the government has moved all cases relating to such appeals to an administrative law, namely the Administrative Court of Luleå. This is particularly relevant when winter wolf hunts are traditionally appealed by more extreme conservation organisations. What we are going to decide today is to introduce a requirement for swift handling of such appeals, so that we can put an end to it. Madam President, I would like When it comes to feeding or dumping feed, it is strange. Two governments are pushing and working on an issue for quite a long time. When the matter then comes back to us in Parliament, we get a majority in the committee who doubts the intentions of two governments. I can understand that the Swedish Democrats have doubts about two governments. It is like the thing of the Swedish Democrats, to doubt all credibility. It is beyond any reasonable doubt that the feeding of game has increased sharply over the last 20 years. Despite intense debate and opinion-forming against this, not least from the LRF, the feeding of game does not decrease. A survey conducted in 2014 from SLU shows that wild game is fed for at least SEK 340 million per year. The LRF has also been able to show that feeding has continued to increase since then. This is because, among other things, the view of game, hunting and hunting has changed gradually. Conflicts stem from different approaches to how much game a landscape and land should and can carry and how it is affected by wild feed. The opinion of the Social Democrats is that the edge of the game management against the manipulation of nature to produce more game is a result of the arms race that started when the boar came back. It is an arms race that is and has been driven by the will and interest of the big landowners to sell hunting expensively. The feeding became a method of getting wild boar and cloven-hoofed game to stay on the ground. Sugar cane is a fantastic crop to attract red deer, dovhjort and moose to stay on the land, so that they can be hunted and sold expensively. Those who remain are then spread on neighboring land and trample the crops of other soilers. Is it supposed to be like that? We don't think so. Large amounts of food that is dumped also attract others, such as birds and rats, who carry other disadvantages such as the spread of infection. It is also extremely strange to me that the bourgeois parties are now so openly doubting their former minister. The government has based itself on the Hunting Act investigation. The views of the consultative bodies have been taken as a starting point. Eskil Erlandsson then has to explain what was so wrong with it. He can also explain why it is not necessary to take into account the responses of the consultation bodies. Why should it be that a landowner can continue to fertilize wild in the sense of pushing up large tribes that can be sold for expensive money, while at the same time the farmer's crops on the next property and the summer stuge- or homeowner's garden is destroyed? Madam President, I would like It also expresses great concern about the Swedish model and our Swedish authorities' ability to deal with this issue, an issue that is particularly suitable for regional testing. The wild boars are homely and easy to line in an area. Wild boars are hard to hunt because they are the most active at night. Sixty-three per cent of wild boars are felled in bait hunting, 13 per cent in field protection hunting and 14 per cent in drifting dogs. There are also studies that clearly show that 17 hours of wake hunting per shot wild boar is required for bait hunting. Undoubtedly, the most important issue is to make the bait hunt more effective. It does not work, Madam President, if the neighbour feeds large quantities of feed in the neighbouring property and disturbs the whole of the local picture and how it moves. Madam President, I would like Instead of being able to make a real difference for those landowners, farmers and homeowners who get their land and crops trampled down here, the bourgeois fall into nonsense and ugly play. We will later vote in this House on order and rule in the game management. The Centre Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats can still save their reputation by abstaining and indirectly supporting our reservation. You would get many farmers to make their thumbs up and say: That was well done! But it remains to be seen. If you vote in favour of the majority text, you will actually reduce the work of two governments, which has been going on for over six years. Madam President, I would like I would like to end by calling on all those who have their crops destroyed by wild boars or other wild game and homeowners who have their gardens destroyed to send the bill to the Center Party. It is they who bear the greatest responsibility if the government proposal falls today.
i-db94adc14a224b26-418	Madam President, I would like So we are here today to debate hunting issues, a bill called wild boar and wilful damage. The Borg, together with the Swedish Democrats, have pushed through two announcements. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Of course, I am also in favour of reservation 2, but for time winning, I am only in favour of one. So we are here to debate hunting issues. These are issues that often involve this committee, where we often have strong opinions. However, I did not think that we would stand and debate each other on these very issues, because here we have previously agreed. Like Mr Isak From, we have presented three parts of this bill. Some are about feeding, which is the part I'm going to talk about most. We also have some on camera surveillance with bait cameras, and, as Isak From said, this work has been transferred from the committee to a study on camera surveillance, law enforcement and privacy protection. That investigation has had extended time to sort out these complex issues, and I can agree that it is nonsense to keep making announcements on an issue that is actually being worked on and where good positions will emerge that are also sustainable. When there are so many complex issues that cut through so many areas, we need to have a solid basis. We also have a third part on urgency in dealing with appeals for predators. The current government has taken up that part of the policy to put order in the hunting issue, in which we are trying to bring together the former government's sammelsurium of different parts into a straight line. There are no differences of opinion there either. When it comes to feeding, it's very strange for me to stand here and talk against each other. This is an issue that is about making things easier for farmers, getting things right and getting a modern regulatory framework in place. We should be in agreement here. But we are not, despite the fact that the proposal to tackle the feeding of wild game, especially wild boars, comes from the Hunting Act investigation that began under the previous government. Our government took on this work, and it was further processed. It has been adapted to the re port proposals. It has been in the Council of Ministers, and it has become the best possible proposal based on all these interests, with the exception of some: the great capital and the large landowners. Now the bourgeois parties have listened to the scare of the Moderates and turned their coats after the wind. You look at the big capital and vote against it instead of looking after everyone's good. The wild boars, which this is mainly about, have increased rapidly in Sweden. We have over 175 000 wild boars today, and in some parts of the country they increase by 30% a year. So they have an enormous reproductive capacity. It is pleasing in many ways. We have brought natural land workers back into the fauna. The wild boars do a very good maintenance work. It's a good, hunting game and good food. As we have heard, it gives a good return and can bring some money to the countryside in the form of experiences, hunting and even free soil preparation. But wild boars also cause a lot of confusion. We have enormous damage to both forestry and arable crops. In 2014, a survey showed that wild boar is the species that causes the greatest damage to crops except oats, for there the moose is the worst. Two years ago, wild boars destroyed 42 700 tons of grain. It is huge amounts, and it is not just about economics. It is also about all the work done and, of course, also about the psychological suffering of the person who has invested in all this and had his life's work destroyed. This also affects how agriculture works. In the same study, one in four farmers replied that they do not have the crops they would like to grow because they know these are destroyed. The land is also not used optimally, and then you do not get the best yield. Locally there are growers s if have completely stopped with both pea r and autumn oilseed rape. As I said, this is a major problem for farmers. Of course, there are those who make money from wild boars. Feeding wild boars so that they increase and we get a larger population than the ground has bearing capacity to give a large amount of game to hunt on. We get a greater tribe than nature itself would allow, and there will be conflicts. The animals don't stay in one place. The animals belong to us all, until they are shot, and if they eat on a farm and then go and destroy on another farm it is of course very, very difficult. The wild boars also cause enormous damage to traffic. Last year we had over 4,000 traffic accidents involving wild boars. These are great economic values, but they also bring enormous suffering to the individual affected. For the Green Party, it is obvious that there should be ecosystem-based game management and that it should be included in having no larger game strains than the bearing capacity on the ground. If a strain must be extracted to be maintained, it is not in balance. Management must be based on the ecosystem. What's the ground look like? How many predators are there? What are they eating? What is the age distribution? What's the best thing? Then you make your hunting withdrawal. Traffic is also important. Everyone realizes that feeding rules are needed. I am therefore surprised that the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, are opposed to the proposal. It is a proposal that would benefit all farmers, the public, the traffic situation – by far the vast majority but a few who live well by raising wild boars and selling the hunt expensively as well as the people who pay dearly to hunt wild boars. I think the announcement is just making things harder and stalling. I met with representatives of the LRF on Monday. They were devastated by the outcome. The parties voting against the proposal owe an answer to Sweden's farmers, road users and the public who have their villa gardens destroyed. This also applies to other hobbies. Football fields, golf courses and tennis courts are destroyed – at great cost. I hope that there will be a change in how you intend to vote today so that the issue can be overcome. A slightly stressed objection is that bait hunting would be made more difficult. No, it wouldn't. It is clear in the bill that it would make the feeding of birds more difficult. It is not just cloven-hoofed game, it must be wild. There is good reasoning both from the consultation bodies and in the proposal on how to formulate the proposal. It's from what the government has written its bill.
i-db94adc14a224b26-438	Madam President, I would like One background to today's debate is that there is a rapidly growing wild boar strain in Sweden. Today there are more than 175 000 wild boars in Sweden. A few decades ago, the population was almost none at all. The staff reproduces at a rate of 30 percent per year. It is an extremely rapid growth. As has been pointed out earlier in the debate, the large stock of wild boars poses major problems around Sweden. The accidents in traffic have been mentioned. There are about 4,000 accidents involving approximately the same number of boars every year. There will be great damage to people, animals and agriculture. Emma Nohr én spoke earlier about the 40 000 tonnes of cereals that are destroyed every year because wild boars are pouting and destroying for farmers. Farmers must adapt what they grow because there may be so much wild boar in the area. The damage to the forest is also widely known, as well as damage to recreation and other activities. One reason why the wild boar population is growing so fast is that there are limited but apparently very vocal interests that want high populations of wild boars. Not least, it is already wealthy landlords who can sell hunting rights to hunt wild boars. Populations can increase by simply feeding the animals – feed r – so that the animals come back and become easy to hunt. If you are a rich landlord or a trigger-happy hunter, you may find this pleasant, but for almost everyone else in society this has very negative consequences. Now there have been investigations. It has been a long process for dealing with the problem. The government recently put forward a proposal with proposals to gain control over feeding. The Government shall be able to prohibit the feeding of wild animals, but where justified exemptions shall be granted. Sometimes there may be reasonable reasons for feeding animals. I thought we would agree relatively on the matter in this House. Something has to be done. But judge my surprise when I saw the proposal from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. This means that the well-prepared proposal from the government, that is to say, to get control of the situation and reduce the amount of damage, will not be implemented after the vote at 3.30 p.m. 4 this afternoon. I would like to ask the Moderates, the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats a few questions. With your proposal, therefore, to do nothing at all, do you think there will be fewer road accidents involving wild animals? With your proposal, therefore, to do nothing at all, will the damage to agriculture be reduced? With your proposal, therefore, to do nothing at all, will the damage in the forest be reduced? If the answer to the three questions is no, you really should consider how you vote this afternoon. I am in favour of reservation 1, which states that we are opposed to the proposal by the citizens and the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like There is one more issue on the subject that I would like to raise, namely that there is once again a proposal from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats to no longer have to ask for permission to have camera surveillance in the forest. By setting up a camera in the forest, those who want to hunt wild animals can easily see when wild animals enter the area. Then you can go hunting them. To set up such a camera today requires permission. There have been approximately 700 permits issued for camera surveillance, but everyone knows that the number of cameras around our forests is far greater. There's talk in one place about tens of thousands of cameras out in the woods. I think that camera surveillance – and this is also the way it is formulated in Swedish law – is a restriction of personal privacy. That is something we should be restrictive about. That is precisely why you have to apply for a permit to put up a camera in a public place. I think that the forest should be a place that should generally be free from mass surveillance. You should be able to go out into the woods and know that you are completely alone, that there are no camera lenses that zoom in what you do out in the woods. That is why I am so concerned about the proposal by the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. This afternoon there will be a vote on a proposal in which you want to remove the requirement for permission for camera surveillance and just open all the dampers so that there will be thousands more cameras around the forest. I am particularly addressing the Liberals and the Center Party. You have previously kept a high profile on privacy issues. What happened to the fight against mass surveillance? Why should there be camera surveillance in the large scale of our forests? You owe the answer.
i-db94adc14a224b26-450	Madam President, I would like Hunting and game conservation has a long tradition in Sweden and has been a road to successful interaction between humans, animals and nature. Today, we in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture are debating some of these issues from the proposal Wild boar and wild game damage. The proposal covers a broad area, which is one of the reasons why the issue is complicated to deal with in this House. I will therefore explain why the Alliance and the Moderates have taken the position we have taken. We choose to send the bill back to the government. We have heard the representatives of the government here blacking out the opposition in every way. In order to understand the matter better, a little pre-knowledge of what has happened up to now is required. There are problems with a wild boar strain that grows, in some parts of the country quickly and completely out of control. Wildlife damage to land and forest costs the individual farmer tens of thousands of SEK and causes problems and increased costs also for the individual in gardens and for municipalities in public places. We in the Alliance take this problem very seriously. That is also why the Alliance government set up a hunting team investigation when it saw the need for reform in this area. We set up an ambitious hunting team investigation back in 2012. The aim was to make the legislation modern, systematic and effective. In addition, an additional directive came in the following year to allow for exemptions from the permit requirement for surveillance cameras in game surveillance. When the Red Green Government took office in 2014, it decided to suddenly close the J Act investigation before it was completely closed. However, there was time for a partial report, from which pieces have been taken to the bill. Why the government chose to close the J Act investigation we can only speculate on. It's still shrouded in mystery. It is clear that important societal problems remain unresolved for the Red-Green Government. However, to present a forward-looking and incomplete proposal that raises more questions than clarification is irresponsible and does not benefit the country. Mr President, I would like to The bill presented by the red-greens is about three different parts. The part that has attracted most attention is the issue of feeding wild game, but the bill also deals with court proceedings and video surveillance of wild game. I will touch on those parts of the bill where there is a dividing line between us and the government. Ever since the bill came this summer, the Minister for Rural Development has had to go out into the media and explain what it is really aimed at, but above all what it is not aimed at. It says a lot about how many questions the bill raises and leaves unanswered. We want to tackle the avenues of feeding, but clear legislation is needed. For example, quantities of cereals and maize do not belong in the forest, and this could be much better regulated than it is today. However, the government's proposal for a solution goes beyond what we want. The aim is to introduce general bans. Moreover, they are unclear and imprecise, which risks causing confusion and doing more harm than good in practice. The proposal proposes that the authority designated by the government should be able to impose a general ban on feeding or conditional feeding. This risks causing problems for both landowners and hunters who manage game conservation in a good way with diversion and support feeding. In a proposal to regulate feeding, it is important to take into account different types of game and different types of feeding and baiting. It is also important to take into account the value of the game, as erosion of property rights makes it difficult to use. There are better ways to access the avariants of feeding than general prohibitions and interferences in property rights. We advocate legislation based on freedom under responsibility and not detailed regulation by ignorant politicians or unclear administrative tasks that cannot be implemented in practice. To mention some of the things that such a far-reaching ban on feeding could prevent, I can mention bird feeding in winter, the edges of the field that the farmer leaves unharvested and the landscaped wetland that is good for biodiversity that we all think is important. The definition of feeding is also important when the small moonlight farmer sets up a hunting tower at his field and suddenly gets convicted of illegal bait. It doesn't make sense. It is not just us here in Parliament who see problems with the bill. LRF, the Swedish Landowners' Association and the Swedish Hunters' Association have also criticised the proposal. In a joint letter, they agree that the proposal should be revised with a view to clearly specifying the legal framework in the legislative text. Mr President, I would like to Another part of the bill that we also disagree with the government on concerns the monitoring of wild game. Today, permission is required to set up a game camera. We want to create an exemption from the authorisation requirement by introducing a notification obligation afterwards. The government does not agree and sees no point in moving on with this. We in the legislature must make it easy to do the right thing. Today tens of thousands of game surveillance cameras are sold, but only a few are registered. That suggests something's wrong. Unnecessary and routine monitoring is in no way good, but under controlled conditions where there is a clear purpose, monitoring can be beneficial. It is therefore sad that the government chooses to ignore the announcement made by the legislature. That is why we now want to send the question back to the government. The red-green government parties are saying in this House what the Minister for Rural Development has said in the media: that we in the Alliance are failing the countryside by sending back the bill. There can be no more errors. It's not our fault that the government leaves a sloppy bill that doesn't go hand in hand. On the matter, we are fairly in agreement, but we cannot make decisions that cannot be implemented out there. Surely we must agree on this here in the legislature. A sloppy bill like this might say more about government cooperation than it does on the subject. We think it is irresponsible to hand over a bill to the Riksdag which is a desk product that should never have left Rosenbad. We think it is important to see the real societal problems and find real solutions that actually work. The government's policy is anti-rural in an incredible number of ways. This bill is just one in a series of bad proposals that the red-greens submit to Parliament. That is why, Mr President, we are sending the bill back to the government in order for it to redo and do the right thing. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety.
i-db94adc14a224b26-470	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for your speech. Thank you, too, for the clarity, in any case, of the importance of ownership for the action of the Alliance. The landowners' referrals are clearly followed. You don't follow LRF's first referral. At the end, Åsa Coenraads calls the bill a desk product. As I said in my speech, it was prepared by the J Act investigation and was in principle ready on the government table when the government took office – apart from the fact that the previous government had forgotten to take note of the views of the referral bodies on how supervision could work and what could be done. There's one thing this government has brought in. Then Åsa Coenraads feels that it suddenly becomes unclear. Then, Åsa Coenraads, remains that the basic problem is that the Moderates and the Alliance say they do not have confidence in the Swedish authorities. This is such a specific issue that it is particularly important to decide regionally so that the county boards can actually exercise supervision and make regional balances. When we adjusted, we tried to get to grips with this. We announced that we could agree to a joint writing and an announcement to the government. But the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats are calling for paragraph 1 to be rejected! It is quite important, Mr President, to take part in the further debate.
i-db94adc14a224b26-473	Mr President, I would like to Isak From from the Social Democrats resorts to breast tones, and this is usually done when arguments fail. We did not give up incomplete proposals from the Alliance Government. One of the reasons why this was not a concrete piece of legislation was that the case was not finished. I had expected more from a government-supporting party like the Social Democrats than that they would give up such an incomplete bill as this actually is. We also think that it is a problem with the feeding that is done in large quantities out in nature and does not need to be done in that way. But we need to specify what is feeding and what is bait and how it should be done. Confidence in the authorities requires clear legislation, where the legislator points to what the authorities should do and not do. This proposal gives the authorities and individual users a preference for interpretation in terms of how to proceed, and I do not think it is worthy of giving up such a proposal in this House. We think this is a problem. We want to do something about it. But it is not we who have tabled a sloppy bill, and so we return it to the government and ask you to do it again and do it right.
i-db94adc14a224b26-478	Mr President, I would like to The thing is, Åsa Coenraads, that you should stand in two foreheads at the same time. You want to make the landowners happy, and the property rights are transferred to all other legislation and will decide whether I, as a landowner, have the right to feed a large amount of game that tramples down the neighbor's and the tenant's crops and tramples down or eats up the summer stuger's gardens. That is the balance you are making and the actual difference that this is all about. Then you state that it is carelessly written and can be interpreted this or so. Yes, just as I said in the speech: N i does not have confidence in the Swedish authorities, and therefore you do not have confidence in the Swedish model either.
i-db94adc14a224b26-480	Mr President, I would like to To whom is the bill actually written? We would say that it is written to the general public: those who live in nature, use nature and actually die in all the traffic accidents caused by the game. To tackle all of this, we need clear legislation, and the legislation that the government has given up is not clear. We therefore ask you to repeat it and come back to Parliament so that we can have a decision. We have great confidence in people out in Sweden. We have great confidence in the authorities out there. However, we do not have much confidence in a government that is constantly giving up sloppy written proposals in this House. We'll get back to you.
i-db94adc14a224b26-483	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Coenraads and the Moderates say that it is important to do the right thing, but when it comes to setting up cameras out in the woods, the Moderates obviously do not think that one should wait for an investigation that looks at this and some other monitoring issues. I wonder why it was so urgent that we should already have an announcement here and now that it should no longer be subject to authorisation to put up a camera in the forest. I mentioned this because I have read your motion and I feel that it is unclear what the purpose is. You're talking about how good it is with cameras in the woods, and then you can see how wild animals move, and scientists can use the material and so on. But, as I understand it, the cameras should only be set up at baits, that is, where animals are fed. Maybe Coenraads can shed some light on that. From the speaker's seat we now heard a whole new argument from the Moderates, namely that there are already tens of thousands of cameras in the forest. They're set up without a permit, which is why we need to remove the permit requirement. That seems to me to be a very illogical or wrong reasoning. It would be like saying that there are already so many who drive 130 on 110 roads, so we have to allow people to drive 130. Don't the Moderates think it's important to strike a balance between personal integrity – the will and the desire not to be watched – and the reasonableness of sometimes being able to set up a camera?
i-db94adc14a224b26-486	Mr President, I would like to The issue of game surveillance is not at all a matter of mass surveillance, as the Left Party is happy to say. It is about being able to facilitate the hunt for mainly wild boar but also, just as Jens Holm raised in his line, about being able to conduct research in a good, simple and fast way. We in the Alliance are seeing a social problem. We also see simple solutions to that problem. We come up with concrete proposals, as we have done in a previous announcement. Now we see that the government does not want to do what the legislature has said, and we are therefore making another announcement about exactly the same thing. Today, the permits are very expensive, and it is quite complicated to get permits for cameras. We therefore believe that it would be much easier to introduce a registration obligation for cameras for a much cheaper money under the proposal. This is about making it easier for our citizens in Sweden to do the right thing.
i-db94adc14a224b26-489	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for Åsa Coenraads. One question I'm going to have to ask again, because I didn't get an answer to it. It concerns the new argument that we heard from the speaker's chair: that there are already tens of thousands of cameras set up in our forests and that we must therefore authorise them or remove the permit requirement. How, Åsa Coenraads, could it be that this was an argument for you? Do not the Moderates think it is important that the balance that is being struck today in the 8th Section of the Camera Surveillance Act between personal integrity on the one hand and the desire to set up a camera on the other? I would like to remind you that 700 times have been said that a camera can be set up. But don't the Moderates think it is important that this balance can be struck? Then the argument is that thousands of cameras have already been set up in the forest, so to speak, a non-argument. Then we get another argument, namely that the films recorded in the forest should be used in research. I would like to ask Åsa Coenraads how long you should be able to use the material recorded with the cameras out in the woods. Don't the Moderates think there should be a limitation, again based on personal integrity?
i-db94adc14a224b26-492	Mr President, I would like to Law is passed and will be followed – on this I hope we agree in this House. Today we can see that tens of thousands of cameras are sold in stores, via the Internet and in different ways, but we do not know where they are. However, we know that there are about 700 permits for cameras. Where do all these cameras go? I guess they're in the woods somewhere, and then you can ask yourself why. Well, probably because you want to use them precisely for game surveillance. We also see that we need good game monitoring to be able to shoot more wild boars, because that is a major problem in society. I hope that answers Jens Holm's one question. The second question is: What are the films to be used for, and why should we record for research purposes? I would like to take one example, namely the raccoon dog project that we have had in Sweden. There we have been able to stop this invasive species, which was about to attack Sweden on many fronts. It is a successful project where game cameras have played a major role. We can talk a lot about this. It is interesting that the Left Party, which supports the Government's proposal, also supports the very careless proposal submitted to Parliament. I think this says more about the policy of the Left Party than the concrete proposals that the Alliance wants from the government.
i-db94adc14a224b26-496	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that the Swedish Democrats support all the positions of the committee in the report we are discussing here today. The government's proposed feed ban is poorly designed and leaves old problems unsolved, while creating new problems with a feed ban that give rise to legal uncertainty and scope for different interpretations. There is an imminent risk that the ban will lead to widely differing assessments of what is feeding on a case-by-case basis. It is not clear from the proposal text how all this should be dealt with in practice. On the other hand, balanced feeding can reduce both the number of road accidents involving wild game and crop and forest damage. Like a majority of the consultation bodies, the Swedish Democrats agree that today's requirement for a permit for monitoring wild boars at bait should be replaced by a requirement for notification and that camera monitoring should then be used from evening to morning. This creates incentives and conditions for a more efficient hunting. Surely that is the spirit of this – that we should find out how to shoot the wild boar tribe in the best way. Then let's not remove the incentives for hunting. As I said, we are critical of the direction of the bill. We believe that it is completely wrong to prevent local damage with a national decision. Wildlife damage occurs very locally. For example, I have never seen a wild boar in my area in Värmland, even if they are in the Väner area. Regulating how landowners can use their land in a state framework can never be the right way to go. However, an extra responsibility lies of course with the landowner who feeds the game. To regulate the game by hunting is the hunter's responsibility. It is also the best and most viable way to reduce crop damage. Mr President, I would like to The bill raises a number of legitimate questions. Could increased conflicts be the result of the bill? Prosecution, compliance and control – how should it be handled? Does it lead to gossip, reports and threats? What about the semblance between landowners and hunters in the neighborhood? It can create deep conflicts that make hunting cooperation over large areas impossible, which is necessary, among other things, to regulate the wild boar tribe. Local conflicts are not desirable. The need to agree on the amount and type of breeding, game management targets and the size of game tribes, in dialogue, hunters, farmers and other landowners, must nevertheless be the most important thing. Feeding should be done with reasonable amounts, good ethics and the right feed. As I said, national legislation for local problems does not solve any problems. Mr President, I would like to In a separate opinion, the Swedish Democrats have also clarified that cases and cases relating to protection and licensing of large predators should be dealt with promptly with priority in court. Decisions on protective hunting, aimed at preventing damage to predator attacks, require rapid decisions. The decision on an appeal for a licence requires an urgent procedure in order for the courts to decide on the cases before the beginning of the hunt. Today's legal system has proved to be flawed, which in itself has delayed the decision of the authorities to appeal so long that the short hunting season will already end once the case has been decided by the courts. This not only raises concerns for affected animal owners, but also damages confidence in the entire legal system when government decisions cannot be enforced. We have seen this in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2016. We in the Swedish Democrats do not want the same legal circus as regards education that has become the gloomy reality of the contested government decision on the hunting of wolves.
i-db94adc14a224b26-506	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the report by the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment contains three parts. The first part deals with court proceedings. I see that part as part of the answer to the issues that have been around for quite a long time in terms of how predator management should be in our country. Now that the situation is as it is, after the court hearings that have been, I think that the government has come up with a good proposal in this part. It is certainly possible to develop it further, but it will have to do at the moment. The second part of the report deals with wild boar and game damage. I thought I'd come back to that part after mentioning the third part, namely camera surveillance. It has been pointed out by previous speakers here that there are probably tens of thousands of surveillance cameras – we should well describe them as illegal – in our country today, because there are no more than over 700 permits to set up this type of surveillance cameras. It is an established part of, among other things, the hunting practice of using surveillance cameras to monitor the wild. Then I think it is reasonable that there is also a regulatory framework that allows people to live a legal life. I find it amazing that the government has not yet been able to come up with a proposal that can regulate this frequent phenomenon today. I assume that the work announced today by the majority representatives will be speeded up. However, the large part of the report deals with wild boar and wild game damage. I was part of a government that set up the investigation called the Hunting Act investigation. In fact, that investigation was not allowed to finish. The current government apparently felt that these issues were not of the importance of wanting to complete a work that had been going on for several years. In that way it was, you might say, thrown into the lake. I find it astounding, as I have said in some previous debate, that an ongoing investigation into an issue that is of great concern to a great many people in our country was not carried out. It was throwing work and thus public money into the lake to finish the work that had been going on for such a long time. I set up this investigation – I speak in my own form, because I was responsible for the appointment – partly because the hunting legislation as such was out of date. It has its foundations in the 1930s. But I also did it because we have wildlife damage in our country. It is wildlife damage that affects agriculture and its crops, but also the forest, forestry, traffic and so on. And I did it because in the government that I was part of, we took these injuries very seriously. What we wanted was to get a consensus from the various stakeholders involved in these issues. I can now see that the consensus we sought has actually been shared with us. All of us who are now in this House have been given a piece of paper that has been written together on how to get it on the subject that is under a huge debate today. It is a paper in which the National Federation of Farmers – LRF –, the Landowners' Association and the hunters have agreed on how they want the design of the rules that will regulate this matter. To this, however, I think we should add that there are already two legislations which, in any case, indirectly regulate this. I'm on 3rd of chapter. The earth's beam is worded as follows: I think that this must form the basis for how landowners and property owners are towards each other. In other words, the same thing is expressed in the environmental code, which I also refer to as a fundamental piece of legislation in our country. This must in some way, I think, form the basis for supplementary legislation that may be needed in our society. Why, then, has this become a necessity? Yes, Mr President, as has been pointed out several times, the wild can cause damage. However, legislation that already exists today has to take proper account of the environment – nothing else. Then it is a question of balancing things, and I do not think that the government has done so in this case. For example, it has not been taken into account what happens to all the game fields that exist. Are they to be sprayed down, plowed up or not to be used? The question of what happens when someone forgets to harvest a crop has not been raised. Should a government agency go out, Mr President, and harvest or destroy the clover, the wild field or the forgotten crop? Or how do you do it? In addition, the legislation, as proposed, is very general. I shall not take the time of the House to discuss it further, because previous speakers have done enough. With this speech, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal in this report.
i-db94adc14a224b26-517	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Erlandsson for his speech, although I could not hear him clarify why he has turned. When Eskil Erlandsson appointed the Hunting Act investigation and actually worked out the whole basis for the proposal that is now on our table, it was just as both I and Eskil said: There are large feedings that are not taken care of. We already have the earth beam, just as Eskil Erlandsson reported. We have environmental and health protection legislation in the environmental code, which can also be used but which is not used. We were probably both quite agreed that there was a need for action in this area. And if we were a little uncertain about what was here, there was the opportunity to make a joint announcement to the government. But Eskil Erlandsson and his party are in fact calling for the rejection of paragraph 1 of the motion. We are calling for rejection, because we do not want any regulation of the wrong feeding that is going on. And you send in various forms of doubt: It is unclear written, you do not have confidence in the authority and so on. It looks very different around the country. That is why I have felt it is good that the County Administrative Board should be given real influence over this. We could have agreed on that. If there is to be something, then supervision must also work.
i-db94adc14a224b26-521	Mr President, I would like to The reason why the government normally legislates in our country is that the government prepares preparations. Parliament legislates very rarely. During the years I have been part of the Riksdag, it has happened on some occasion, not even once a year. This is because the Riksdag does not have the opportunity to prepare a government. That is why, in the situation we were in when we received the incomplete material from the government, we said: we must reject it. Then came the letter from the Swedish Farmers' Federation – LRF – the Landowners' Association and the Hunters' National Association, where they had agreed. It is about what we have expressed in our motion that has now been agreed. As I understand it, through their Federal Presidents and the equivalent, there is agreement on this.
i-db94adc14a224b26-522	Mr President, I would like to Eskil Erlandsson tells us what the heel is. The reason is rather that Eskil Erlandsson has now fallen back to listening more to the Landowners' Association than to his former organisation LRF. There should be a discussion between the members of the LRF about it. It is quite clear that in September the LRF attributed this to all of us and thought that this was quite good. After the Alliance had awakened its motion, a joint letter came. When the exercise was public and put on the table of the Riksdag, a letter came. The Chairman of the LRF must respond to this with regard to his members. That is not something we can take in the debate here. But it's a fact. The government's proposal was rejected. Everything here is about wanting to put a stop to the government, which wants to regulate the illegal and unhealthy feeding. It is based on the Landowners' Association's proposal to be able to feed large quantities of game and sell for expensive money. Eskil Erlandsson has clearly taken a stand in this House in favour of the strong landowner's appellate against the weak farmers. That is the facts of the House today. The fact is that the Alliance has called for a rejection of the government's proposal to bring order. The facts are also that Eskil Erlandsson has changed his knee. In the past, he may have been on the LRF's lap, but now he's on the Landowner's knee.
i-db94adc14a224b26-524	Mr President, I would like to I'm not on anyone's lap. I stand for the values that I have built up for myself over the years. One of the fundamental values for me is resourcefulness in ownership. The reason for that is that I know that you care and care for what you own. Then there is an environment, and it should also be cared for. The legislator, the Swedish Parliament, has said that we should take reasonable account of this environment. This principle has led me in this debate too. It concerns the small farmer as well as the larger landowner. Both are obliged to take the environment into account. I assume that we can talk to each other, as has now been demonstrated by the proposal we have all received. However, in my view, it is not possible to legislate on this directly in Parliament. It should and should be the responsibility of a government.
i-db94adc14a224b26-527	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for the two reservations to be rejected. I would like to raise the issue of urgency in court. I went back and checked what the Liberals and myself said in May when we discussed hunting and game conservation. I note that we said at the time that the Supreme Administrative Court had rejected appeals against these decisions. We have to make decisions so that the function will be as it was intended and so that these issues can be settled quickly before the hunting season starts. Therefore, I now note that it is a good thing to include a paragraph in the Hunting Act that targets for large predators should be dealt with urgently. This applies to the Administrative Court of Luleå and also the Administrative Court of Appeal. It is important to follow up on this change in legislation so that in practice it really becomes what we have planned. The idea is that these targets should be decided on the substance before the hunting period begins for licence hunting and protective hunting. On this point, we agree that this is a good thing, but we must follow it up so that it works in practice. It should also be able to do so – conditions exist. Mr President, I would like to We also agree that, on certain occasions and in certain places, there is a direct false feeding of wild game. Above all, it concerns cloven-hoofed game. We may discuss most wild boars, but it is also about other animals. This leads to unacceptable damage to agriculture and forestry. We have talked about damage to gardens, and not least wildlife accidents are an issue that is relevant to many people, given the tragedies that follow in the wake of these. The reality of the problem that we are going to solve is probably not very different. That is why I think we should use the upper hand of this debate as to whether we should have a different picture of the problem or whether there is a problem or not. From the Liberals' and the Alliance's side, we have clearly indicated that there are clear reasons for it to be possible to ban improper wild game feeding. The problem is that the bill we have received from the government is far too far-reaching and unprecist. That is why the discussion and the questions that have come up here are twisted to the effect that this would be about doing nothing at all. It is not at all about that; it is about doing it in a different way. By proposing – as the government is now doing – legislation based on general bans, which then decide on exceptions based on local considerations, there is a risk of overcoming the target. This is not the solution. This way of dealing with legislation is definitely in danger of resulting in an increased number of legal processes. It must nevertheless be possible to appeal against all these decisions. Neither game conservation nor the actors involved benefit from this. Jens Holm's claim that it is about doing nothing at all is completely wrong. The fact that we say no and want to reject the bill in this part – which Isak From creates drama – is because it is the way we have to work when we send back a bill to get a new proposal back from the government. We have also highlighted our starting points: we want the proposal to be clearer, more precise and to provide a clearer framework for what legislation should look like. This should be about being able to issue a ban on feeding cloven-hoofed game when other solutions do not prove possible and when there is significant damage. As I said, it is a clear framework. Furthermore, we think it should be made clear that a ban should apply in limited areas and for a limited period of time. Some organisations have become bats in the debate. We can see that there may also be interest from these organisations in having a consensus on this issue. It is not surprising that the LRF, the Landowners' Association and the Swedish Hunters' Association sit down and discuss a common line. This is also something we have had to present to us. I do not think we should use these actors as bats in the political debate. Instead, it can be said that they have come up with a line that is quite consistent with the line we are now putting forward as proposals. I think that the government should also be able to shoulder its responsibilities in this regard and urgently – to use this word here too – come back with a bill containing the changes that we are proposing. I am convinced that the most effective way of getting this legislation in place is for us now to say no to the proposal in the bill and send it back to the government, which then receives a clear message from the Riksdag about how to have the legislation designed. The government can then come back with a new proposal. The fact that Isak From makes such a big issue that this is about rejecting, that we do not even see the problem and that we do not want to do anything at all, I can think in this context is quite strange. When it comes to licensing and reporting for camera surveillance, I will not say so many words. It was discussed about the fact that there are permits for 700 cameras. I can't verify that number, but if anyone says there are 10,000 cameras out in the woods, I guess I'll have to hope that's true. It shows that we have a system that we have lost control of. It must be urgent that we have a system that actually works and over which we have control. This definitely has to do with personal integrity – we can't have as many cameras out in the terrain as we don't have control over.
i-db94adc14a224b26-543	Mr President, I would like to Last summer I visited Lillhärdal in southern Härjedalen, a village where I grew up. I spoke to a man from Dalarna who told me that people in Älvdalen were amazed and upset. They wondered who picked up times had destroyed the village road that you would drive on. It was dug up with large ditches, and you looked at each other in a way and wondered who it might be. The answer came when one night a driver suddenly discovered that a wild boar was piling up the road covered with oil gravel, which apparently contains salt that the wild boar likes. From this story we understand that wild boars are found not only in Skåne and Central Sweden but also in Norrland. In addition, we understand that wild boars not only cull fields, grasslands, villa gardens, golf courses and cemeteries, but also roads covered with oil gravel. Wild boars also account for a large number of wildlife accidents in traffic, some 3,000 a year or some sixty a week, which is very extensive. We can see that wild boars cause damage for millions of dollars each year. It is clear that the boar tribe in Sweden has increased rapidly for a number of years, and many speakers here today have said so. No one knows for sure how many there are, but it has been estimated, as we have heard here earlier today, that there are 175 000. I have also seen figures of 250 000 and 350 000 animals in Sweden. Instead of putting gunpowder into trying to ensure that as many wild boars as possible are pushed, I think that the government pushes over the target when you come up with its proposal, which we think should be referred back, and we think you should come back with a better proposal. The distinction between what on the one hand is feeding and, on the other hand, diversion from roads, crops and baits is difficult to draw. But it is true that degenerative species with an extensive feeding of wild boars lead to more cults. But, as I said, who decides where the line goes between diversion, bait and feeding? As Eskil Erlandsson said before: If anyone forgets to take their potatoes out of the soil, is it to be regarded as feeding? The government proposes a general ban on summer time, while the problem is above all great winter time. We want to get to the extensive feeding, the avariants. But as I said, the government is pushing the target. In addition, the favourable weather this year has led to the production of extra ollon in beech and oak, which usually leads to the birth of considerably more cults. Thus we can expect the wild boar tribe to grow in number unless the shooting increases. So how do you increase the launch? There's an investigation that also brought up the option of shooting money. But I think it's far better to let the market take care of this. The reason why the switch-off so far has not been sufficient is to a large extent difficult to reach consumers easily with the meat. Therefore, there is a need to review the current barriers to making wild boar meat more accessible to the restaurants and to the shops' meat counters. The model that exists in Germany is worth looking at and may serve as an inspiration. They do not, as in Sweden, require that wild boar meat must first pass through game handling facilities before it can reach the customers. Of course, the requirement for Trichinella testing should remain, but the question is whether the requirement for game handling facilities should not be removed in our country. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Food Authority has also previously investigated the issue and proposed how the rules for the management of wild boar meat could be simplified and that the hunters themselves might be able to supply smaller quantities of meat without intermediaries directly to consumers. The proposal is to maintain the requirement for Trichinella sampling in the interests of public health, but in principle the hunter would be responsible for the sampling. One argument for abolishing the requirement for a game-handling establishment could also be that it lowers the incentive for the black sale of wild boar meat. Today I googled on this and saw that you can buy wild boar meat. I strongly suspect that it is illegal trade and that the meat has not gone through a game-handling facility. The most common hunting method for wild boar is at night. However, the pursuit is made more difficult by the fact that permission is required to have camera monitoring of the bait. The removal of the permit requirement would facilitate the hunt. It is therefore regrettable that the government did not wish to make such a proposal. There is also a need for better support for traders who have suffered from wild boar injuries. Since wild boar is not a game, the affected farmer today cannot apply for compensation for lost harvest or money for fences. The Christian Democrats propose to introduce a possibility of compensation for damage caused by wild boar and other cloven-hoofed game. In these words, Mr President, I am in favour of the committee's proposal, which we have also heard has the support of the LRF, the Landowners and the Hunters' Association, and the rejection of the motions.
i-7Y1pP7Ga67tgjkCd6CoEvE	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to examine the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, TU3 Implementation of the EU directive on the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1. It is very gratifying that the government has become aware of shipping and the possibility for ships to carry goods within Sweden. The concept of inland waterways is relatively new, and not all parts are in place to trigger the traffic that we all want. Getting traffic on our inland waterways makes it possible for our roads and railways to be unloaded. The government has put forward a proposal through the EU directive on the organisation of working time, and there is not really much to say about it. What we have to point out is what Mr Seko has remarked on in substance. In short, the seamen should be forced to save their papers, including pay slips, for at least a year. We believe that it should not be an obligation and want to delete that particular part of § 13 of the bill. Otherwise, we think the bill looks good, so I will not speak much more about it.
i-db94adc14a224b26-563	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that working time regulation is now being introduced in inland shipping. The issue has not previously been regulated at either EU or national Swedish level. However, it is a problem that persons who work on board a craft that is part of a company, an individual firm, and have an F tax note should not be included in this framework. The report refers to the fact that the issue of worker relations is to be determined by an overall assessment in which the fact is to be seen from an overall perspective. You talk around this, but you don't specifically describe why you don't want to regulate working hours even for people with an F tax note. To do a good job, we need to rest and have reasonable working hours. It is an illusion that has arisen among employers in recent years that it is possible to put more pressure on workers and get more done. It's time to move the margins again. They have become too small for us to be able to have a society with high-quality public services. The society we built with strong labour law and more reasonable margins of work provided qualitative functions and greater security and quality of life for the worker. This has been eroded, and the quality of a number of areas has changed drastically since we joined the European Union. A major problem in many areas is the use of F-tax notes as a form of employment, not to have your own company. We see this in the haulage industry, and Mr Seko shows that the same problem exists in this particular area. It has been pointed out in its referral that individual firms should therefore also be included in this regulatory framework. The Left Party shares Seko's view and has therefore left a reservation. I support this reservation, No 2.
i-BZodP8pTQQ7qFjygzEz6ot	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the Committee on Transport's report 2016/ 17:TU 3 which is based on the Government proposal Implementation of the EU directive on the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal and the Government's proposal 2015/ 16:189 and reject all reservations. Mr President, I would like to The background to the proposal is the conclusion in 2012 of an agreement between the parties at European level in the inland waterway transport sector on the organisation of working time. It was considered that the specific working and living conditions of inland waterway transport were not sufficiently reflected in the provisions of the Working Time Directive. At the same time, it also sought to create a level playing field in the labour market for the sector and to prevent unfair competition resulting from differences in legislation on the organisation of working time. The implementation is mainly through a new Act, the Working Time Act on Inland Navigation, and through amendments to the Ship Safety Act, the Work Environment Act and the Seafarers' Rest Time Act. The new law and amendments are proposed to enter into force on 31 December 2016. The reason for introducing new legislation and not just a change in the health and safety at work law is that the Rest Time Act applies mainly only on board Swedish ships, while the Inland Working Time Directive applies within the territory of the Member State, regardless of the state in which the ship is registered. Mr President, I would like to I note that there is an interest in inland navigation in both Lake Mälaren and Lake Vänern and that it is good that the regulations are in place. In the long run, this may mean that more freight can be transferred to shipping. Trafikverket shows a good judgment here when you make it clear that you do not want the rock masses from Bypass Stockholm on the way, but they should be transported away by sea. Mr President, I would like to Stockholm University, on behalf of the Government, is investigating rules for inland waterway cabotage, and the assignment will be reported on 15 December 2016. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish Maritime Administration, in close cooperation with the Swedish Transport Administration, to analyse the development potential of inland navigation and coastal shipping in Sweden. Any obstacles to development should be identified and, if necessary, measures proposed to promote the conditions for maritime freight and passenger transport. The investigation will be completed by 31 December 2016. As the legislation for inland navigation comes into place and the Government has initiated these investigations, we further strengthen Swedish shipping.
i-db94adc14a224b26-573	Mr President, I would like to The report is about regulating working hours in the inland waterway transport sector, but it also offers an excellent opportunity to talk about inland waterway transport. We can never talk too much about shipping. From an energy point of view, shipping offers the best way to transport large volumes of goods. Shipping in general, and inland navigation in particular, has great potential for development in a country like Sweden with so much coastline and many watercourses. The transfer of freight to waterways could relieve our already heavily burdened roads and railways and contribute to the reduction of harmful emissions. After several years of work by the Alliance Government, the first basic rules for inland navigation came into place in December 2014. In a first step inland navigation was allowed on Lake Vänern via Göta River down to Gothenburg and on Lake Mälaren out to Stockholm and Södertälje canal. We in the Alliance have constantly pushed the question that inland navigation should not be burdened with a variety of special rules, but should be made a competitive mode of transport. Unfortunately, inland navigation has still not grown to the extent that everyone had hoped. This is why the Swedish Maritime Administration, in cooperation with the Swedish Transport Administration, has been tasked with analysing the obstacles to development and proposing measures to promote inland navigation. As already mentioned, the assignment must be reported by December 2016. We eagerly await the outcome. Today's debate is not as exciting. It concerns the implementation of the EU directive on the organisation of working time in inland waterway transport. In order to implement this Directive, a new Act, the Inland Working Time Act, and amendments to the Rest Time Act for Seafarers, the Safety and Health at Work Act and the Ship Safety Act have been required. We welcome the harmonisation of legislation within the EU because it ensures a level playing field. Furthermore, we believe that it is positive that self-employed workers should be excluded from the rules. Unnecessary bureaucracy has never encouraged the development of an industry. Now that we have the laws on working time for inland navigation in place, it is time to get inland navigation in place, too, for real. I support the proposal.
i-db94adc14a224b26-581	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the Education Committee's review of the European Commission's communication on a new Skills Agenda for Europe. The idea is that the Riksdag should not make any decisions other than that the statement be added to the documents. However, the views expressed in the committee's opinion will be sent to the European Commission for further work on the agenda. The Commission's proposal deals with how knowledge and skills can be strengthened in Europe and in all Member States. The Commission launches the Communication by saying that skills are the way to employability and prosperity, and that people must have the right skills to be able to work with qualified tasks and realise their potential as secure, active citizens. The Commission uses a broad definition of competence: what a person knows, understands and can do. In the global economy and the knowledge society we live in, competitiveness and innovation capacity are largely determined by the availability of knowledge and skills and the ability to develop or pool them into new skills. However, the Commission also points out that skills are crucial for social cohesion in Europe. I agree with that. Thus, in a Europe with high unemployment, growing economic gaps, major skills gaps in societies and countries or regions lagging behind, not only innovation and competitiveness but also social cohesion and stability in the Union are at risk. Europe is facing major challenges here. The Commission points out that some 70 million European citizens do not have sufficient reading and writing skills, that even more do not have numeracy skills and that the necessary digital skills are lacking today. More than half of the 12 million long-term unemployed in the EU – unimaginable figures, by the way – have a low level of education. It also points to skills shortages and skills mismatches, high unemployment and the fact that many people have jobs that do not match their skills, while 40% of employers in Europe find it difficult to find people with the skills needed for growth and innovation. It is also noted that learning is increasingly taking place outside the formal education system – at work, online, through self-training, in social and voluntary activities or through volunteering – but that this informal learning, or quiet learning, as one might call it, is rarely recognised or can be validated. This is one of the background to the need for a new Skills Agenda, and the Commission believes that significant policies and reforms in the field of education and training will be required in all Member States. The Commission is clear that each Member State decides on the content of education and training and the organisation of the education system, but believes that a joint effort is needed to achieve effective and sustainable results. The Agenda is part of a wide-ranging effort to strengthen what is called the skills base in Europe. Mr President, I would like to The Agenda contains a total of ten initiatives and will focus on three areas: skills development, skills and qualifications that are comparable between Member States and better ways of inventorying skills. The initiatives are of a variety of types and characteristics and differ in their scope. The committee has examined the Commission proposal and there is agreement on the opinion. The committee welcomes the strengthening of the skills base in Europe through cooperation. The committee notes that much is already being done at national level in the Member States. In Sweden, several national initiatives are under way that are affected by the agenda: major efforts on adult education, qualified polytechnic education, validation, guidance and work on digitalisation. Cooperation between Member States is important and there is an urgent need for exchange of experience and information in the field of education and training, particularly because EU Member States face similar challenges. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that education is a national competence, i.e. that the Member States themselves decide on the direction, content and organisation of the education system in each country. The committee also believes that the content of the agenda should focus more clearly on issues where EU action can bring added value, such as comparable qualifications and the possibility for citizens to move across borders, but also a joint effort to strengthen the role of vocational education and training in the different countries. The opinion points out that the preparation of the agenda must not lead to conflicts of objectives in relation to the Member States' own ambitions for national education and training systems. In Sweden, we have long had adult education as a regular part of the education system at different levels, including vocational training and higher vocational education. It offers great opportunities for flexible learning and for personal development and education. In Sweden, our folk high schools and all the activities within folk education and our study associations also play an important role. Mr President, I would like to I personally think that the EU document A new Skills Agenda for Europe is quite exciting and contains several interesting approaches and proposals. I find interesting the reasoning and proposals that the low-skilled should be given the opportunity to identify their existing skills and their need for upskilling. I think that the validation points and the ability to validate so-called silent knowledge, informal learning and new arrivals' knowledge are important as well as the ideas of increased quality in vocational education and training. The objective, says the Commission, is a shared commitment and vision of skills as the key to sustainable jobs, growth and competitiveness for the whole of Europe. Let me also add social cohesion – I think it is important. The task is to strike the balance between what the EU can, should and wants to do, on the one hand, and the Member States' own decision-making rights, responsibilities and ambitions for their own education systems on the other. I think that the Commission still has some work to do to clarify this balance. Finally, it is a good thing that the parliaments of the Member States can get into the debate early on on EU proposals. It was also a good initiative by the Speaker of the Riksdag to send the message to the Education Committee. As a result, we have had a good committee discussion, an examination and now an opportunity for a chamber debate on the proposal. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-db94adc14a224b26-600	Mr President, I would like to Like what Håkan Bergman said, we in the Alliance – which I represent here today – in the Committee on Education and Training would like to thank the President and the group leaders who, in consultation, decided that this issue should form the basis for a debate. So today's dossier concerns the new Skills Agenda for Europe. We think it is a good thing, because we see it as very important that Parliament is given an early opportunity to review and debate any decisions that will affect Sweden but which will be taken in the EU sphere. There's a lot of them. In various reports, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils claim that as many as 60 per cent of the decisions they make in different ways are influenced from Brussels, either through legal decisions or through recommendations where the EU has an ambition to influence. Today's report concerns the latter, which is an area in which the EU has the ambition to try to influence the Member States to increase their skills. They do so even if they do not really have the authority to do so. I will have a slightly different approach from my debater from the Social Democrats. We in the Alliance want to emphasise what the EU should engage in and what it should not engage in. That is why I will not be referring so much to what the Skills Agenda contains in substance. However, we welcome the fact that a united Committee on Education and Training has drawn attention to the fact that education is part of the so-called national competence and that the EU now has only the power to support, coordinate or supplement Member States' action in this area. So the Committee on Education and Training is marking a territory, and we are doing so with good reason. Having said that, the issues highlighted in the agenda, as well as some of the measures proposed, are important. Who can say no to the EU's desire to raise skills levels in Europe and to make European countries pay greater attention to issues such as adult education, financial support for studies and digitisation? At least Swedish politicians do not, because this is exactly what we work for and have been working for many decades. But, as I said, we want to decide on these issues ourselves. A united education committee therefore also states that the agenda should have a more clear focus on issues where the EU can actually bring added value, as Håkan Bergman said. As an example, we mention the validation of formal and informal skills, which is crucial for people moving between countries to get into studies or in employment more quickly. This is something that has so far proved so difficult, but which is even more pressing and urgent in the wake of migration. Common approaches are needed where the EU can coordinate and/ or complement Member States' efforts. But we in the Alliance believe that it would be good if Sweden could also be inspired by some issues mentioned in the competence agenda. These relate in particular to new areas highlighted by the importance of promoting entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, apprenticeships and vocational training, and increased guidance and career guidance. These are areas of improvement that were all identified and updated during the time of the alliance government and that need continued attention through a strategic and systematic approach. The Alliance in the committee also welcomes the fact that the Skills Agenda takes a holistic approach in that it highlights issues ranging from education, through enterprise policy and to integration. Unfortunately, however, it also makes the agenda sprawling and unfocused, and that should be addressed. In this context, we would also like to express our concern that the financing of further EU work on the agenda is unclear. That is why we think what is suggested in the wording that Horizon 2020, which concerns a lot of research and innovation, and Erasmus+ are expected to contribute to the funding, is very ominous. It doesn't feel right. Mr President, I would like to Finally, in the Alliance – I am speaking on behalf of the Moderates, the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats – we would like to point out that we are behind the majority text in today's report, but that we will also carefully consider our future positions as the individual acts will subsequently be discussed in committee.
i-db94adc14a224b26-612	Mr President, I would like to I also have no claim other than to add the matter to the file. As I said, it was a united committee that supported this opinion. I wanted to mention a little bit about the committee's opinion. Håkan Bergman successfully went through the skills agenda itself. I will return to it, perhaps with a slightly more critical touch. I think it was a good and balanced opinion. It is the best thing I have seen about the EU in Parliament. The document mentions the task of the EU to complement, not duplicate, activities. That's good. The funding is mentioned and is reportedly not to be charged to our national budget. Few proposals do so immediately. We are paying a fairly high European fee, and almost all the costs are indirect. I think it is a reasonable assumption that the indirect costs will also be quite small with this skills agenda. This was also demonstrated by the documents. Voluntary participation is mentioned, which is a good thing. It is pointed out that Sweden is working on many of the issues raised in the document. It sometimes feels almost as if such proposals are not really aimed at northern Europe, but at other countries that do not have an equally well-developed school system. One committee meeting raised the question of what we can learn from others and we can teach others. I don't think I'm the least Boy Scout when I say that we have little to learn from others about the school system itself – quite the opposite. We could teach others a lot. We're good at the system itself. On the other hand, with regard to the content of the system, such as the teaching itself, order and so on, we can have much to learn from some other countries. This is illustrated, inter alia, by the declining results of PISA and other similar investigations. Perhaps here we should open the door considerably more than today to certain foreign impulses. Finally, as far as our document is concerned, this is highlighted with priorities. Maybe it's more important now than we can imagine. We are losing the revenue from the UK in the EU budget. It will be a blow-off, and it will be very interesting to see how to handle it. Mr President, I would like to Let me mention a few words about the skills agenda itself. I try to be positive but may be a little more negative than Håkan Bergman. The document deals with much of what we work with all the time in our country, such as getting the unemployed into training so that they become employable and match what the labour market demands, etc. It is also pointed out that the labour market, and society as a whole, is changing. We know that, of course. If the EU pushes the Member States so that we and other Member States can match their education better, that is a good thing. But, of course, this also occurs mainly at national level. It is also stated in the Skills Agenda that the Commission should support flexible curricula. What are flexible curricula? But what if the Member States do not want it? At least that sounds like something I don't want. The same paragraph says something about innovation in teaching. It doesn't sound like anything to Swedish conditions. I don't even really know what that means. Another remarkable passage is on p. 19: The EU will assess Member States' reform efforts through country-specific analyses and by promoting mutual learning and evidence-based policy decisions. If we don't make evidence-based political decisions, then what? Are we going to be flogged in the square of Brussels, or what? We'll make whatever decisions we want here. It is simply national self-determination. I think that Europe goes too far and has a tone that is arrogant at times. It also states in the document that the EU is working towards a change in attitudes among individuals and organisations. Maybe it's necessary, especially perhaps in the British. But it can be interpreted as a bit bullying. Furthermore, the Commission and the Council report on the success of their strategy to raise education levels. That's great. The focus should now be on the quality of education – the content itself. That is quite right, and that is exactly what we should be doing in our own country as well. For once, I think that something really good has been achieved in the European Union. Of course, this must be done mainly at national level, not at European level. But if Europe can drive this positive development, I think it is great. A little further down it says: Furthermore, the European Commission believes that everyone must be able to read and write. I agree with the EU on that. You're absolutely right. It's astute. The Commission addresses the importance of vocational training. That is exactly the question that we are all working on nationally, and the government has recently put forward a bill on polytechnics. It is, moreover, a good proposal. Apparently, with universities of applied sciences, this is a European problem when it comes to matching labour market needs for properly trained workers. If we can achieve some fruitful cooperation on this, I think that is a good thing. The document states a common reference framework for professional qualifications, where people should be able to look for jobs across Europe and where qualifications should be read directly across the EU. The idea is not, in fact, entirely wrong, although we – if I remember correctly – have opposed parts of this. However, there is a glimpse in the text that very few people use this system. So we have a system that costs a lot of money but few use it. It's a huge waste of resources. Now that Brexit is at the door, we need to start prioritising. I do not know if anyone in this room has thought about it, but with Brexit a considerable part of the EU budget disappears. Have we seen any plans on how to reduce the EU budget? In conclusion, Mr President, many ideas that the EU is pushing, and many ideas in this document too, are fundamentally good. Some work reasonably well as it is intended, while others do not work in practice, due to a lot of reasons. It may be that the countries of the EU are too different in terms of their level of development. I guess that's the main reason. Some ideas look good on paper but do not work in reality. This is true in the business world too – you try ideas that don't measure up, and then you put them down. In the EU, however, ideas are being driven, because the costs are still covered and there is a desire to avoid a loss of prestige. In the end, there'll be a black hole where the money runs away. Then this proposal, together with similar proposals, seems to me to be at a European lowest level, and since Sweden is not at this lowest level, we sometimes have little to draw from it. To conclude a little positively, Mr President, I hope for successful cooperation in Europe on free trade, combating crime and the like. I think there is a lot to get for Sweden as well.
i-db94adc14a224b26-640	Mr President, I would like to Knowledge weighs heavily but is easy to carry. Once you know something, no one can take it from you. Knowledge is also the prerequisite for being able to influence a society and strengthen democracy. It is the key to a rich life, personal development and education. The ability to acquire knowledge and education is very different, depending on the country in which you live. The educational systems of different countries are structured in different ways. We live in a society where so many new things are happening at a rapid pace. New innovations are being introduced, new tools are being made available to the general public and the need for education and training is only increasing. Europe's countries face a major challenge in terms of skills and skills development. The knowledge gap has a tendency to increase, which can lead to a democratic deficit. The skills agenda we are discussing today has a total of ten initiatives. These are three horizontal areas: 中 better and more relevant skills development 中 clearer and more comparable competences and qualifications improving skills investment and documentation, as well as more informed professional choices; In Sweden, several national initiatives are underway in the areas covered by the Skills Agenda, including adult education, validation, financial support for studies, guidance and digitalisation. People need a broad range of skills in order to realize themselves in working life, leisure and society. Knowledge is crucial for prosperity, jobs, growth and lasting well-being. We in Sweden have a well-built system for people to be able to enter and exit the education systems for a long time. We have adult education in various forms, including Komvux and folk high school as an example. We also have the opportunity to study at universities and colleges far up in the ages. Education is not a European issue; each country owns it itself. However, there are significant benefits for individuals and countries in the EU with a certain degree of coordination and consensus on education and skills. Without blurring the specific characteristics of the various countries, it is possible to highlight the similarities that unite us. The development of curricula and teaching methods, closer cooperation between different educational providers, validation and recognition of informal learning can be envisaged here. The opportunities for lifelong learning and action must be inclusive and inclusive. Why, then, is a new skills agenda for Europe so important? It promotes the mobility of citizens between countries and facilitates their lifelong learning. It can help improve the quality of vocational education and training and become a toolbox to support countries in their efforts to continuously improve quality work. Here we need to facilitate cooperation with national authorities to promote validation within the EU and work to support the recognition of the skills and qualifications of migrants and refugees. We need to support the training of staff in reception centres in order to speed up the process of recognition and promote the exchange of information and working practices on knowledge and recognition of skills and qualifications. All education contributes to the individual's development and to lifelong learning, civic engagement and critical thinking. That is why we need to work and open up to better cooperation between EU countries. I support the committee's proposal in its opinion.
i-db94adc14a224b26-652	Mr President, I would like to The opportunity to discuss the EU competence agenda may sound a bit dry, but at the same time there is a real opportunity for us in the committee to share with each other how we think about competence, skills development and so on. In fact, I would like it to be more of a discussion and debate than for everyone to read out their already prepared speech. Unfortunately, you cannot ask for a reply to speakers until you have taken part in the debate yourself, but I and Daniel Riazat – who are the last on the list of speakers – may perhaps have the opportunity to discuss with each other. There are, above all, some starting points I would like to highlight today. Giving all people the opportunity to build skills, whether they are thinking of a future as an employee, entrepreneur, employee or leader, is incredibly important for Sweden's development, for Europe's development and not least for the individual's development. As a member of the Education Committee, I think that this is well some of the most important issues to discuss in this House in relation to Sweden's development. The three starting points for the EU Skills Agenda have already been mentioned. I may find it difficult to see the ten initiatives as particularly sharp all of them, but the three headings they gather under feel very important. The first is about skills development, and the second is about comparable skills – so that we also enable people to move between countries and use their skills in different countries. The third and very important part is that of skills inventory. Perhaps so far in the debate we have spent most of our time developing skills and what fantastic opportunities there are for this in Sweden, but with skills inventory it becomes immediately a little more difficult. That's what would be interesting to discuss with each other. Maud Olofsson started work with competence platforms when she was Minister of Enterprise. I think many people have come into contact with this in different ways. Around Sweden we have looked at what skills are important to us, what we lack and what we need to build on. It has provided a basis that has been used in various ways in the distribution of places at the university of applied sciences and for initiatives in municipal adult education, vocational training and apprenticeship training. Under the alliance government, the new upper secondary school was launched with clearer professional programmes than before. In the debate, our various political parties paint different images of the professional programmes and the development of skills. There has been a debate in Sweden about whether the professional programmes would not lead to higher education qualifications. Many may have attended a study programme and then not qualified for the university of applied sciences. We as political parties regardless of direction are probably inspired by creating many ways forward for children and young people in our society. The labour market for all pupils who have gone through a vocational programme is very good. Here it is particularly important to emphasise what the committee wants Sweden to continue working on, namely guidance. Therefore, it would have been a little more exciting if the representatives of the governing parties Håkan Bergman, the Social Democrats, and Elisabet Knutsson, the Environmental Party, had told us a little more about the parts we are trying to work with, for example about the guidance, and what it would mean for people in Sweden today. I think we have all paid attention to the national team and are curious about the competition that takes place in Gothenburg with Euroskills 2016 in early December. Anna Ekström met the national team just a few weeks ago, and she said, "The opportunities that exist with a degree from a professional programme are greater than many people know." ..................................................... That is why I think it is important to emphasise in the discussion here today that there are great opportunities for the future. And again: I would like to stress the importance of guidance for giving students the opportunity to make good choices. The new upper secondary school inquiry discusses whether upper secondary school should be compulsory and whether upper secondary school should give general higher education qualifications. The EU Skills Agenda talks a lot about – as previous speakers have done – entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and innovative thinking. And what does that mean? Should we not be able to strengthen professional programmes in many different ways, not just by giving general university qualifications, which also do not allow access to as many additional courses in higher education as might appear in the debate? I would like to ask the representatives of the government parties, Håkan Bergman and Elisabet Knutsson, whether it would be possible to run UF companies on more professional programmes to strengthen entrepreneurship that strengthens innovative thinking. We know that this is extremely positive. I would also like to hear a little more about this with the year of vocational training that is 2016. The government has invested 30 million, and now we are almost in November and the year has almost passed. What has been the result? What initiatives have been taken during the year to strengthen vocational training? I would also like to say something brief about the third area, skills inventory. How far have we really got in Sweden? Some fast track has been set up for trainees from different countries. However, I would like to hear a little more about how to imagine skills inventorying in the large area. Folkbildning can be an important part of carrying out the validation from the broad competence perspective that Håkan Bergman highlighted in his opening speech. It's about knowing things, doing things and understanding things.
i-db94adc14a224b26-667	Mr President, I would like to Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! It cannot have escaped anyone that the Left Party is an EU-critical party. We question how the EU is built and how it is run today. This applies from the economic system to how one sometimes crosses certain borders when it comes to national affairs. As far as the Skills Agenda for Europe is concerned, more of us have drawn attention to the fact that in some way they have tried to cross a certain line. However, I am pleased that all the members of the Education Committee have supported a strong line that clearly marks what is a national concern and what is part of the EU's mission. I would like to mention three points relating to the skills agenda which we need to follow up where we can learn from other countries and where we can get better ourselves. One point concerns the validation system. Sweden could possibly learn from other countries. If we're going to be completely honest, we've had a validation system that's been non-functioning. You can see that when you ride taxis on different work trips and when you eat at different pizzerias around the country. At all, you can see it in the social debate when you talk to different people who have a different background. It is an issue on which it is very important to cooperate with other countries, but again: it is the national responsibility to develop this work together with other countries. The second point we need to follow up is to improve the status of vocational training. I can agree with Ulrika Carlsson that the only solution is not about competence for further training. At the same time, it is one of the most important tools we can use. In general, however, much more needs to be done to strengthen vocational education and training and to increase the status of these pupils in the workplace later on. We must get rid of the class contempt that may exist against ordinary workers who may have undergone vocational training. The third point concerns privatisation. I agree with most of what the committee has written in the document. However, I cannot quite agree that the three guidelines are in line with the other political orientations of the European Union. While we are talking about strengthening the education system, strengthening validation and creating a more unified system, the EU is pursuing a line that leads to privatisation and market thinking in education, which – in my opinion and the Left – does not benefit the agenda that we have all endorsed. I would like to express my support for the proposal that the matter be added to the file and that I should like to express my criticism.
i-db94adc14a224b26-677	Honourable Members of Parliament! We have received the sad news that Parliament member Pia Hallström has died after a period of illness. I would like to express our warm condolences to Pia Hallström's loved ones: husband Per, children and grandchildren, family and friends. Pia Hallström was born in 1961 and lived in Forshaga. Before she became a member of Parliament, she was first a secondary school teacher in chemistry and biology and then became vice-chancellor at Frödingskolan in Karlstad. Pia was elected to Parliament in 2010 for the constituency of Värmland and as representative of the Moderates. During the current term of office, Pia was a member of the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council and an alternate member of the Committee on Justice and Education. Pia was also a member of the Criminal Damage Compensation Board and a deputy member of the Legal Aid Board. She has also been Chairman of the Moderata Coalition Party in Forshaga and the First Deputy Federal Chairman of the Moderata Coalition Party in Värmland and Chairman of the Moderate Women in Värmland. Pia was a member of Forshaga Municipal Council and before the parliamentary term had both municipal and regional assignments as a member of the Municipal Board, a member of the Children's and Education Board and an alternate member of the Region Värmland Regional Board. Pia was strongly involved in the work of vulnerable women and therefore worked politically with such things as violence in close relationships, honour violence and crime victims. She was passionate about these issues and was responsible for them in the Committee on Justice on behalf of the Moderates. As politicians, Pia had a thoughtful style rather than a conflict-oriented one. Her political act was constantly rooted in her strong sense of vulnerable people. She was a warm and compassionate politician who came close to people. Pias's political interest took off with the 1980 nuclear vote. Environment and energy engaged a biochemist like Pia. However, the political interest did not stop there. Pia was active on issues relating to children and young people. She worked on this both as a politician and in her professional life as a teacher and headmaster. Education policy and a good start in life for children and young people were important for Pia. As a member of the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council, Värmlandn industry, border trade issues and Nordic cooperation were also close to her. The private person Pia was interested in travelling, reading books and beautiful things – art but also fashion. She enjoyed cooking good food that family and friends often enjoyed. The apartment in Spain was a nice refuge for Pia and her family. And the family was very important to Pia. She suffered a lot about her children, and when Pia had grandchildren, she was very happy. Pia was a popular person with close to laughter, and many will miss her. She had a great deal of commitment to everything she got ahead of herself. Pia was good in all her professional roles and as a politician but also had high demands on herself. She was loyal and kept her word. Had Pia promised to do something, it was also done properly. She was able to joke about this honesty with her self-distance and glimpse in her eye – the class officer who might want to let loose at some point. Pia was also a strong person, not least in the last few years. When she became ill, it was also the beginning of a long struggle. Despite the setbacks that came, she never gave up. She was valiant and admirable in her strength, but finally her strong will was defeated. Pia Hallström has passed away too early in her life and in her work. We will remember her as a driven and highly appreciated Member, colleague and friend here in Parliament. She was a beloved wife, mother and grandmother leaving a big void behind. We are now honouring Pia Hallström's memory with a minute's silence.
