i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-0	Mr President, I would like to Every girl's body, every woman's body is her own. Girls and women should be able to move freely out, even in the evenings and nights, on the subway and in crowds, without fear of abuse. If abuse is committed and when violations occur, society should be on the victim's side. I feel a very great anger when I take note of the reports from Cologne and Stockholm. Those who are guilty should be punished, and I welcome the fact that an investigation is now going to the bottom of what has happened. What has now been revealed is part of the violence and harassment that women around the world experience every day. It is part of the hatred that we see in harassment against young women in schools and online. This makes me even more convinced that we need to work more to change the attitude of boys and men and that the fight for women's rights must continue here in Sweden and around the world. In that fight we shall stand side by side together, men and women!
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-3	Mr President, I would like to It is both anxiety and hope that characterize a world in constant change. On the one hand, the world is getting better. Nine out of ten girls and boys around the world go to school every day. Extreme poverty has halved, and technological advances and medical advances allow for a global development that few could have imagined only a few decades ago. On the other hand, and this is an equally true picture, there is growing concern with deepening wars and conflicts, decaying states and terror. Rarely have the consequences of the horrors of war been as clear as last year when some 163 000 people applied for asylum here in Sweden. We then carried out the greatest humanitarian effort in Swedish history. During a refugee crisis that literally called for joint responsibility, Sweden took the greatest responsibility in the EU. But last autumn the situation became untenable. The government has therefore taken a number of measures to reduce the number of asylum seekers in Sweden. We do what is necessary to meet both the short-term challenges of reception and the longer-term societal challenges. However, the sustainable solution still exists at EU level. In the long term, we must have a new order in Europe with an even and fair distribution of refugees. This discussion must be seriously initiated between the EU Member States. Mr President, I would like to Step by step we will now get out of the acute situation of the autumn, and then we have major societal challenges but also great opportunities ahead of us. People should not just be offered shelter over their heads. They should have the opportunity to create their own home. People should not just stay here in Sweden. They're going to study, work and support themselves. Everyone should be able to claim their right but also do their duty. We owe it to those who come to Sweden, and it is they who come to Sweden who owe it to Swedish society. We're pretty strong ahead of 2016. We have a positive economic situation. We have the fourth highest growth rate in Europe. We have the fourth highest rate of investment in Europe. Since the government took office, almost 70 000 more people have a job to go to. Youth unemployment is falling. Long-term unemployment is falling. We have also halved the budget deficit. This equips us well to address the societal challenges that are now ahead of us. At the same time, however, development is held back by almost a decade of underinvestment. For eight years, tax cuts went first. It took precedence over investments in housing and infrastructure, in school and education, before jobs and welfare. This government chooses a different path. We choose social investment before tax cuts. We've started a new community building. Already this year we are investing heavily in Sweden's new job agenda, in infrastructure investments, with a new export strategy and better access to venture capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. We are investing in a new knowledge boost with over 50 000 new training places so that more people can take the jobs that are emerging. This year, too, our investment in higher teacher's salaries, lower secondary classes and increased support for schools that need it most. At the same time, the largest investment in housing in over 20 years starts, and already this year the construction of housing is expected to be the highest since the early 1990s. This strengthens Sweden's productivity, strengthens its competitiveness and contributes to cohesion and security. But the task has grown since the government took office. Let me give you a few examples. For the more than 350 000 people who are going out of unemployment today, there are also more new arrivals who are also going to work. Until 2019, 60,000 teachers are needed and the need for new housing in 2025 is estimated at over 700 000. The government will therefore increase the pace of reform in the spring so that more people will work, so that we increase the results in schools and to significantly increase housing construction. Today, the government is initiating broad political discussions on how to build more new homes. We see that reforms are needed in three areas of housing policy. It takes innovation. First, short time from idea to finished home. If we are to build enough, the state and the municipalities must cooperate and work together. The government will therefore continue to work on regulatory simplification. We are also prepared to review housing building requirements for municipalities. Secondly, increase building capacity. For example, the government wants to review whether two of the state-owned companies can contribute to building new housing. It's about Akademiska hus and Special Properties. We want to test whether a model with type-approved houses could simplify the planning and construction process and at the same time lead to the industrial development of prefabricated houses. We also want to increase the number of training courses in the construction industry. Thirdly, increase funding and mobility. The government wants to review the need to supplement investment aid with new forms of rent guarantees to stimulate the production of cheap rentals. If necessary, we are prepared to provide SBAB with funds for public utility lending, construction companies and municipalities. We also want to review tax issues in order to increase mobility in our housing market. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs investment. We need cooperation. I welcome the many political agreements we reached last year. I look forward to new collaborations. It's good for Sweden. Building a community is done together in broad collaboration with the business community, with the trade unions, with civil society, with researchers and with many other actors. Together we build Sweden strong for the future.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Prime Minister is surprisingly proud and satisfied with only 13 days since his budget came into force. It is the worst results he has achieved with economic policy since then.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-23	However, the Prime Minister's inability to deal with jobs and Sweden's integration challenges risk leading to approximately 90 000 more overseas born being permanently unemployed. This is shown by new estimates from the Parliamentary Investigation Service. The Prime Minister for an economic policy which, moreover, is at risk of having negative effects on employment.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-25	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me remind you that last spring the government presented a spring change budget. That's where the change started. Secondly, the change started when the government took office. We have never conducted a moderate labour market policy. We have made sure that labour market policy has become much more active, and we have done so from day one. Then let me remind Anna Kinberg Batra of the migration policy during your eight years in the government. It prevailed until last autumn. We've changed that. We have done so in agreement because it was absolutely necessary. In your eight years, unemployment increased – long-term unemployment and youth unemployment. You have consistently given priority to tax cuts over everything else. Now it's time to invest. We're gonna invest in more jobs. We do this with Sweden's new job agenda. These are investments in housing and infrastructure. This is how we strengthen Sweden in the long term, and so we make sure to create jobs. It is enterprise policy that makes it possible to start more businesses and grow. That is why I am talking about venture capital supply and other measures for these companies. It is also a question of education. There are so many people who do not have the right education for the jobs that are emerging. The Moderates, too, must reasonably have seen that flaw. If eight years of your politics led to the present situation, why do the Moderates and Anna Kinberg Batra believe that it is more of the same misery that is going to happen? It is time to change politics, and that is what the government does.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-32	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy is strong now, Prime Minister, after the Alliance's employment policy, after the Alliance has cared for one of the world's best managed public finances. However, the Council of Finance Ministers recently stated that after eight years more than half of immigrants and refugee relatives have not come to work on the basis of the granting of residence permits. There is now a need for extensive integration efforts, and there is a need for urgent action. That is why we Moderates have proposed a broad reform agenda with more open pathways to the labour market, making it more profitable to move from exclusion to self-sufficiency, with better training for those who need to enter the labour market. From the turn of the year onwards, the government is pursuing a policy in the opposite direction with higher thresholds and extended grant schemes. I want an answer to my question: Why is the government turning a blind eye to Sweden's integration challenges?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-35	Mr President, I would like to This place doesn't close its eyes. Here, what is required is done. On the one hand, we have made sure to change migration policy because it was absolutely necessary. The government wants to take responsibility for people who flee, but now Sweden was almost alone, together with two other countries, among the EU's 28 Member States. On the other hand, it's about what you forgot to do. First of all, we inherited a large budget deficit from you. There is a simple fact check to read, Anna Kinberg Batra. Read it! Then you'll see what budget deficit we inherited. We have halved it by means of a sensible economic policy. To this end, the government has put forward investments in housing, infrastructure, industrial policy and education so that people can take the jobs that are emerging. The alliance's great shortage was a high unemployment and that the business community could not at the same time find the people who could take the jobs. There was a lack of education. We take hold of this, and we do what is necessary.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-39	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Stefan Löfven takes as his starting point the events in Cologne, in Kungsträdgården and in a number of other cities in our country and in other parts of our part of the world. Stefan Löfven says that every woman's body is her own, that society should stand on the victim's side, that the attitude of boys and men must change, and so on. These are, of course, good markings. But Stefan Löfven does not reach all the way. Something's missing. Stefan Löfven misses the essentials of the debate. I believe that I, Stefan Löfven and the vast majority of the Riksdag can agree that these events are a new phenomenon in our country, a new phenomenon in our part of the world, that a group of men in larger crowds choose to surround young women, children, girls, sexually harass them and sexually assault them and so on. At least I've never heard of it happening before in our country. I do not know if Stefan Löfven has done so, but many testify that it is a new phenomenon. But in Stefan Lövven's speech, it sounded like it would be anyone. It's the same thing that men and boys expose women to everywhere all the time. I believe, Mr President, that culture matters. Standards, values, attitudes matter and control people's behaviour. My simple concrete question to Stefan Löfven is whether he agrees with that analysis. Does culture matter, Stefan Löfven? Does Culture Control People's Behavior?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-44	Mr President, I would like to I feel a very strong anger that women and girls should have to be subjected to these abuses at all. It is then the duty of society to stand up for the victims, regardless of who carries out the abuse, regardless of whether they were born in Sweden and have lived in Sweden for many years or have just come to our country. No matter who, crimes will be prosecuted and guilty will be prosecuted. In addition, we need to work with the attitude of men and boys to deal with the abuse. However, I am a little surprised that the Swedish Democrats are now suddenly standing up for equality. I recall one evening in Stockholm when Jimmie Åkesson's party representatives had the insanity and the distasteful tone of calling a young woman a word that I do not want to take in my mouth. If the memory does not fail, it was the same people who then went out with iron pipes in Stockholm city. I find it difficult to take on board the Swedish Democrats' desire for equality when you also take on board the measures you have put in the budget. If you had got your budget through, you would have taken 90 billion kronor from the municipalities. This would be most noticeable for women in this country. Who thinks Jimmie Åkesson will do the job in care for the elderly when our common care for the elderly is not enough for you? It's the women. Who is allowed to stand up when you are going to remove the SEK 90 billion from the municipalities? Yes, it will be the women. Jimmie Åkesson's sense of equality I don't give much for.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-48	Mr President, I would like to Is this the Prime Minister of Sweden speaking? Embarrassing, I must say. Embarrassing!
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-49	But sure, society should stand up for these women, these girls. But is it, Stefan Löfven, to stand up for these girls and these women to deny the reasons for these behaviours, to deny that there are cultural differences between different groups in our society too, to a very large extent as a result of a irresponsible immigration policy? Is it really, Stefan Löfven, to stand up for these girls and women to deny the cultural differences, the culture that is the reason why girls in our country today, when they are in large crowds, are surrounded by men and sexually harassed, sexually assaulted? Is it standing up for them to deny the cultural differences that exist?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-50	Mr President, I would like to To defend these women and women in general is to ensure that crimes are prosecuted, first of all. The second is to see that, regardless of the motive or background or the origin of these crimes, they must of course be analysed, and we must have much more work to do to change the attitudes of all boys and men who take the liberty of harassing, not least sexually harassing, young women and women in general. Whatever the motive, we must of course work to change attitudes. It's never okay to touch or harass women. A woman's body, a girl's body, is her own.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-53	Mr President, I would like to In October, an agreement was reached between six parties, including the Social Democrats and the Center Party, to begin to deal with the challenge facing Sweden when we get a lot of new arrivals. This was a good and necessary agreement. It strengthened the municipalities, which play an important role in this. It strengthened civil society. In particular, there were proposals for faster entry into work. I am thinking, then, of the abolition of the requirement for collective agreements for YA jobs. This was a good deal, but much more is needed. There is a disappointment in us in the Center Party regarding the elements that are about the new arrivals getting to work quickly. There's very little on the government's side. When it comes to quickly intervening in the Öresund region by effectively closing the bridge, then the government is quickly out. But when it comes to ensuring that people get to work quickly, then it should be investigated carefully. I am also concerned when I hear the Prime Minister say that the only sustainable solution to the current situation is at European level. It's not like that. For the people who have fled war and persecution to build a home here, it takes two things. It requires a place to live, and it takes a job. From the Center Party we are absolutely convinced that the labour market we have in Sweden must be fundamentally reformed. We need more flexible legislation. We need lower costs for hiring and more entry jobs for initially lower entry salaries. I would like to put a question to the Prime Minister, who claims to be leading a cooperation government. Is the Prime Minister prepared to engage in pragmatic talks with the aim of twisting and turning all the stones, including those that question Social Democratic dogmas, in order to ensure that more people get to work quickly?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-59	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, Sweden has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to the reception of refugees. We are the country that has received by far the most per capita in the EU. There is no country that can match us in terms of responsibility. I would also like to remind you that we have taken a series of measures precisely because the new arrivals need to get into work more quickly. It is much faster SFI – SFI already in the asylum accommodation. It's validation. It's education. It's an internship. It's a fast track. We are in dialogue with the business community. Many companies say: We want to give these people the opportunity to practice. They gather around that task. There is a series of tasks under way. We have also taken measures for more accommodation. We have given the municipalities almost 10 billion in additional support in the agreement that we agreed on. We have changed the rules for support housing so that we can manage and provide unaccompanied minors with a better reception. We have doubled the standard for the reception of refugees to the municipalities. We have doubled the standard for children's schooling in the reception of asylum. These are some of the tasks we have taken on, and we intend to continue. So the answer is yes. I will not leave any stone unturned that gives the opportunity to work, practice and education so that people can make a living. But I'll be very clear about that, Anders W Jonsson: I'm not going to destroy what makes Sweden strong – that you can go to work and actually make a living on your job, that you know that even when you can't work, you can support yourself and have a secure economy so that consumption is maintained and the individual can manage their transition. I am not going to break what is Sweden's success. It's the Swedish model. It's the Nordic model. That's where I'll take the fight.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-64	Mr President, I would like to Like the Prime Minister, I am extremely proud of the asylum reception that Sweden has provided. We want a compassionate Sweden, a Sweden that receives and protects the people who flee from war and conflict. I also fully share the Prime Minister's view that there is a need for extensive efforts on validation and education. But what we also need to see is that we in Sweden are now facing a completely different challenge than we have ever done before in that we now have a lot of people who have come here, who will stay, who will see Sweden as their home country but who may lack education and at worst do not even know the written language. Then, for example, the Council of Finance Ministers says that what is needed are reforms that ensure that we get more jobs with low pay and low qualification requirements. That's where the Prime Minister stops. He is not prepared to turn those stones to get these people to work. Then it is more important for the Prime Minister to defend Social Democratic dogmas. I regret that, as it may lead to a very serious situation for the country.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-68	Mr President, I would like to If we are talking about dogmas, then the talk about lower wages and low qualifications is about some dogma. The number of so-called simple jobs is growing in Sweden. But it is also the case that those jobs are often held by people who have a higher level of education than those jobs require – significantly higher. This means that those people are competing out people with low levels of education. So what are we gonna do? Is it not better to invest in jobs for those who have a relatively high level of education and are able to move into the courses for which they are qualified, in the jobs for which they are qualified? The answer is guilty of civility. What are you gonna do? Wages are placed on the labour market between two sides. We also know that at a time when a small group's salary is being reduced, that is not enough. It will affect a much larger proportion of the labour market. Lowering wages in Sweden is not the way forward.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-72	Mr President and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! Last autumn Sweden received a record number of asylum seekers. This presents major challenges. It also offers very great opportunities. It is quite clear what we need to do. We need to offer good vocational training in shortage professions so that people can get the jobs that exist and will be created in Sweden. We need to make sure that you learn Swedish quickly. We need to build more rental apartments than we've done in a very long time in this country. At the same time – we received an excellent example just now – the bourgeoisie uses this situation for what it always uses every situation: to say that the solution is deteriorating conditions in the labour market, lower wages and greater insecurity. The government has now agreed with the bourgeois parties to do some of this. They want YA jobs no longer to require collective agreements, and you have agreed to that. So we should all be involved in paying companies that employ people without a collective agreement. It is the classic right-wing battering ram against the Swedish model and the security of the labour market, nothing less. My question is: why should we, why should society, give support to companies if they do not want to conclude collective agreements?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-77	Mr President, I would like to As far as YA jobs are concerned, they are treated in exactly the same way as any other labour market policy measures we have. No, we have nothing to be ashamed of. We have a solidarity-based reception that is strong and echoes across Europe, Europe, the world. Our line, the government line, is to make sure that those who have come here, and more will come, have to get the best start. That's why we'll settle the terms of this. It's about work. I will never deviate from the fact that the conditions that apply here at home will also apply to those who come here. I don't want a shared society. We're going to have a society that stays together for real and where everyone has the same opportunities. Many of the people who come here have amazing qualifications, and they are to be taken care of. I sometimes meet them out in the country, and they're in full swing with their internship and their job. I also meet many people who need education, who have hardly any education and who need it. They will have it, and then they will gradually get into work under the same conditions as those already in place here. That line is absolutely fixed. When we talk about YA jobs, we are talking about a measure that should have the same rules as the rest of our labour market policies. I think that is a rather wise line. Collective agreements are extremely important for Sweden. They have served and will serve Sweden well. As politicians, we have the task of supporting the model in which employers and employees conclude agreements on the terms and conditions applicable to the labour market.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-83	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. The logical conclusion would have been to say that you should have collective agreements when working in Sweden even if you have a YA job. But it didn't come. That is what you said earlier, Stefan Löfven, when the proposals came from the bourgeoisie. It does not stop at this agreement, but connects the new temporary residence permits, which replace the permanent residence permits, to the possibility of getting a job in Sweden. Anyone who gets a permanent job can stay in Sweden. It creates an enormous disadvantage. This means that anyone who wants a residence permit can take almost any job. You're in a desperate situation. The risk of people being exploited is obvious when residence permits are linked to work in this way. It's unreasonable to do that. It's exploited by rogue employers. Does the Prime Minister not see the risk of weakening employees' position in the labour market through asylum policy?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-86	Mr President, I would like to Getting a job that you can make a living on, and being able to show that you can make a living on it, is a good thing. Then we believe that this person should be allowed to stay in the country. Those are the new rules. I think that's right. Didn't Jonas Sjöstedt see that something needed to be done? We'll do whatever it takes. We are proud of what we have done, because we have received more than any other country in Europe, but the situation became unsustainable. If we had continued in the same way, we would have ended up in the situation that Jonas Sjöstedt is afraid of. Society was in danger of not being able to give people a roof over their heads, make sure they got to work and the children in school. For a while this autumn we received 100 classes a week. It was untenable. Had it been allowed to continue, we would have ended up where Jonas Sjöstedt is. Jonas Sjöstedt should realise that.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-89	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council. Two things are missing in the Swedish housing market. One is housing and the other is market. I naturally appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister, together with some other ministers today, is writing an article on housing policy. It identifies a very important Swedish societal challenge for the coming years. The problem is that the proposals it makes are either old or empty and do not contribute to more housing. What you write in the article is like spitting a thirsty one in your throat. You write about three things. The first is liberalisation. That's good. I'll get back to that. The second is more training places. This has been mentioned for a long time, but it does not solve the housing crisis. The third is more subsidies, and it has almost always been counterproductive. As far as liberalisation is concerned, which is in fact the only concrete element in the article and which has an effect, this is essentially something that the Alliance set in motion. So it is not something new. You don't have your own housing policy, Stefan Löfven. That's the truth. I heard Stefan Löfven say in an earlier line that a lot is now being built under the Social Democrats while under the bourgeois it was built a little. By the time we took over 2006, the building act was 30,000 homes a year. It was the Social Democratic Building Act. Now it is being built more than for a long time, but it is not Stefan Lövven's credit that it was built more last year, when 50 000 homes were built, and that more is being built this year. It takes years for construction to get started. It is therefore an effect of the Alliance's policy. But that's not enough. There's still more to be done. Therefore, it should be interesting to listen to the expert bodies that exist. IFAU, OECD, European Commission, IMF, World Bank, our own Financial Policy Council, Boverket – the Expert Authority – has all gone through why too little is being built. None of them say that subsidies are the solution, none of them. Almost everyone points to price regulation, rent regulation. It does not pay to build rental apartments in the main, except for municipalities that can increase the tax to finance losses. We need market rents for new production, Stefan Löfven. Then we'd get the construction going.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-95	Mr President, I would like to It would be good if Jan Björklund started by doing a fact check. If Jan Björklund compares housing construction during the reigns of the Alliance with the Social Democratic government periods, the whole period, he will see a certain difference. The Boverket carried out a follow-up to the investment aid introduced by the then Social Democratic Government in the early 2000s. It turned out to be a success. Without this support, says Boverket, a third would have been built in the early 2000s, a third. There's a difference. If we do not come up with anything new, Jan Björklund, we can at least agree on the following that we have presented today: We will shorten the times for construction. That is why we want to continue the simplification work initiated by the Alliance Government, for which it is to be recognised. We'll move on to that. We want to review the possibility of imposing demands on municipalities that refuse to build when the nation needs it and when the region needs it. We want to review that. We want to increase capacity. This is not just about training, but I want to review the possibility of type-approved houses so that we can start industrial construction, reduce costs and have more prefabricated houses. As I mentioned, I want to give state companies – Akademiska Hus and Special Properties – the opportunity to make an effort. I would like to review the possibility of transforming state property into housing. In addition to the investment aid I have been talking about, I would also like to see whether it is possible to provide rental guarantees in order to secure the conditions for those who are going to build rental apartments. If we don't come up with something new, Jan Björklund, are you already in agreement with us on this? Do you at least agree with us that we have a great commitment ahead of us, to build at least 700 000 homes by 2025? Do you agree with us that we need to sit down and crack some nuts for it to succeed?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-101	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that we agree on liberalisation. It is we who have proposed them. On the other hand, subsidies are essentially meaningless. If we really want to subsidise it so that it is enough, we are talking about huge amounts of money. I can't. That's not possible. It needs to be built for thousands of billions over a ten-year period. Subsidising with a few billion is nothing more than possibly driving up the prices for construction. The central point of the expert bodies, the Prime Minister, is price regulation, rent regulation. There's nothing strange about that. In every country that tries to regulate the prices of goods, there are shortages, queues and the black market. And hear and be amazed, the Swedish housing market is characterized by shortages, queues and black market. We need to allow more free renting when it comes to new production. The existing housing stock is another thing, but new production requires it. Plane management is recognized, Prime Minister. No plan, no posture, no houses.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-104	Mr President, I would like to Facts still apply, also for Jan Björklund. Jan Björklund only needs to look at Boverket's report on what happened in the early 2000s when the then Social Democratic government introduced investment support. Look at that report! I don't mind reviewing various factors that have a bearing on housing construction. However, we know that we already have so-called presumption rents. They're valid for 15 years. We have a system where it is possible to have different rules for leasing than those negotiated. They exist, and we need to evaluate them to see what is working and what is not working with them. I'm not prepared to hux flux saying that there should be market rents in a situation where we have a housing shortage. The Liberals, too, must understand that. When there is a shortage and we have a free rent, we know that the rents go up, sharply up. In such a situation, I do not intend to commit myself, but I am prepared to look at all the factors, because we need to build more housing.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-107	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats went to elections in 2014 for Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020. The goal was already condemned then, and it was said that it was unrealistic to compare Sweden's labour market with countries that have a completely different structure on the labour market, but Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats promised jobs and the EU's lowest unemployment rate. It was primarily young people who were going to get a job. The main feature of the Social Democrats' employment policy was the trainee jobs. It would be 32,000 trainee jobs. By November, it had become one. I guess we're up to 600 now. It is well-lawed that the government has turned expectations down to one third, but only until 2017, when we can expect 10,000 trainee jobs. The government's trainee job reform has failed. The question is whether the Prime Minister takes any impression whatsoever of this. Will the government reach the EU's lowest unemployment target by 2020, Stefan Löfven? If the Prime Minister still claims that Sweden will reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, how high or low will it be in 2018? So that voters can evaluate the government's labour market and employment policy – at what level should the unemployment rate be in 2018?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-110	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little surprised. It is as if you are putting the whole rhetoric to the fact that we have formulated a goal. It is clear that we should have a target for reducing unemployment. Employment is the most important thing. Now we can show that employment is increasing. As I said, about 70 000 more people have a job to go to today. Youth unemployment is falling. Long-term unemployment is falling. Rejoice, Andreas Carlson! I do. But I see that's not enough. There's a lot more to it. Therefore, we will not leave anything untested for people to go back to work. But it is not aiming to say that it will only work out if we get lower wages or simpler jobs. It's much more complicated. It is your eight years of failure to invest in housing that means that employers cannot recruit people, because there is nowhere to live here. There's work, but there's nowhere to live. Failure to invest in rail and road maintenance means that transport does not go as it should. There has been a failure to invest in industrial policy, so that we can produce the goods and services that will become new sales clubs, so that companies need to hire. The failure of your time when it comes to investing in people's skills led to people being unemployed and without training while companies stood and said: We need to hire, but we cannot find anyone with the right training. Then what's the answer? Yes, it's education. But you say the answer is lower wages. We have the strategy and Sweden's new job agenda. I'm going to hold it, and I'm not going to give up until people can go to work. By 2020, Sweden will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-116	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to be happy when 80 percent of the tax increases implemented by the government hit jobs and entrepreneurship directly. Stefan Löfven says that the target remains fixed and that Sweden will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, but I would say that that promise is already broken. The Ministry of Finance's latest forecast, published on 21 December last year, states that unemployment will be 6.8 per cent in 2019. Unfortunately, this is an adjustment from 6.2%, but the forecast does not extend to 2020. In order for us to reach 4 1⁄2 percent or what Germany has in unemployment figures, I can actually see three possible outcomes for Stefan Löfven: an economic miracle between 2019 and 2020, that the Ministry of Finance's forecast is not correct or that the government's unemployment target for 2020 can already be buried. Which of these three options does Stefan Löfven choose?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-118	Mr President, I would like to I am beginning to understand how the Christian Democrats think. First, you say that the trainee jobs have failed. There the regulations were ready in November, but you have already condemned that reform. You have already condemned an unemployment target for 2020. You look at a prognosis and you see a number over there, and you think that's the case. Yeah, that's what happens if you don't do anything, but not if you keep going, and I'm gonna do it. We have a job agenda. It requires us to complete it. We need to invest in housing so that people can move to where the jobs are. We must invest in rail so that we can have smooth transport for people and goods. We must invest in new products and new and growing companies – companies of the future. We must invest in education, so that people can take the jobs that are created. I'm sticking to that line.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-121	Mr President, I would like to Just a few hundred meters from the Parliament House is Kungsträdgården. It is a place of association and fellowship, but not for everyone. For many young girls it has now become a place associated with touching hands, violations and abuse. There is only one way to describe it, namely that it is totally unacceptable. No one should have to risk being sexually abused in crowds or elsewhere. You have to be able to feel safe as a girl or a guy. Everything else is a failure for everyone. Everyone needs to be able to trust the police to do everything they can. There must never be politics in which crimes are reported or reported. It's dangerous for a society if people don't trust the police. Sweden should be a society that is safe and where security works for everyone. We do not want to see developments such as those in Cologne, where some people resort to violence. It's a failure for society as a whole. Basically, it's simple. In Sweden, we should never compromise with equality, security or something as obvious as being able to go out with your friends and do what you want without someone grabbing or assaulting you. And if that is unacceptable, then whoever does it must be severely punished and punished. There's no alternative to that.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-125	Mr President, I would like to We have left a 2015 that was largely marked by the migration crisis. Last year, some 163 000 people applied for asylum in Sweden. It is a situation that cannot be compared to something we have experienced in the past. Several parts of society have been tried, and in some cases the ability has also been broken. Fewer are now coming to Sweden, but this does not mean that the acute crisis is over. Just dealing with all the asylum applications from those who arrived last year can take up to three years. The refugee crisis will affect Swedish society for a long time. It will require leadership and reforms for several years to come. Everyone who comes to Sweden needs their first home. We need training efforts. People need their first job. We have had declining school results for a long time. We have had a housing shortage for a long time. We have long had a labour market with too high thresholds. These challenges have been well known for a long time. They have not become smaller, on the contrary. Therefore 2016 needs to be the year when we seriously equip Sweden to be strong and coherent in the future. Mr President, I would like to Many people in Sweden are doing well, but for many in Sweden things are not going well at all. Although there is a Sweden – a very large part – where the economy is going well and the future looks bright, there is also a Sweden where people who have dreamed of a future in freedom have stuck in the feeling that that freedom is not for them. One out of every seven people is still excluded. Many people are stuck in welfare dependency. It's an alienation that's getting deeper and deeper, and whoever's stuck is getting harder and harder to get out of there. Above all, young people without education and born abroad are affected. Beyond the Bnp statistics, Sweden is becoming a country where people live next to each other but not together. We must break that trend. Mr President, I would like to The basis for meeting the challenges facing Sweden is strong and sustainable public finances. Only then can you take responsibility for the future. We are now facing difficult trials as a result of greatly increased costs for, among other things, the refugee crisis, but also for, for example, the increase in sick leave. Overall, public finances are estimated to be in deficit and more than double in the next few years. It is a deficit of an order of magnitude that is more of a recession – this despite the fact that Sweden is now heading for a boom, according to the Konjunkturinstitutet. How credible is the government's economic policy? Only a few years ago, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson spoke of Sweden as an empty barn. Now it is suddenly said that Sweden is going as well as a newly produced Tesla. Before the elections, it was promised that the surplus target would not be abandoned. Now you have to look carefully for promises of your balance. One minute, the Minister of Finance says that reforms should be financed heads for heads. A few moments later, she yearns for unfunded reforms. It's fast twitching sometimes. It's quarterly politics. The question is how long the sustainability of the government's forecasts and promises is. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a strong country that holds together. Sweden is the country in the EU where the difference in employment between domestic and foreign born is greatest. We have a labour market for those who have good education and know good Swedish. It works essentially quite well. At the same time, we have a completely different labour market for those who lack education or do not know the language. Not even half of all refugees of working age get a job after eight years. It's not reasonable, it's not sustainable, it's not human. Breaking this new alienation will be our most important task for a long time to come. At the same time, we must safeguard the long-term competitiveness of Swedish companies. We need to secure Swedish job growth, and this requires improving the conditions for entrepreneurship. Then it is not good enough for a prime minister to turn a blind eye to this challenge. The economy is strong, he says. There's no job missing, he says. The refugee crisis will soon be over, he says. This is an attitude that, if nothing is done, risks leading to 90 000 more permanently unemployed, according to new estimates from the parliamentary investigation service. There are so many who risk not even being given a chance on the labour market when the government turns a blind eye to the integration challenge and when choosing to raise thresholds and expand benefit systems. We have to shorten the way to the first job. It must always pay off from subsidies to work. There must be a clear k rav to hire a bar. There must be an educational obligation for those who come to Sweden without having passed comprehensive school. The labour market must be opened up and more people given opportunities to learn the job at work. At the same time, there is a great personal responsibility. Those who do not exert themselves and do their very best according to their own ability take the right to demand that others do it for you. Mr President, I would like to Last year, 14 000 students left secondary school without being qualified for upper secondary school. We cannot afford that if we are to compete with knowledge. We must reverse developments in the Swedish school. No one should have to worry that it compromises with the knowledge requirements and ambitions at school when there are demanding times – on the contrary. Knowledge in Swedish schools must not be eroded. They must be strengthened. That's why the Moderates are developing school politics. That's why we promise never to save the school. This is why there is a need for clearer knowledge checks in the preparation classes. This is why we need the opportunity to learn Swedish, to study primary school qualifications and to learn their profession at the same time. That is why more math is needed in school and more of the knowledge required in a modern labour market. The school should be a place that is safe, where good teachers have the right conditions to do their job. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a fantastic country. Sweden is a strong country with a strong economy and a society that stays together. We've been through crises before. We can do that again. But nothing gets better all by itself, and now Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. It is a school that does not provide sufficient knowledge. It is a labour market that leaves too many outside. It is people who, instead of hope for the future, feel hopeless. Sweden now needs tough decisions, substantial reforms and difficult balances. We need will, courage and leadership. Then Sweden can do more.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-139	Mr President, I would like to First, I'll have to ask Anna Kinberg Batra not to put quotes in my mouth like I've never said. It is not that jobs are enough and that we do not need more jobs. My whole political act and my whole focus is on jobs, precisely because we have too few jobs in Sweden. We need more jobs. Anna Kinberg Batra raised the issue of school in her speech. She did so in a statement in December. Then she said the Moderates promised to stop cutting down on school. I was very happy. Then it was less than a week. At that time the Moderates voted for cuts in the education budget of more than SEK 3 billion. The Moderates said no to increased teachers' salaries. There was a refusal to invest in the development of children's school and to the renovation of school premises. The Moderates say one thing but do something completely different. Under your government ownership, you put 19 times more money into tax cuts than you put into school. And in your draft budget for 2016, you obviously continue in exactly the same way. There is obviously room for a sixth job tax deduction but not for an investment in children's school. When are you going to put children's school and children's and young people's education before tax cuts, Anna Kinberg Batra?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-143	Mr President, I would like to If the Prime Minister is serious about sticking to the truth, he can start by acknowledging to this House and anyone who listens that we are increasing the spending on education by 2.6 billion – it is possible to find out – in our budget motion. Stick to the truth, Prime Minister, and let us speak seriously about knowledge in school! Sweden's high school students could have more math on the schedule already, if we had got our proposals through. We carried out the biggest school reforms since the introduction of folk school, it is said, in the final year of the Alliance. I don't think that's enough, but more is needed. But then it is knowledge that is needed. Stefan Löfven and his party friends voted against our proposals on, for example, expanded career teacher services and more math in school. Stop withholding the truth, Prime Minister! Stick to the truth and answer what your government does to strengthen school knowledge.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-146	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates say one thing and do another. It says to read in black and white in your draft budget for this year. In the case of teachers' salaries, it is minus $1,280 million. When it comes to school development, it is minus SEK 1 248 million. When it comes to the renovation of school premises, it is minus SEK 830 million. That is what your draft budget looks like. There are more negative entries. I have a long list. We can take it later. Don't the Moderates see the need to invest in school? Is a tax cut still more important than a substantial investment in school? Is it still moderate politics?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-148	Mr President, I would like to When preparing for such debates, the lines are sometimes written in advance. I think the Prime Minister has written a little tax on his notes. But now we're talking about school, I think. Let's talk about the truth, I hope. Then it is a fact that we continue to invest in the school, which began during the time of the Alliance and which Sweden would need. For example, we would need more career positions, not least in exclusion areas, where the importance of a skilled teacher who attracts learning and who can help those who may have tough home conditions is greatest. These are some of the proposals that we made, but to which the Social Democrats and the Left voted against. I am convinced that more investment in the school is needed. This involves more efforts on good teachers, on knowledge in school and on measuring knowledge earlier in school. I look forward to coming back to that in this House, and I think that we should both stick to the facts.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-151	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is governed by a historically weak socialist government. The Moderates and Anna Kinberg Batra take every opportunity to point this out, point out how bad it is for Sweden and point out how bad and harmful this socialist government policy is for Sweden. At the same time, they have done nothing to change this fact – quite the opposite. We've given Anna Kinberg Batra and the Moderates a chance to change. They have not taken these chances – quite the contrary, in fact. Together with the other bourgeois parties, they have entered into a power cartel with this socialist government so that Sweden can be ruled without any influence. Mr President, I would like to Now a fairly large number of polls show that Moderate voters want Anna Kinberg Batra and the Moderates to start cooperating with SD. Only yesterday, the Moderate Youth League went out demanding an alliance government supported by SD. Then my question is: Is Anna Kinberg Batra going to listen to her constituents and her own youth federation? Do Anna Kinberg Batra and the Moderates want a different budget and a different government?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-155	Mr President, I would like to Sweden would need a better government than Stefan Löfven now leads. That is why I want to lead an alliance government, and that is why I want to develop and lead a strong, sustainable and credible economic policy that holds, that is serious, that includes the whole of society and that has an agenda to break the new exclusion, to name a few of the questions that the Swedish Democrats do not have an answer to. One must take responsibility for the government that one wants to form, and that is why I want to form a government with the Alliance.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-156	Mr President, I would like to You could say you want something. But it rarely counts in politics what you say. When politics is then to be evaluated afterwards, it is what you actually do that matters, and what Anna Kinberg Batra now says does not match what she does – quite the opposite. Anna Kinberg Batra says that she wants a different budget and that she wants another government, but she does not seem to get another budget or another government. I would like to say that it is the worst kind of hypocrisy. Mr President, I would like to The way I see it, Anna Kinberg Batra has two choices. She says she wants an alliance government. But if it is to become another government, it is about Anna Kinberg Batra also having to cooperate with either the Social Democrats or the Swedish Democrats. That is the reality today. It's just to read any poll. That is likely to happen. Then my question is: Who chooses Anna Kinberg Batra?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-159	Mr President, I would like to What Jimmie Åkesson has in common with Stefan Löfven is that it is power above all. But I want to lead a new government with an agenda that builds Sweden stronger and an agenda that can solve Sweden's integration problems instead of, as Jimmie Åkesson's party, rejecting integration policy. Sweden does not get stronger by dividing people into us and them or by risking instability and crises, but we need a better, credible and sustainable economic policy. For that I intend to make proposals, because I intend to form opinion and for that I seek support from the electorate. Then I also want to be able to implement it with a good result for Sweden. You have to take responsibility for that, and the Alliance is prepared to do so.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-161	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Anna Kinberg Batra for starting her speech here, like the Prime Minister, by expressing her disgust at the unacceptable situation that we have in Sweden with so many women and girls being subjected to sexual harassment. I am convinced that both Anna Kinberg Batra and I know that this is unfortunately not a new problem in Sweden. It has been going on for a long time in many different environments, and we really need to do something about it. In an uncertain world that we are experiencing now, it is important that society is steered towards as safe and stable a development as possible. Protecting a planet in balance and reducing climate emissions is and is becoming an increasingly important task for global security work. In 2015, an important step was taken internationally when the first binding climate agreement was agreed globally. Part of the work that Sweden did to help this agreement come into place was to show that clearly set and ambitious climate targets together with broad collaboration in society can reduce emissions quite much, much more than many think. But a few days before the climate summit, Moderate climate and energy speakers in the European Parliament, Christofer Fjellner, went out and warned of Sweden's and the EU's high climate ambitions. He pointed to this as a deterrent and claimed that future investment is fleeing because of climate policy. My question to Anna Kinberg Batra is: Do you agree with this? Is it the Moderates' view that the Swedish and European climate ambitions would have been lower before the climate summit and that future investments are fleeing because of climate policy?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-165	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Åsa Romson that we must stand up for Sweden to be a society where everyone can come to their own and be sure to be safe. I am also pleased that the climate summit in Paris reached an agreement. It is now a matter of ensuring that this also becomes a reality. Then the question is how to do it in practice. Sweden is one of the countries that has energy production with the least fossil emissions. We are the country in Europe that has the greatest share of renewable energy in our energy mix. I am proud of that, not least after the parliamentary decision that we were able to make in 2010. Against this background, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Climate and the Environment, especially now that it is so cold out there and we are talking about jobs, how Sweden will cope with a fossil-free energy mix with a rapid decommissioning of nuclear power? Should we have coal or oil instead? Or should we replace the great loss of electricity production with something else, and if so, what can we use now?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-168	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not receive an answer to the question of whether climate policy is a danger to future investment. Today, the government, and indeed large parts of Europe and the world, sees opportunities for more investment precisely by changing the economy to be independent of fossil fuels that drain the planet's capacity and survival. As far as energy policy is concerned, I am pleased that we have a secure energy supply in Sweden. We have incredibly good opportunities to have 100% renewable energy in our country. The Green Party has made it clear that this is possible by 2030. I am also pleased that we have an energy commission that is broad and that discusses several issues. I do not feel the uncertainty that the parties of the Alliance now want to spread about Swedish electricity production. It's safe. We have a large surplus of electricity in Sweden, we plan to continue to have a large surplus and we get more and more renewable energy. I think we should be happy and proud of that.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-170	Mr President, I would like to During the time of the Alliance, we invested a great deal in renewable energy, which I think is very important. But now we are living in a country where almost half of the electricity comes from nuclear power. Dreams, visions and ambitions are one thing, but we have a society where you have to be able to go to work in the mornings now that it is 10, 20 or 30 degrees cold out and where we are completely dependent on stable and reliable energy supply. How can we invest, for example, in a fossil-free vehicle fleet with much more electric cars without electricity to the extent that we have now?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-171	Mr President and Anna Kinberg Batra! 16 June 2009 was a bad day for Swedish defence policy. This House then decided to abolish military service. Your party, Anna Kinberg Batra – the Moderates – was absolutely decisive and driving the abolition of military service. Now that we can evaluate this, we can see that you made Swedish defence weaker. We can see that military service would have been good for the defense in several ways. Today we have a great lack of military personnel, and military service is the natural solution to that. We need a defence that is deeply rooted in the Swedish population, and what defence is more anchored than what has universal military service? It reflects the society we actually are and live in. That's why the Left Party wants us to reinstate military service. We want it investigated as soon as possible. We want all men and women in Sweden to sign up and for everyone who is suitable to carry out a shorter military education. However, no one who does not want to be forced into military service; there should also be a civilian alternative. Few reforms would strengthen Swedish defence as much as that reform. My question to you, Anna Kinberg Batra, is: Are you prepared, together with us, to strengthen Sweden's defence and restore military service?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-175	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt asks me if I, together with him, am prepared to develop the defence, and we can stay a little bit there. There is a fairly clear right – left – conflict on this issue, especially with regard to the Left Party. I had the pleasure only the other day to attend the People's and Defence National Conference in Sälen and discuss the importance of motivated personnel, trained personnel and personnel who have the right resources and equipment to perform the right tasks in an environment with, for example, an increasingly aggressive Russia and very strong, large and sharp needs that the defence needs to meet. It is against this background that I, unlike Jonas Sjöstedt, participated in a defence settlement and now a defence decision that strengthens Swedish ability. It includes an investigation into the functioning of the human resources supply system where voluntary activity is the basis. What we need are trained staff who can also do really sharp tasks, because it is needed in an unfortunately increasingly uncertain environment. It's not usually the Left Party that's the safest place to hold your hand.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-178	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes I can understand why people in the stands get tired of our debates. It's when you don't get a sensible answer to a simple question you actually ask, and I think it was now. My question was very direct. Do you think it would be good to abolish military service? Are you satisfied with what happened with the human resources and the people's attachment to the defense? Are you prepared to reconsider this position? To further cloud the joy cup for the moderate defence policy a little bit: In fact, you don't spend a crown more on the defense than the Left Party does – not a crown! However, you are not prepared to reintroduce military service. Can't you see it was a mistake you made?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-181	Mr President, I would like to Before the transition from the old invasion to the modern intervention defense, it took a long time for those we had then on duty to get on their feet. It could take over a year. Now we have an environment where the security situation can change very quickly, and that places new demands on the defence. It is against this background that it is important to strengthen our operational capabilities. It's not usually the Left Party that's the best friend of all. However, Sweden needs a defence that can quickly get on its feet and that quickly has education and equipment as well as motivated soldiers and sailors who can do the job, namely defend peace and freedom in a very uncertain environment. It requires sharpness and development where volunteering is the foundation and where it is the result that counts– not how many Jonas Sjöstedt can force, as it used to be.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-183	Mr President, I would like to In the autumn of 2015, I would say, goes to history as one of the absolutely darkest periods ever in this country. We had to witness a total asylum chaos as a result of the collapse of the EU's external border and, not least, as a result of a colossal irresponsible immigration policy in Sweden. Apart from the very worst extremists here, we in this House now seem to have finally come to quite a deal at least that it did not last any longer. We have been agreed that the situation became so serious that even the other parties here in Parliament, who have previously denied all the problems related to large immigration, saw themselves forced to take relatively drastic measures – at least by Swedish standards. What used to be called a "racism" is now a realism. What was previously considered completely impossible is now suddenly absolutely necessary. What was previously claimed to be inhumane is now suddenly taking responsibility. It is quite amazing how quickly politics can turn sometimes, Mr President. Of course, it is difficult to say so much about the actual impact of the somewhat more restrictive policy in the longer term. Judging from what has happened in the short term, it seems that asylum pressure on Sweden has decreased some. However, it is not self-evident that it has to do with the policies that are being pursued, at least not fully, but it remains to be seen. Clearly, the problems caused by the more or less uncontrolled immigration of autumn remain. This concerns the burden on the reception system, the collapse and the strain on municipalities and welfare. This applies to tens of thousands of children and young people who are going to attend school, have teachers and native speakers. This applies to healthcare – we can take a look at any emergency department in Sweden today and the workload there, as well as the lack of space and staff. We see previously rare or even unknown infections and infections. We see housing shortages, unemployment, exclusion, segregation and crime. I remember so well the party leader debate in Agenda on 10 May last year, Mr President, when Stefan Löfven spoke of the fact that the pressure on asylum in Sweden would mean what he called A little effort! I thought it was remarkable then, but now after the six months that have passed and the enormous strain on the Swedish society we see and have seen, I have to say that this statement goes to history as one of the most casual a Swedish Prime Minister has ever hatched out in political contexts. It shows a complete lack of realism and an understanding of how it looks in society. It shows a complete lack of understanding of how troubled people are and how affected people are by this breakdown. This applies to both native Swedes and previously immigrant people in our country. It became clear to everyone that our system needs relief in the form of much less extensive immigration. It is not enough, however, but temporary residence permits must be the rule for those who have already come to Sweden. You can stay here, if you are here, as long as you have protection needs. However, I also believe that it needs to be investigated how permanent residence permits that have already been issued since the collapse of the EU's external border can be converted into temporary residence permits, because the seriousness of the situation requires such a solution. Mr President, I would like to The burden on welfare and other vital social functions will have consequences for a long time to come. In a longer perspective, we also face deeper and larger problems that erode the very foundation of this society. We're already seeing it. We see that it takes special pools in swimming pools for men and women to deal with sexual crime. We see men who, for cultural reasons, refuse to take their female bosses or employees in hand being given high-quality compensation for being discriminated against. We are already seeing this, Mr President, but we will see even more of it in the future. In recent days, the debate has largely been marked by a phenomenon of widespread sexual crime in connection with larger crowds. There are groups of foreign men who surround and molest women in public places. First, the events of the New Year's weekend were noted in Cologne and then Kungsträdgården in Stockholm. Then it has become clear that this is something that has happened in a number of places in our country in recent times. It is a new phenomenon, at least for us in Sweden and this part of the world, and obviously also a more widespread phenomenon than has been anticipated so far. The debate so far has focused on how different actors, the police and the media, have chosen to cover up these events and who is behind them. It is of course very bad in itself. The work of public authorities shall be non-consequential. But we have a serious problem if it is that party political considerations are allowed to govern what information the various authorities share with the public. That is totally unacceptable. Similarly, it is totally unacceptable for the police to ignore the interests of victims of crime for political or even party political reasons. That is totally unacceptable. I can't let that happen. However, judging from what has emerged in recent days, there is reason to fear that this, unfortunately, is not an isolated case. The cards must be on the table, and those responsible for this must bear the consequences. Then, Mr President, there is another part that has not really been given the same space in the debate, at least not so far, and it is the fact that this is happening at all and that it is happening in Sweden now that we are writing in 2016. It is an even bigger and more serious problem. A moment ago, I asked the Prime Minister about the importance of culture. Are there cultural differences and, if so, do they have a bearing on how people behave? The Prime Minister's answer to that was really no. For me, the answer to the question is the other way around, quite obviously, yes. The events in Cologne, Kungsträdgården and the other places where what I have just mentioned are, above all, expressions of such cultural differences. This raises a bigger issue of integration. What does integration mean? When is someone to be considered as integrated? Yes, should we listen to both the government and the bourgeois so-called opposition, integration is defined based on work and employment. If you have employment, you are an example of a functioning integration process. This means in practice that the men who abused girls in Kungsträdgården should be seen as integrated into Swedish society, as long as they have an employment. And, Mr President, I do not share that view. I think it's wrong. Of course, as many people as possible who live in this country should have a job and a livelihood, whether you were born here or whether you were born in another country. And of course, as far as possible, we should utilise and validate the expertise that comes to Sweden from other countries, but that is not enough for integration to be completed. We have to deal with the delusion that you are integrated simply because you have a job or because you have employment in general because culture plays a crucial role. Standards, values and attitudes matter. They are also the causes of certain behaviors. As mentioned in this debate, over the last decade we have come a very long way in the work on equality and in our view of the relationship between men and women. Equality, equal treatment, is fundamental in our country. If you, as an immigrant in Sweden, are not prepared to respect such a fundamental part of our society, but instead choose to act and behave on the basis of your own cultural conditions, then, Mr President, you have nothing to do in our country at all.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-201	Mr President, I would like to Only when it comes to the question of immigration and refugees must Jimmie Åkesson have seen what happened between May and September. Last year we had one of the worst refugee crises in history, at least since the Second World War, with 60 million refugees, many outside their own countries. I am proud that Sweden has accepted people who are on the run because they are fleeing for their lives. Then I'm proud that we can provide that protection. But the government is also doing what is necessary for us to be able to deal with refugee reception in the short term, but also the societal challenges and opportunities that lie in the longer term. This government will do whatever it takes. We are not against immigration for ideological reasons as the Swedish Democrats are. In addition, the Swedish Democrats cut down by 90 billion on the municipalities. How is it going to make things better for the people in our country when you cut down by 90 billion? Why are you focusing on the establishment possibilities? How will it be better when you cut the opportunity for people to get into work and education? Mr President, let me make another point which concerns me very much. We all know that the Swedish Democrats are against immigration, but we need a deeper analysis of what the Swedish Democrats really are. My question is: why do you have such contempt for democracy? It appears time and again among your grass roots and high-ranking representatives, and let me give you a few examples. The chairman of the Swedish Democrats in Lund wants to remove police chiefs who do not like the Swedish Democrats. Your party secretary highlights Hungary as an example in terms of media and freedom of expression. And one of your spokespersons is talking about the media being stopped in due course. What does that mean? Why this contempt for democracy, Jimmie Åkesson?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-206	Mr President, I would like to I do not despise democracy – quite the contrary. I respect democracy. I am extremely pleased and proud that I live in a country where democracy has been able to develop in a relatively, at least by international standards, good way. But there are also democratic shortcomings in Swedish society. What Stefan Löfven started this shift by talking about, immigration policy, has been a typical example of an issue in which the democratic deficit has been poor. For decades, people have been worried about how Swedish society is developing, worried about how welfare will go, with their own jobs, for children in school and so on. But they have not dared to express themselves, for if they have done so, Stefan Löfven and his friends in the Social Democrats or, unfortunately, the other parties in this Assembly have come forward with the racist stamp and slapped it in the face of every one who has made a critical statement about the irresponsible policy that has been pursued. Now things have changed in Swedish society, partly due to the fact that reality has caught up with Stefan Löfven and the other parties in the Swedish parliament, and that is good. It is only a pity that it had to happen after the collapse that Sweden faced and that the Swedish reception system unfortunately suffered. It is sad that it would have to go so far before Stefan Löfven and the other parties in this House began to respect people's concerns and respect people's democratic rights and freedoms to express critical views on the conduct of politics in Sweden.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-209	Mr President, I would like to I've spent quite a few years in the world of work, Jimmie Åkesson. I have taken note, not least, of the concerns expressed by people, and I understand it very well. It is due to concerns about unemployment and a lack of social security. It is due not least to eight years of right-wing politics that your party supports. It becomes unsafe if you do not see your chance at the next job, if you do not see your chance at housing, if you are not able to get out to work as a young person. Then anxiety is born. That is what we are going to do something about, but then we need a real job agenda. There is no need for right-wing policies and tax cuts that you support. The second thing about democracy is that there needs to be a deeper analysis of what the Swedish Democrats are for party. You all too often express, as I said, that police officers who do not have the same opinion as you are to be fired, and you express freedom of the media and the press in a way that no other party does. Stand up for democracy, Jimmie Åkesson, or tell me you don't!
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-213	Mr President, I would like to This is almost as embarrassing as the last line shift me and Stefan Löfven had there an individual event or an individual statement, in some case a dissipated quote from a not even named party member, used as a revenue for what we think and what I think. Read our principle program! There is a whole chapter on democracy. I've studied democracy theory at the university. I know very well how I feel about democracy. I stand behind democracy. I respect the democratic system we have in this country. I can't be any clearer than that. On the other hand, I am concerned about democratic shortcomings in Swedish society, which, unfortunately, Stefan Löfven and others in this House are responsible for in practice. It is not about what any individual social democrat has said, but about how it works in practice. That people in our country are afraid to say what they think is a democratic deficit that both me and Stefan Löfven should worry about.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-216	Mr President, I would like to There has been some talk about the concern about jobs. I was going to ask what Jimmie Åkesson is doing about this concern. The Council of Finance Ministers has clearly shown that the government's increase in unemployment is increasing by 27 000 people. This corresponds to almost the whole of Ronneby municipality or three times Jimmie Åkesson's Sölvesborg. But that is clearly not enough because the Swedish Democrats want to raise unemployment even more, which will cost even more jobs. How many jobs does Jimmie Åkesson think it is reasonable that his grant increases should cost?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-219	Mr President, I would like to That's a funny question asked. I do not share the liberal view that improved protection systems create unemployment, at least not in the Swedish system as it stands. But this requires a longer and deeper discussion that I would like to take on another occasion, because a two-minute replica right is not suitable to explain this more closely to Anna Kinberg Batra. I am convinced that we need a well-developed security system for people who for some reason fall outside of work or are between two jobs. When we go into worse economic periods, it is bad if people lose their ability to consume, live and make a living. I think Anna Kinberg Batra also understands that. Therefore, generous security systems are important. Anna Kinberg Batra may call this contribution, but in fact it is about insurance systems that we jointly build up and finance so that no human being will end up at the absolute bottom of society when, for example, one happens to lose a job or something like that. There are other things you can do to create jobs in this country. Perhaps the most important thing is to replace the government because it increases taxes and, in general, reduces growth opportunities, in fact, our society is at all deteriorating with its economic policies. However, Anna Kinberg Batra is completely uninterested in doing something about this. I regret that, because I believe that this is a much more important and heavier issue than adjustments to the unemployment fund.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-225	Mr President, I would like to In the past, the Swedish Democrats used to refer to the Council of Finance Ministers when they developed their economic policies. This shows why they may have stopped doing so. Jimmie Åkesson argues as if Sweden did not have security systems. But what I wonder is why Jimmie Åkesson wants to go further to the left than the current government does. That is my question. Sweden has and should have generous security systems, but what I wonder is what employment policy looks like. Why is Sweden stronger by Jimmie Åkesson standing to the left of Stefan Löfven, going even further than the government and raising the contributions most? Jimmie Åkesson puts the power and contributions to those who do not work before the jobs and a credible economic policy. It's like Stefan Löfven – only worse.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-228	Mr President, I would like to I would like to recall that before we got the bourgeois government a little over nine years ago, one of the electoral promises was that Sweden would have a general, compulsory unemployment fund. We never did because Fredrik Reinfeldt changed his mind for some reason. But that is how I look at this issue. We need to see this in a broader perspective. I want a general, compulsory unemployment fund that's tax-financed. I want the security systems to be merged. That also applies to health insurance. This applies to Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, which should become a common authority, and so on. We can discuss an increase of one hundred in one direction or the other in compensation levels, but that does not mean anything in practice. What really matters is people's ability to make a living on their own even when they lose their jobs. It's important.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-231	Mr President, I would like to There is much to be said about the Swedish Democrats' proposal in the speaker's chair to throw out even more people from Sweden. This policy already had the Swedish Democrats when 30 000 immigrants arrived in Sweden for a year. Last year, when we had over 160 000, the Swedish Democrats returned with the same proposal. It is not good for Sweden, and it is not good for the treatment of these people. It is funny that the Swedish Democrats say that in the situation we have in the world with over 60 million people fleeing, they want to help in the immediate area. In practice, the Swedish Democrats are taking away even more from the poor countries' ability to become more stable countries that can work against terrorism and create societies from which people do not have to flee. They do this by denying refugees the opportunity to come and work in Sweden and send money to their home countries. It is by far the most important economic transaction to the poorest countries in the world, and the Swedish Democrats want to move away from it. Then it is not serious to say that they want to help in the neighbourhood.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-235	Mr President, I would like to I can ask the same question back. How does Åsa Romson get her politics together? Åsa Romson talks about people fleeing here and working to send money back to her home country. Is Åsa Romson aware of how many of the asylum seekers have come to Sweden who are unemployed and have no employment? That's a pretty significant part. On the other hand, what knocks away the bones so that the neighbouring countries can stabilise and cope with the situation of the greatest refugee disaster ever is the fact that Åsa Romson's government chooses to focus on grants and housing for people seeking to our country instead of helping on site in the immediate area, where the vast majority of these 60 million refugees are located. There were 163 000 asylum seekers to Sweden last year. There are an enormous number of people for our country to take care of in welfare systems and other things. I think we agree on that. But there are not very many people in relation to the number 60 million; there are quite few. Yet Åsa Romson chooses to focus on helping these 163 000 people in front of the others who remain in their home countries or in the immediate neighbourhood. The reason why these countries cannot stabilise and fail to deal with the situation is because we are giving the wrong priority. Swedish refugee policy above all and perhaps Western refugee policy in general is mispriority and misdirected. We must do something about that if the aim and the starting point is to help as many people escape as possible. I question whether this is Åsa Romson's starting point.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-240	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson is aware that Sweden is one of the largest contributors to, for example, UNHCR. We are one of those who do the most to help people in the absolute neighbourhood who are already on the run. We are also a superpower in the world in terms of aid work and development cooperation. But here the Swedish Democrats evade 8 billion to long-term development work and poverty reduction from Sida's budget. Is it not poverty that drives both people on the run and terrorism in the world, Jimmie Åkesson? How can you withdraw that money from the work that Sweden and many other countries do and at the same time say what you say? Isn't it just a policy for shot yourself and shit in others that the Swedish Democrats are watching? To claim that Swedish housing policy would cause us to have a flow of refugees in the world of 60 million is quite strong.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-243	Mr President, I would like to If you read our budget and compare it with the government budget, it is quite clear that we give more aid than the government does. We also have effective aid. We're giving real aid. Much of the government's assistance is counted against the reception of refugees in Sweden. So aid money is being spent on immigration to Sweden, money that would go to emergency aid, refugee aid in the immediate area and development in the poorer part of the world. It is not enough to take the money from the well-being and everything else in this country, but it also takes money from the aid and spends it on grants and housing for people who go to Sweden. It's not an effective and humane refugee policy, Åsa Romson – you can't think that. It's completely up the walls. It is not a humane policy but an inefficient and poor refugee policy.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-246	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has repeatedly pointed out how the Swedish democrats at European level consistently support Vladimir Putin. Since entering the European Parliament, the Swedish democrats, together with their nationalist friends, have, among other things, abstained from supporting resolutions criticising Russia, said no to association agreements with a number of countries from the former Soviet bloc, voted against the abolition of customs duties for Moldova and voted against resolutions on the situation in Ukraine, no to tariff reductions to mitigate the impact of Russian import bans, no to technical and scientific cooperation with Ukraine and no to condemn Russia's suspension of the human rights organisation Memorial. We know that we have a very worrying development in Hungary, a country which the representatives of the Swedish Democrats are constantly highlighting as an example. We have a very worrying development in Poland, but we do not hear any condemnation from the Swedish Democrats. Just before Christmas, the European Parliament was to adopt the annual report on human rights and democracy. One of the key points was to condemn Belarus, which has again begun to execute people. The Swedish Democrats abstained. A picture emerges of a Europe in which democratic values are challenged and where parties like the Swedish Democrats allow this to happen or sometimes even welcome it. The natural question then becomes: how is it that the Swedish Democrats in the European Parliament consistently stand on the side that does not stand up for human rights and does not defend fundamental democratic values?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-251	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether this is the fourth, fifth or umpteenth time that the Center Party is raising this issue in this context. My answer has not changed since before: it is a very distorted picture of what it looks like. Of course you can argue that way. There is an enormous amount of text produced. Anders W Jonsson knows that. The reports and proposals contain an enormous amount. Sometimes you agree with some parts, sometimes you agree with most of it and sometimes you agree with a small part of something. That is what governs how one chooses to vote, not any single wording in a thick bibba with text anywhere. That kind of argument therefore becomes extremely dishonest. Or is it the case that the Centre Party in the European Parliament, for example, or in parliamentary work at all just buys everything completely uncritically? If they agree with a small part of a proposal or report, do they buy everything and vote for it completely uncritically? In that case, they should tell their voters, because that is not taking responsibility. The problem here, Mr President and Anders W Jonsson, is that we do not get any serious discussion about this if we argue in the way that Anders W Jonsson is doing here today. I can condemn executions in Belarus here and now. I condemn it. I condemn executions at all in all countries of the world because executions are wrong. If Anders W Jonsson thinks I don't think so, I think he should talk to me, because then he has completely misunderstood who I am and what I think.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-255	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson is always just as upset and indignant when you stand in this Chamber and describe exactly how the Swedish Democrats choose to vote in votes in the European Parliament. But these are not isolated events, but consistent action by the Swedish Democrats in the European Parliament. I can understand that Jimmie Åkesson gets very upset when we put the puzzle. We have the pieces of the puzzle in front of us. We see the consistency of the actions of the Swedish Democrats in the European Parliament. Of course we put the puzzle, Jimmie Åkesson. We see where your actions point, and it points to something very dangerous for Europe, for Sweden and for democracy in the world. We must fight for democratic and human rights all the time, not least in Europe and Europe, as it stands today. Unfortunately, however, these values in practice do not seem to have any friends among those who represent your party in Brussels, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-258	Mr President, I would like to Let me explain how I reason. Our budget document, which we have presented here in Parliament, proposes better conditions for small businesses. For example, we want to reduce the costs of employer's contributions, sick pay and the like. We propose rather far-reaching measures to improve conditions in rural areas. It is a long list of proposals that I am absolutely convinced that Anders W Jonsson agrees with. However, he does not vote in favour of our draft budget, because there are things in which he does not agree. This is exactly what happens in the cases that Anders W Jonsson highlights. It's a dishonest argument. If you are not familiar with how a parliamentary assembly works, what Anders W Jonsson says may sound completely credible and sensible, but it is not. It is a dishonest argument in favour of this argument, I hope that the Center Party will vote for our draft budget next time that possibility exists.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-261	Mr President and Jimmie Åkesson! Swedish welfare is heavily privatised. Our elderly, our schoolchildren and our sick have become a gold mine for private profit. Billions of dollars that we have paid in taxes do not go to what they were intended for, to provide education and medical care, but instead go into the pockets of wealthy business owners. This fundamentally affects the Swedish welfare model. We see an increasingly unequal school that gives children different opportunities to get a good education. We see that healthcare receives the greatest investment in primary care, where the need for healthcare is sometimes the least. That's what those who work in welfare notice. When the interest in profit comes into the care of the elderly, the precarious employment becomes more and the coworkers fewer. The other day, a new poll was published, which is made up of those who work in private-run welfare. The members of Kommunal were asked: What do you think about this? Their answers are very clear. Among those who do the work in welfare, such as nurses and child care workers, nearly nine out of ten say that they want collective agreements to be a condition for running companies in welfare. Collective agreements are often lacking in private home care companies, for example. 93% believe that there should be demands on staffing. Eighty-four per cent of those working in private companies believe that profits should be reinvested and the money used for what they were intended for. But you don't think so, Jimmie Åkesson, and the Swedish Democrats don't. Why is it more important for you to listen to the owners of venture capital companies than the nurses?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-265	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that you as a politician should just listen to either one side, the other side or the third side, but I think it is good to listen to everyone and then form an idea of what you yourself, based on your values and your own analysis, think is right and proper. This is where I mean that Jonas Sjöstedt and the Left Party always gets stuck because they have ideological blindfolds on everything. In every context, it's a sight just straight ahead. You kind of don't see nuances, it's just straight ahead. It is regrettable, and it is the same in this discussion: anything that is private is bad. Everything that is private is driven by terrible, vicious capitalists who grab as much as possible of our common money, fire as much staff as possible, cut down as much as possible on the quality, try to make it as bad as possible for everyone who is a user in their business and so on. Somewhere it won't hold. If it were the case that the private sector was generally worse than the municipal sector, for example, in terms of quality, if it were more expensive than the municipal sector, if it were the case that the staff were more dissatisfied in the private context than in the public sector, then it would not be there. But it does! Hundreds of thousands of people in this country are today users of privately driven welfare, and hundreds of thousands of people are also affected in other ways, as relatives or not least as personnel in these companies. What will happen, when Jonas Sjöstedt has influence over these issues, is that all the hundreds of thousands of people in our country are no longer allowed to choose what they think is best and that suits their situation best. It is socialism in its utmost degree, and it is something I am strongly opposed to.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-269	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson comes with some of the usual, conscious misunderstandings that usually come from bourgeois debaters in the debate. No, no one in Sweden is against choosing which health centre you go to, for example. However, we want the money to go to health care to go there and nowhere else. No, it's not wrong with all the private performers. But they should use the tax money properly, and they should not use less staffing and less job security. That is what this debate is about. Jimmie Åkesson says you shouldn't listen to just one page. But, Jimmie Åkesson, who's been running in your corridors? Who's been having dinner with you? Who boasts that they have saved their billion-dollar profits and can go to the stock exchange because they became such good friends with the Swedish Democrats? It's a page. It's the venture capital companies. The question remains. It is so clear what the employees who do the job every day think. They think this is wrong. They think it would be better without profit. But you choose not to listen to them. Why, Jimmie Åkesson, do you listen to the venture capitalists but not the nurses?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-275	Mr President, I would like to As far as listening to everyone is concerned: the almost only ones, as far as I know, who have not run in our corridors are the Left Party. They moved away from our corridors for health and safety reasons. They did not want to hang out with Swedish democrats.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-276	Again: Now we have this with the blinders, that it's so bad, that those horrible kids are grabbing at themselves. Yes, there are those who do. I am opposed to them, just like Jonas Sjöstedt. I believe that the vast majority of people in this House are opposed to those who grab themselves, who are reducing the quality of welfare to grab themselves, who are firing staff to grab as much as possible, who are moving money to tax havens to get as much of our tax money as possible. I'm against it, too. But that is not what it is about in practice. In practice, we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who are very pleased with the choice they have made. Unlike Jonas Sjöstedt, I do not want to deprive them of that opportunity. That's where we split up.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-278	Mr President, I would like to Instead of hitting each other in the head about how many people are going to come to Sweden, I thought I would discuss his view on integration with Jimmie Åkesson. Even with the Swedish Democrats' budget and policy, if it were to have an impact in Sweden, there would be immigration. The Geneva Convention was written after World War II because countries had refused to accept Jews. They were sent back to Germany. The holocaust happened. The Geneva Convention, which imposes an obligation on countries to receive refugees, was then introduced if a number of criteria were met. Quite a few of those who now come to Sweden – not all of them, but quite a few – meet the very criteria set out in the international conventions that Sweden has undertaken to comply with. Even S verige democrats couldn't say they can't come. Then it becomes a question of how integration should work. I see that in their draft budget, the Swedish Democrats are withdrawing almost the entire appropriation for integration. This appropriation is intended, for example, for Swedish education. It is Swedish education for immigrants, for adult immigrants, and it is for children at school to learn the Swedish language. In principle, you break the whole Swedish education for those who come here. That would happen from 1 January, two weeks ago, if your budget had been passed. This would mean that Swedish education would be completely discontinued for those who came in last year. I listened earlier to Jimmie Åkesson's argument on integration, and I agree that it is not just job in terms of integration but that it is much else. But one condition for almost everything is that one sooner or later learn Swedish in order to be integrated. Jimmie Åkesson! How will the integration in Sweden be better if you completely discontinue Swedish education?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-284	Mr President, I would like to If Jan Björklund reads a little more carefully in our budget document, he will note that we spend more money on Swedish education than I think any other party in this congregation does relatively, that is, in relation to how many we calculate to come – significantly more money. I agree that Swedish education is important. Above all, I agree that the Swedish language is important for integration, perhaps the most important key, at least initially. The language is the key to not only being able to talk to each other. It's one thing to learn words and sentences. But it is also the key to understanding each other, and that is perhaps the most important thing. It is about understanding each other, understanding Swedish society and understanding Swedish culture in order to become a part of it. It takes quite in-depth knowledge of the Swedish language to understand Swedish culture, understand social codes in Sweden and the like. That is why we think it is important, and that is why we invest quite a lot in Swedish education. But we also focus on other things that are important. That is a bit what I was trying to highlight in my speech. It's about things like social orientation, things like teaching how Swedish society works, things that we work with. Above all, we understand that many of those who come from a completely different part of the world not only physically but also mentally. They come to Sweden and are physically in Sweden, but mentally they are somewhere else in a completely different culture with completely different norms, values, attitudes and perceptions of what is right and wrong. That is what we must work on above all. It is remarkable that Jan Björklund now says that he also thinks that other than work is important. For eight years, the former People's Party, now the Liberals, has been responsible for integration policy in this country, and the only thing that has been talked about is jobs. Congratulations on finally coming to light! Unfortunately, it is far too late.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-288	Mr President, I would like to Was it embarrassing that Jimmie Åkesson used as words in her previous line? I say this: Swedish education is important, and that's why you have to bet. I'm asking Jimmie Åkesson why he's cutting it down. Then Jimmie Åkesson answers, says that it is important, tells how important it is and goes completely beyond the cuts. You say you cut down because there will be fewer, Jimmie Åkesson. Yes, but those who now attend Swedish education and who started the semester last week, they came here a year ago. They're already here. I guess it won't help if you cut down immigration in the future. Those who attend Swedish education are already here. And they weren't the ones who came last autumn, because they're in the asylum system. These are people who came one, two or three years ago. They're already here. They have a residence permit. They must learn Swedish. But that's where you cut down two-thirds. Stand and talk about how Swedish education is important! The truth is, you put it down! The implementation of this policy would create a disaster from the point of view of integration. And think, I think this is what you're after. You want integration to fail, because it is from the situation that migration fails that the Swedish democrats are feeding.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-292	Mr President, I would like to We want integration to fail, says Jan Björklund. No, but I do not think it will work as long as we do not manage immigration policy. On the other hand, one might wonder whether the Liberals want integration to fail, for it is, after all, those in this country who have been responsible for integration policy for the longest continuous period but have produced nothing but complete failures, at the cost of tens of billions of crowns. I think it is the Liberals who want integration to fail.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-294	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson usually talks about helping in the neighborhood. Last autumn we voted here in Parliament to establish closer links between the European Union and three European countries in our neighbourhood, which long suffered under Soviet communism and are still suffering from it. I am talking about Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. There are three nations in the border region between Europe and Russia who have seen their great eastern neighbour subjugated and violated time and again throughout history and who have too rarely had their way. Last autumn we were able to offer them a different, better future in here with the rest of Europe. Through so-called association agreements with the EU, the objective is to strengthen the independence of these nations so that their future is no longer dependent on the achievements of Putinryssland. These agreements will bring more and more free trade, democratic reforms, capital investment and steps towards a common foreign and security policy, that is, all that is needed to build these countries not only stronger but also freer. But the Swedish Democrats voted against. I want to know, Jimmie Åkesson : Do the Swedish Democrats think that the West has enough friends and Europe enough allies? Do you think that these countries in our neighbourhood have nothing to do with us and that we might as well extradite them to Putin?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-297	Mr President, I would like to This question is more complex than what Andreas Carlson is trying to show. It is true in substance that we have opposed these association agreements. It has essentially to do with our view of European cooperation. Andreas Carlson mentions here that the objective is to make the countries less dependent on Russia, and that is certainly an objective, but the ultimate objective of these agreements is a further enlargement of the European Union. We have been against it all along, and we are still opposed to continuing the enlargement of the European Union because it is already far too large and contains far too great cultural, social and economic differences for it to function in the long term. We are already seeing these problems today, and I am absolutely convinced that they would get even worse if we allowed countries such as those mentioned by Andreas Carlson as members of the European Union. That is the purpose here, and I am not prepared to go that way. That is our starting point. I understand that if you are a friend of European federalism and supranationalism in Europe – the Kristdemocrats are sometimes; when it is popular not to be, you are not, but basically you are in favour of this – you vote in a different way from us. I respect that. It really has nothing to do with Putin. You can support these countries, trade with them, and support them in other ways. It really has nothing to do with the enlargement of the European Union.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-301	Mr President, I would like to In these two minutes I hear a lot about what Jimmie Åkesson does not like about the European Union. I do not hear anything about what the Swedish Democrats want to do for the populations of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. These agreements are not agreements for membership of the European Union. There are many years and many votes left before we are there. This is about not leaving these three countries and their populations in the hands of Putin. I would therefore like to repeat my questions: what does Jimmie Åkesson want to do for the people of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia, now that you have voted against the association agreements? Do they have anything to do with us, or should we just leave them to Putin?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-303	Mr President, I would like to No, we're not leaving anyone to Putin. I don't think it's up to us to do it, and I don't think we have the power to do it either. On the other hand, we can support countries that need it in various ways by dealing with them and by contributing in different ways to their development. Of course, we will do that with these countries too. I respond to what Andreas Carlson says about the fact that it is a long time before we are there, that is, before these countries are members of the European Union. It says something about that actually being the goal for Andreas Carlson too. That's exactly what I'm talking about here. Each such step is another step towards that development and the final goal, and I do not want to take any step in that direction. I would rather do other things to support these countries, such as dealing with them and contributing to their development in different ways. I think it's pretty obvious. That's what we're gonna do with all the countries in our neighborhood.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-306	Mr President, I would like to In a world full of challenges, Sweden enters 2016 as a country that is growing and becoming stronger. We are becoming more people, we have a strong development of the economy and we have growth in civic engagement. We have rarely seen so much volunteer work as during the past autumn and Christmas holidays. This shows a force in Swedish society that has long been spoken silently about. As the need for concrete action has grown, such as giving refugees temporary shelter and food for the day, but also Swedish studies and sports, volunteers have shown their strength. The Green Party welcomes the new collaborations that have developed and developed between civil society and municipalities and authorities. Sweden becomes stronger when we help each other. It was like the sun came up. So said a 36-year-old man named Bassel when, after six months of SFI training, he took on the white medical coat and stepped into his new job at Helsingborg's hospital. Bassel grew up in a Palestinian refugee camp in Damascus but had obtained a specialist medical training, formed a family and had an apartment and summer house in his home country of Syria. When the war came, they had to flee. The family was threatened with death after Bassel had followed his principle as a doctor to treat all patients equally. The family fled across the Mediterranean and came to Skåne, and now they have found a new future. Mr President, I would like to In a world of 60 million people on the run, we need more sunshine stories like the one about Bassel. In 2015, Sweden received more than 160 000 people who fled from violence, war and terror. We, as a small country, are making a huge contribution. The people who come here have the driving forces to build their lives and competences that bring power to our society. It is therefore clear that a humane and effective refugee reception that provides rapid establishment is also an investment and an opportunity for Sweden to grow and develop. During the autumn we clearly saw that there were shortcomings in the Swedish reception and establishment processes. Sweden did not pass the reception that was then needed and required. Although municipalities, authorities and volunteers made enormous efforts, refugees were referred to sleeping in buses and tents or even on the street. The social services in several municipalities warned that they did not have time. We politicians should have ensured in the past that all municipalities in Sweden must take responsibility, and now there are proposals for new legislation for this. We should have seen and prevented the problems of social services in the past. Because I'm self-critical. It is clear that there is more power in Sweden. We can handle a good reception of refugees. Shortening the time for establishment is one of the most important tasks for Sweden in 2016. Education and matching are the foundation, but we should not be afraid to see the opportunity to stimulate more simple jobs. It's work for people, not just robots, and they don't require as many years on the school bench. The Green Party sees good opportunities to stimulate entrepreneurship and more services for households such as moving and repair services. A strengthened reception and a shorter establishment is a prerequisite for a humane refugee policy and more Bassel that enriches Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In a world full of challenges, Sweden stands strong and grows when 2016 begins. The number of teachers in Swedish schools is increasing, and youth unemployment has finally fallen. Sweden has every opportunity to become an even better country for our children and young people to grow up in. But this requires that we now make investments in what builds Sweden strong: in housing, in modern infrastructure that reduces climate emissions and in our children's teachers and schools. The opposition's eagerness to continue with major tax cuts and more job tax deductions is worrying. The Green Party's answer is clear: Sweden is growing and needs investment. We cannot do this with cuts. We must make joint investments. Mr President, I would like to A global flash of light last year was that the countries of the world agreed and adopted a first globally binding climate agreement. The fight against climate change is a global security effort for a more secure future. The agreement states that global warming must be kept as far below two degrees as possible; yes, preferably it should stop at one and a half degrees already. An extra light point last year was because global investments in climate-smart solutions grew strongly. Only during the climate summit were announced, among other things, from a group of the world's richest entrepreneurs – Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg, Amazon's Jeff Bezos and others – gigantic plans for investments in renewable energy. Several large pension funds also showed that they are already seeing a long-term better financial outcome from climate investments. And a few days after the Paris meeting ended, Trollhättan received a positive response when the car company Nevs ordered 150 000 electric cars. Now there are great opportunities to invest in Swedish innovations, in companies and in jobs. Many Swedish companies are well ahead. In fact, they were themselves involved in pushing for a global climate agreement. Ericsson's digital solutions, ABB's development of smart grids, Ikea's own production of renewable energy and Volvo Group's purposeful work for more efficient engines – this work makes a difference, not only in Sweden but also internationally. Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. We take responsibility for the climate, not just because it's right. That's also economically smart. No one can reduce climate emissions on their own. Cooperation is needed, both globally and nationally. The broad collaboration between municipalities and companies initiated by the government in Fossil-free Sweden prior to the climate summit will therefore continue. And the government's investment aid, Climate Change, is based on the involvement of the actors themselves and more than half of the funding. Applications that are currently assessed are assessed on the basis of climate benefits so that it becomes an effective and very powerful tool for reducing emissions through, for example, charging poles and more biogas, in both small and large cities in Sweden. Climate change is one of the government's responses to the climate summit and the new climate agreement. But I see that the opposition, with its opposition to climate change, is still the answer to how to reduce emissions in Sweden through their policies. Mr President, I would like to In the future, we will have fossil-free travel and transport. Therefore, Sweden is currently investing in electric buses and pure electric cars. New public transport is being built, and much-needed renovation of the railways is being reinforced. In the future, we will have 100% renewable energy. The investments multiply in self-produced electricity, on barns ds- and villa roofs and in the development of smart grids. This is investing in the future. Sweden enters 2016 as a country that is growing and becoming stronger. But it is based on good political discussions and decisions. I would therefore like, in conclusion, to welcome everyone in this House and politicians in all Swedish municipalities, regions and county councils to a really good new one in 2016. During this year, many important decisions need to be made for people in our country. Mr President, I would like to The political mission is responsible and difficult. It needs to be exercised with both reason and feeling. I would like to emphasise that we must allow politicians to have feelings when we discuss and debate politics. It's natural. One should be able to pull the smilbands in the face of other debaters but also be able to blink away a tear when the ma n talks about really difficult issues. Perhaps we, too, in this sector and this House, are affected by automation and robotics and, Gud forbid, are dismantling our own industry. That would be unfortunate.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-327	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Romson concluded her speech and has also stated in Dagens Nyheter that she is prepared to take responsibility. Today, we have noted a little to date that Sweden needs to continue to deal with the still acute refugee crisis. I am proud that Sweden has a humane and legally secure asylum system. That is what is now being tried. It also includes that the right to seek asylum and the right to stay are not the same. A yes is a yes, and then a no must be a no. Today, there are some 20 000 cases involving the expulsion of people who have been rejected. What does Åsa Romson want to do to make the expulsions more effective?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-330	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is behind regulated immigration. That means that a yes is a yes and a no is a no. But it also means a humane asylum policy and that enforcement of the decisions of the authorities, which the police in this case have to exercise, should be in accordance with both national and international standards. This means that everyone who receives a rejection in Sweden is not actually possible to reject. There is something called an enforcement obstacle. These are the rules that the police should stick to. If we break them, we would send people back to a situation that is not satisfactory under international rules or our own national rules. I assume that the Moderates, just as when they were in government, are behind the existence of those rules. At the same time, of course, there is work to be done when people who have received a 'no' are going back. However, we are now faced with an asylum policy that we are temporarily making less humane. Among other things, we limit family reunification. It is an extremely drastic and extremely regrettable measure that we shall try to remove as quickly as possible. One reason is that it impairs establishment. It reduces the opportunities for Sweden to take advantage of and build on the opportunities of immigration. It has also been a long-standing position of the previous alliance government, as well as a majority of the parties in this House. Do the Moderates support that there should be a most temporary change in Swedish asylum policy?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-334	Mr President, I would like to 2016 has started with various representatives of the government expressing a variety of personal views. But now I asked Åsa Romson how the rejections will be more effective. I didn't quite get the answer. I brought with me the regulation letter for the Police Authority and the regulation letter for the Migration Agency that the government, in which Åsa Romson sits, has issued. It clearly states that a mission is to further strengthen the implementation of expulsion decisions with a view to significantly increasing the number of decisions taken. It is to maintain and implement a legally secure and humane asylum system and ensure that it works. My question was: What is Åsa Romson prepared to do to ensure that more such expulsions are carried out?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-337	Mr President, I would like to I think I answered that question quite carefully. Anna Kinberg Batra also shows what assignments and clear directives the government, including the Green Party, has given to the authorities. I am, on the other hand, problematizing the issue. At Anna Kinberg Batra it sometimes, when the issue is raised in this way, sounds like it goes without saying that everyone who receives a "no" should go back to their home countries by turning mail. That was not the case under the alliance government. That is not the case now, either, because there are obstacles to enforcement. Are you prepared to change the rules in order for the police to help send back people even when these enforcement obstacles exist, Anna Kinberg Batra? That must be my supplementary question because you obviously did not think I answered the first time.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-340	Mr President, I would like to 2015 was rightly called a fateful year for the climate. In Paris, the world supported an agreement that limits global warming to a maximum of two degrees, preferably one and a half degrees. The fact that the agreement became a reality was a very good news from last year. I appreciate the work of the Green Party in government and, not least, the efforts of the Minister for the Environment. On the other hand, the agreement is formulated in such a way that it depends very much on what each country chooses to do. Here I get more worried. The big question for Sweden is: How can we continue to reduce emissions while there will be stronger growth and also greater vitality throughout the country? It is clear to us in the Center Party that the most important thing to use in this situation is economic instruments, what we call green tax exchange. This means raising taxes on bad things, i.e. environmental damage, and lowering taxes on what we want, that is, what creates growth, jobs and entrepreneurship. This principle has also been supported by the Green Party, at least in words. One can still read on the Green Party website that taxes should be increased on what pollutes the environment and lowered on what creates new jobs. Unfortunately, we do not see any result of this. We have seen massive tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship. In addition, we have seen tax increases on biofuels, solar taxes, wind taxes and taxes on renewable energy. We have not seen any tax increases at all. My question to Åsa Romson then is: Were the promises of green tax exchange that instead became red tax increases in the election movement just a lip service? Or when will government positions deliver a truly green tax exchange?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-345	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has had only one official green tax exchange in modern times, and it was during the 1990s when the Green Party and the Social Democrats implemented 30 billion in tax exchange over a ten-year period. When the Alliance took power in 2006, it ended by halting the green tax shift in the budget. This was done together with the Center of Government. It is true that both our parties represent the line that it would be good to have a green tax shift, that is to say, to increase taxes on what is bad for the environment and to reduce taxes on labour. But Anders W Jonsson is also aware that the Green Party has joined a government with the Social Democrats after eight years of alliance policy that has reduced taxes in Sweden by over 130 billion. We in the government are now raising taxes by about 30 billion, of which 5 billion are environmental taxes. It is not a sign of opposition to green tax exchange, but a sign that, unfortunately, since the 1990s, the parties have not been able to agree on the tax burden, i.e. how much taxes they need to collect in order to cope with expenditure. I and the Green Party welcome broad tax talks where we address higher and more controlling environmental taxes. It's running this government right now.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-349	Mr President, I would like to This is what surprises so many voters. The Green Party, like the Center Party, has pushed for green tax change. Green tax shifting means lowering taxes on things that are good, that is to say on jobs and entrepreneurship. Then you increase the tax on bad things, that is, pollution. That is what we applied during our reign. But now that the Green Party has come into government, we are getting huge tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship. In addition, we are getting tax increases on things that are very good, namely biofuels, solar tax, wind energy tax, renewable energy tax. This is what is so surprising to understand for many environmentally concerned voters. So my question remains: when will the real proposals from the government that involve reductions in the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship and increases in the tax on what is environmentally damaging, that is, what we in the Center Party presented last autumn in our draft budget?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-351	Mr President, I would like to After all, the Center Party was opposed to one of the biggest tax increases carried out for environmental reasons, i.e. energy, petrol and diesel taxes. Most economists have pointed to this as the most broad economic instrument for bringing about what we are talking about, namely an increased tax on fossil fuel. It is true that it provides opportunities for income so that one can reduce, among other things, taxes on labour. It is true that this government has not delivered tax reductions on labour to any significant extent. Together with the Center Party, among other things, we have discussed the extension of the RUT deductions. It is one way of giving tax subsidies to work and entrepreneurship in small businesses. I hope the Center still thinks it's good. But the surprise is somewhat strange because it was the Center Party that sat in the government the only time that Swedish politics has officially abolished green tax exchange in the state budget. This was done in 2006. Now you are surprised that there is no green tax exchange, but it was you who abolished it.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-354	Mr President, I would like to Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson! The government of which the Green Party is a member has implemented historical austerity in asylum policy. Just before Christmas came the decision to introduce ID checks to prevent asylum seekers from even getting to the border to apply for asylum. The stated aim was to limit the possibility for asylum seekers to get to Sweden, and it seems that you have succeeded. The number of asylum seekers is falling sharply. This has not only had effects in Sweden, but it has also affected our neighbouring countries. Since the announcement of the decision, Norway has tightened its legislation. Finland has done the same. Denmark has established limited border controls at the border with Germany. It depends directly on the Swedish decision. At the moment, Swedish Television reports that Germany is increasing its expulsions to Austria with reference to the Swedish decision on ID controls. The Austrian Chancellor is talking about tightening up the border guard, probably against Slovenia. It seems that the government's asylum policy is now overturning the dominoes throughout Europe. The stated objective of the proposal on identity checks was that other countries should take more responsibility – a very sympathetic objective, I think. How do you think that's going, Åsa Romson?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-358	Mr President, I would like to After all, it is not a decision that I believe any of those in this House who took part in it had in their election manifesto and election programme. It was about acting in a situation where action is needed. For reasons of order, ID checks were introduced on the ferries from Germany already in connection with the Swedish internal border control. For the same reason, these ID controls have been introduced on trains, buses and ferries at Öresund. It is aggravating for the region, and just as Sweden has clearly stated in the EU, this is something that the Swedish Government hopes to abolish as soon as possible. But there is a need for order in that traffic so that you feel more secure with it. The larger package that I know Jonas Sjöstedt wants to raise is, of course, the more restrictive asylum rules. Their temporary application is an important message to ensure that there is a debate in Europe about Europe having to take humane responsibility and create legal paths. It is already difficult to get to Europe as a refugee. It's a bit strong to say that it's all about the ID controls between Denmark and Sweden. In this global situation, it is already too difficult to get to Europe as a refugee. Europe must take greater responsibility there, and the talks must move forward. We from the government have begun such talks. I cannot make an evaluation of them today, but the talks in Europe must go the way that we can cooperate and be humane in the situation that the world is facing.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-363	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to discuss how we can create a more humane refugee policy, more legal ways and a common European responsibility. All of this is necessary. The problem is that the policy now being implemented with the ID controls is closing legal paths. It forces refugees into the hands of smugglers and increases the desperate attempts to escape. It also contributes to a domino effect when country after country tries to keep asylum seekers away. That is the real consequence of the policy that the Green Party is pursuing at the moment, and I very much regret that. It is the opposite of joint responsibility, of legal ways and of legal certainty. Morgan Johansson spoke in the Danish newspaper Politiken last Sunday. He said the opposite of what the government has said before. He said that we in Sweden want Denmark to tighten up border controls against Germany, that Denmark makes it even more difficult for refugees to enter Denmark. This is what the Swedish Minister of Justice says to a neighbouring country, contrary to the intentions that it wants other countries to take greater responsibility. Does the Green Party share that view? Should Denmark tighten its border controls in order to reduce the number of asylum seekers?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-366	Mr President, I would like to Denmark, like several other European and Nordic countries, should have a more humane refugee policy and ensure that their reception and establishment systems are able to cope with a larger flow of refugees – which we need to work with also in Sweden – now that the world looks like it does. It is a responsibility that we have as countries, and that is what I am discussing with my party colleagues and with the ministerial colleagues from the other Nordic and European countries that I meet. That is our joint responsibility. In the case of border controls, it may also be a question of controlling the current. When Sweden introduced internal border control, it meant in a first step that we received more asylum applications, when people who had intended to go further and wanted to use Sweden as a transit country to Finland or Norway got more difficult to do so and therefore instead applied for asylum in Sweden. I assume that we will have a future in which Denmark, like other Nordic and European countries, will take greater responsibility in the reception of asylum.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-369	Mr President, I would like to I and the Liberals share the view of the Green Party and the Government that Sweden should be fossil-free in the future. On Thursday, however, there was a very strong warning about what I believe is the greatest threat to that objective, at least for the foreseeable future. Vattenfall stated in Dagens Industri that even the six nuclear reactors that remain if the four oldest are closed may be shut down in the very near future because of the power tax. They talk about the year 2020. It's only a few years away. These are reactors that could probably be operated up to the 2040s with met safety requirements and deliver very fossil-free electricity in Sweden. Should they be closed down, Sweden will lose a significant part of its electricity supply, and this will lead to a large electricity shortage in Sweden. You can always cover this with imports, but then you have to understand that what you import is Russian gas and German coal power – possibly you can also imagine the expanded Finnish nuclear power. That would mean a major change in the situation. Sweden has been self-sufficient in electricity and even exported electricity, which we are also doing right now. It would be a dramatic change that would dramatically threaten the goal of a fossil-free Sweden. You just point out the impact tax. It's very clear. It's the one that makes it tip over. Then it is also due to a wide range of other effects, with falling electricity prices in the world, American shale gas and all that is now, but what we could influence ourselves is the impact tax. Is the government prepared to discuss the abolition of the impact tax?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-374	Mr President, I would like to The impact tax has existed for a long time and has been advocated by several parties in this House. It has been seen as reasonable, albeit with slightly different arguments. It has been seen as a tax on over-profits from a sector that produced when the price of electricity was very high, but also as compensation for the fact that nuclear power, for example, does not bear its full insurance costs. I don't know about the headline in Dagens Industri, but all analysts point to the relationship between the effect tax and the other small factors that Jan Björklund addresses. These are actually quite big factors, let's say. The price of electricity is probably the factor that makes the switch levers very visible in the electricity sector. It is currently difficult for all electricity producers to find profitability. This is, of course, a situation that should be discussed widely, just like other situations in the energy sector. As I said in a previous line, I welcome the fact that we have a broad energy commission in place with a broad mandate to discuss energy policy issues. I think we have a strong consensus that we should have energy production in Sweden that ensures good access to electricity in Sweden and that electricity production should also be fossil-free.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-377	Mr President, I would like to I would like the Minister for Climate Change to clarify the answer to the question, because it was unclear to me. There is no doubt that falling electricity prices in the world are the main cause. No power companies across Europe are profitable. Almost nothing pays off if it is not subsidised. No power stations are worth building today if they are not subsidised, whatever the power levels. It's perfectly clear. It is only that we cannot influence electricity prices in the world, while we can influence the impact tax by decisions of us sitting in this House. That is what we can change, and that would change the situation drastically. Vattenfall points to that. If this changes, the conditions change completely. I repeat the question and hope for a clear and concrete answer. Is the government prepared to discuss the abolition of the impact tax?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-380	Mr President, I would like to We have a broad energy commission with a broad mandate to discuss the issues that are needed. I am not in the speaker's chair and I am negotiating the budget today. In practice, all the parties in this House have tabled draft budgets. You are doing some kind of tax exchange with other taxes, which means that this has a financial impact on the state budget. Of course, there will be more analyses of the impact tax for the future, but also of the costs of various other types of energy, I would say. What Vattenfall says is not that the impact tax is the only decisive factor, but they point to a number of factors. I believe that the consequences of electricity prices far exceed those of the power tax. Most recently – before this government – this was raised by the alliance government, so it is not something new under the sun on that point either. I believe in fossil-free in the future. It can be quick, but it should also be done gently.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-383	Mr President, I would like to During the autumn, we saw a sharp shift in migration policy from the government. The Green Party took part in the decision to place the Swedish reception at the EU minimum level and introduce ID controls. The Christian Democrats have previously made proposals to reduce the costs of receiving refugees and reduce the pressure in the Swedish asylum reception system. Our party leader Göran Hägglund made proposals already in December 2014, including the introduction of temporary residence permits. Only in the party leader debate here in the Riksdag in October, Åsa Romson's spokesperson Gustav Fridolin criticized the Christian Democrats for our shift in migration policy. A lot has happened in a short time since then. The measures presented by the government have been aimed at significantly reducing the number of asylum seekers. The measures are temporary and shall be valid for three years. My question, Mr President, to Åsa Romson is: How many will Sweden be able to help and receive in three years' time, and what efforts does Åsa Romson see required to make it?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-387	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. In my speech, I pointed to the work of speeding up the times of establishment in Sweden. I think the single most important thing is how anyone can go from being a refugee according to our concept to being the teacher, student, mason, plumber or engineer that society needs and that person feels a dignity in being. This work needs to be carried out with many measures. The government announced early this autumn very large and extensive reorganisations of reception systems and establishment, but we have also been clear that this will have to continue to work with. I am happy to do so in broad discussion with the other parties. If this is to be sustainable and stable, we need to agree reasonably that we have an opportunity when Sweden grows. That's an idea, because we're a small country. A global crisis that we see for the refugee situation reminds us rather that we must be prepared for further great deeds in Sweden. For this we will strengthen our society.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-389	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are pursuing a policy of sustainable reception both today and tomorrow. It is a moral duty to help, but to do so requires more than the government has presented. Åsa Romson gives no credible answers on how we can help and increase our reception in three years' time. I would like to see clearer answers from the Deputy Prime Minister here. It is also strange and even offensive that the Green Party – now that the needs are greatest in our world – is involved in abolishing the tax reduction for donations to non-profit activities. Despite the fine words in the speech from the Deputy Prime Minister on the significant efforts of the non-profit sector to enable us to help more people, Åsa Romson does not seem to appreciate the non-profit relief activities that make such great efforts but rather wants to tax them. It's strange that the Green Party thinks this way. Or is this also an issue in which you are actually opposed to change but are voting in favour of government meetings?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-391	Mr President, I would like to It is very important to see the power that exists in Swedish civil society. Cooperation opportunities between municipalities and authorities and civil society can be developed and strengthened. We have seen this in the autumn. That is something we in this House and in the government will continue to keep an eye on. As far as the parties' attitude towards tax deductions is concerned, it is clear that in opposition the Green Party did not think that the construction of the tax deduction for gifts was the most successful. When we look at start-up and reception interventions, all the changes we make are important. The Prime Minister described them very clearly in his speech. This applies to both housing construction and school halls. We are clearly increasing the standard and ensuring that it is the schools that take the most responsibility and need the resources most that receive more of the resources. It is a change in the standard from that which the Alliance Government had and several other important measures that we are doing. This changes and strengthens Sweden in the reception and establishment of refugees.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-394	Mr President, I would like to 13 days ago the New Year's bells rang over Sweden. They called for a country that has to deal with more asylum seekers than ever before. The bells rang for a country that has been re-evaluated the threat of terrorism and extremism following serious events in our surrounding world. They called for a country affected by insecurity, arson, violence and xenophobia. The New Year's bells rang with a ring of seriousness, a serious tone at a serious time. Much of what has happened in the past year has had a fundamental impact on Swedish society. But New Year's bells also rang for a country where in the middle of the year there is reason to feel hope for a Sweden with great opportunities, et Sweden in strong need of a government that shows leadership and responsibility. When 2015 became 2016 it was the ninth consecutive time that New Year's bells rang in a country ruled with an annual budget. That is one of the reasons why it now looks very bright. For nine years Sweden has been governed by the Alliance's economic policy. In a government position, we conducted a policy that believes in people. We reduced the cost of jobs and entrepreneurship. We took responsibility for the order of the state's finances. These are the things that lay the foundation for growth and development. This is the kind of policy that produces results. If you read the December compilations of indicators from the Statistical Office, it becomes clear that growth in the Swedish economy is now strong. The trend in the labour market is positive and the employment rate is rising from already high levels. Industrial production has also increased. Trade shows positive figures. Household consumption has turned upwards. Of course, there are also less positive figures, for example as regards the development of the services sector. But overall, it now looks bright. Just before Christmas, the Long-Term Investigation presented its report. It, too, is joyful reading. The study predicts that the prosperity of our country by the year 2060 will double and perhaps more. Sweden, as it writes, is well placed to successfully meet future challenges. Mr President, I would like to In these times when the situation is in many ways serious both in our surrounding world and in several places also here in Sweden, it is particularly important that we see the whole picture. We also need to see all that is positive, see what is hopeful. If we see the whole picture, both light and darkness, both challenges and opportunities, we also see a picture of society and the outside world that calls for reflection. It shows the need to take responsibility, not only in the short term but also in the long term. The long-term investigation speaks clearly. D one also speaks broadly the language of the Center Party. It shares our view of a Sweden with a strong economy and good conditions. But it also sees the long-term challenges that we have been pointing out for a long time. The need for greater labour market mobility is becoming increasingly evident. The rigid regulations in the labour market are completely out of date. D poor functioning of the housing market is both a problem for housing supply and a further obstacle to jobs. When it comes to the housing market, the problems have been highlighted by the European Commission, such as the International Monetary Fund and the OECD. Votes for reform are growing. The need for long-term responsibility is great. It's bigger than it's been in a long time. Sweden faces major challenges when it comes to achieving a well-functioning reception of asylum seekers. By the agreement reached by the government with the Alliance in October, the Center Party has been involved in taking responsibility. But more needs to be done. Not least, the conditions for getting to work and finding housing for all those who have already applied to Sweden need to be improved considerably. We in the Center Party have put forward a wide range of proposals which can further increase the efficiency of reception and also reforms which will enable us to create a clear path from war and flight to work and housing. Mr President, I would like to If we fail to meet the challenges, Sweden will soon face very big problems. A responsible government would, with this background, initiate reforms for better integration. A responsible government would take the challenges seriously by opening up the labour market one and the housing market one for more. A responsible government would continue to reduce the cost of jobs and entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, Sweden does not have a government that puts forward reform proposals in these areas. Instead, the government chooses the opposite route. It increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It hampers the economic development of the Öresund region. D a refusal to see that the Swedish labour market needs to be reformed; I am the first to regret the fact that, on a point-by-point basis, the government refuses to lift all the stones and chooses to maintain the obstacles to more effective reception, better integration and faster entry into the labour market. But I also regret that more has not happened in the short term. Over the past year, the Center Party has presented a wide range of proposals, more than 30, for improved integration. Several of them are about enabling asylum seekers to start work more quickly, facilitating the shift of track to labour migration and making better use of the potential for job integration through the RUT deductions. Sweden's economy is, among other things, very strong as a result of the responsible economic policy of the government. This means that we actually have good opportunities in this country to create jobs and give more people a way into the first job. Mr President, I would like to Next year, the New Year's bells will ring over Sweden. They will call over a country with more inhabitants. They will not be for people who have come here on the run from war and persecution, for people who deserve a chance to integrate and become part of Swedish society. Sweden is well placed to fulfil this task. But we must also see that reforms are needed to achieve this. There is a need for long-term reforms that make it easier for more people to get the first job and so that more people can get their first home faster. But measures are also needed to facilitate the reception of asylum seekers and the processing of their asylum cases, which make the situation of municipalities manageable. Sweden needs these reforms now, not see da n. This requires leadership and responsibility for the future, for future generations and for both new and old Swedes.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-416	Mr President, I would like to It is becoming this way for the four bourgeois parties: The longer they sat in the government power, the less responsibility they had for what happened. And the longer they are not in government power, the more responsibility they have for the positive things that are happening. That's a very strange logic. Let me remind you once again that our government submitted a spring amending budget last spring. We have never had a single day of bourgeois labour market policy. We've made sure to redirect it to more activity. Let me address precisely the constructions and the need for more housing, because that is the subject that we would like to prioritise now. It has been built too little for Sweden. If the former alliance government had so much responsibility for the good that happened in the economy, perhaps it also had some responsibility for the fact that it has been built too little for too long. It is an underinvestment that has been taking place for a long time, even under former Social Democratic governments. I'm the first to admit that. But now we have to take on this task. We have a huge social task, but also a great opportunity to make sure to build more. Now that Boverket estimates that by 2025 we need more than 700 000 more apartments, we politicians have a task in collecting and ensuring that this happens. Our government has already started this with a major investment aid effort. We are making the best investment in housing since the beginning of the 90s, but we must do more. We have just presented today the measures that we consider important: we need to shorten the time from idea to home, we need to increase the capacity of housing, we need to review funding and we need to have better mobility. That is where our priority lies. Are Anders W Jonsson and the Center Party prepared to take part in these discussions and see how we can increase housing construction in Sweden?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-422	Mr President, I would like to From the Center Party we have the policy that we are always prepared to come when the government invites us to talk. I am the first to welcome the fact that the government is now going in and looking more at housing policy. This is a problem for Sweden, and it has been for a long time. The Alliance government took a wide range of measures in this area. Some of them were delivered here to the House so that we could decide on them. Unfortunately, it was when these decisions were often taken that Stefan Lövven's party, the Social Democrats, voted against the proposals. That is why I am pleased to see that the government in the debate article that has been published indicates that it is prepared to proceed with several of the measures that the Alliance Government has developed in order to get legislation on them. It could have happened sooner, but it's good that it's coming now. On the other hand, moving forward with housing subsidies and pumping additional billions into the Swedish housing market is not what will solve the problem. This is something that has been known for a long time and which has, above all, been pointed out by international assessors as to what is the reason why we in Sweden have a housing shortage and that there is far too little building in Sweden. None of them, whether the Monetary Fund, the OECD or the EU, are saying: you have far too little housing subsidies in Sweden. What they're saying is that we have a completely deregulated housing market. We have been applying plan management for far too long. This is something that Swedish assessors are also in full agreement on. When we come to these talks, which I hope we will receive an invitation to quite soon, we from the Center Party will have with us a number of suggestions on how to create more of the market in the housing market, how to get to the hard rent regulation and how to tear down rules to make it easier and cheaper to build. That is where the measures are needed, not for more of the housing subsidies.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-426	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anders W Jonsson for his positive answer. That's good; then we can start the conversation. Our joint mission and the overall task is to ensure that housing is built in our country so that young people come out into adulthood and do not have to have secondary residence after secondary residence but can start their adult life for real. Employers should be able to employ, and there should be housing throughout Sweden. This is an important task for both the Center Party and the Social Democrats, so I thank you for that answer. We will be rather unbiased, but we must focus on what makes a real difference. It is both managing and simplifying rules and getting the capacity up for real. The county administrative boards have compiled a summary of what the municipalities have responded to in Boverket's report. It turns out that it is in production costs and loan opportunities that the major problems lie. Then we must also be prepared to look at funding. It is an important task.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-428	Mr President, I would like to I believe that these talks will certainly result in something. We agree on a number of steps that can be further taken – much based on the housing policy that the Alliance government launched. But if we are to achieve a really big result in terms of the housing market in Sweden, I think we need to listen to the advice we receive from the OECD, the EU, the International Monetary Fund and a number of prominent economists in Sweden: we must dare to question the completely deregulated Swedish housing market, where rent regulation is an important part. I hope that what the Prime Minister has now said is a sign that the government will not defend old social democratic dogmas, but dare to look at the great challenge we have in Sweden right now, that is: how can we get housing and shelter over our heads not only for the newly arrived but also for many young people?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-431	Mr President, I would like to I know the Center Party as a party committed to environmental and climate issues. I see in the powerful climate work that the government has started that the center party councillors and municipalities are also strongly involved. I have worked well with many municipalities and companies, of course, around Sweden in the work we did for the international climate negotiations. In the Swedish work, investment support Climate change is a way to strengthen and scale up locally-based and well-thought-out climate projects around Sweden in both large and small cities. I see that center-led municipalities such as Aneby, Leksand and Rättvik have all gone in together with municipal producers but also locally based companies and applied for co-financing precisely to scale up their climate work. These applications are assessed primarily on the basis of the climate benefit, so this is something we can clearly measure from a national level. Here we are, working together. We cooperate in Sweden to reduce emissions. My clear question to Anders W Jonsson is, of course, why the Center Party in this House says no to such work while your municipal councillors around Sweden say yes and want to scale up the climate work.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-434	Mr President, I would like to There is much that unites the Green Party and the Center Party in their view of environmental policy. We have many common goals, but the way we are going to achieve them is very different. We see that we will create a climate-smart Sweden – a Sweden where we do not use toxins – and at the same time combine it with strong growth in the country. It is precisely the growth of companies that gives us the power to do environmental work. We also see that it is important that this can be reconciled with the life of the whole country. That is why we say no to massive increases in petrol tax. For us, environmental work, and not least climate work, is about using much of the financial means. That is why we have been driving green tax exchanges so hard, and that is also why we can see that the results of our eight years in power are clear in terms of a strong increase in wind power in the country and strong successes in bioenergy. For us, environmental and climate policy is much more than the Ministry of Environment's budget. We see that it is important to get resources to the country, and we do so by ensuring that Swedish companies have a good opportunity to compete. That is also why we have said no to a number of the proposals on small additional budget lines that would reinforce various departments, including what Åsa Romson points out. For us, environmental policy is much more than the size of the Ministry of Environment's budget.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-437	Mr President, I would like to Now perhaps the Climate Tree is not a small post that is said no to in the Ministry of the Environment's budget. It is a major reform for Sweden, together with companies and municipalities, to deliver when it comes to reducing climate emissions. The Alliance government left behind a statistic that said we have a gap of 4 million tonnes of CO2 just to our target by 2020. After the Paris meeting, we see that all countries will need to roll up their sleeves even more. Our responsibility globally is great in terms of reducing emissions. As I say, I am very pleased that the Centre Party municipal councillors in several municipalities are now working actively and scale up their work with the help of the support we provide from the state budget. It is almost EUR 2 billion over the term of office that this is all about. When the Center Party says no in this House, this is made more difficult, and this makes Anders W Jonsson the answer guilty: How are you going to reduce emissions? You say no to increased environmental taxes, as the government proposes, and you say no to reform.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-440	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party's response to how to switch Sweden to a climate-smart country is about using the financial means and continuing with green tax exchange. That is where the important governance measures are, and in this we also have largely a united research community behind us. These are the measures that are important, not individual state subsidies. That is also why we can look back on very successful years, and that is the way we want to continue: reduce the tax on things that we want, and make sure to increase the tax on things that we do not want. That is also where the disappointment on our part lies, because there are so few proposals from the Green Party. Tax increases are easily achieved with the Social Democrats, but not with the important green tax cuts. That's where the Center Party wants to keep working.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-443	Mr President, I would like to I have listened with interest to Anders W Jonsson's and Åsa Romson's line change on climate policy. The agreement reached in Paris places great demands on us. If we are to achieve the two-degree target and go down to 1.5 degrees, we must reduce emissions quickly. We must raise our climate targets for Swedish emissions, because they are too low if we are to achieve this. Then some of the things you can do have a great effect. Others have little effect. We have to do many different things, of course. The introduction of RUT deductions for bicycle repairs has very little climate effect. M a to sell Vattenfall's coal mines so that someone else can break up all the coal, open the new mines that Vattenfall has the right to open and burn it all up has a huge climate effect. This corresponds to 24 times Sweden's emissions as a nation in one year. Then the strange thing here is that this is what the Center Party wants to do. The Center Party thinks it's all right to sell Vattenfall's coal mines instead of dismantling them responsibly. How does it fit together, Anders W Jonsson?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-446	Mr President, I would like to The climate agreement from Paris places very high demands on Sweden. We need to take a wide range of measures. The big challenge we have is how we can steer the Swedish vehicle fleet towards fossil independence. Here we have made suggestions. This is about bonuses – the Malus system, which means that it will be more expensive for those who buy a car with large emissions and cheaper for those who choose a car with less emissions. It is one of the most important proposals to change, because it is a question of directing at the moment of purchase and making the consumer actually choose the environmentally smart car over the one that is not environmentally smart. There is also a need for major public transport investments. We need to turn Sweden around in such a way that we can handle a lot of transport in our long country. This is where the big challenge lies for Sweden. As far as electricity generation is concerned, we have come a very long way. The question whether Vattenfall should sell or not sell coal mines, on the other hand, is an issue that Vattenfall has to deal with, and then the government can come back with proposals.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-450	Mr President, I would like to But this doesn't hold, Anders. You can't say that the biggest climate issue Sweden has to deal with – 24 times Sweden's annual emissions – well, we don't have a real opinion about it, but you can do a little bit of what you want. Then we'll do some other things that have less impact. I agree with bonus Malus. I agree with a conversion subsidy. I agree with public transport. There's no disagreement. But there is one issue that has a greater climate impact than all the other issues we face, and that is what we are going to do with Vattenfall's coal mines. That's where the Center Party is wrong. You were not only wrong when you bought your Nuon – an idiotic affair, if Mr President excuses – but you should also make mistakes one more time and ensure that all this coal can be burned up by someone else who does not take environmental responsibility. Then credibility will somehow disappear. If you do the big thing wrong and then try to do the right thing, then you can talk for as long as you want about the other things. How much climate responsibility is it to let someone burn all this coal in Germany, Anders W Jonsson?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-454	Mr President, I would like to From the Center Party we are fully focused on measures that enable us in Sweden to bring about change. The coal mines in Germany owned by Vattenfall after purchasing previously was a matter that has to be handled first by Vattenfall's board and then by the Swedish government. Finally, it will possibly take a position on this matter to the Riksdag. But we do not currently have any intention to intervene to prevent Vattenfall from selling its coal mines.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-455	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. A few days ago, my two youngest children began in a new school. Changing schools is a bit nervous, not only for the children but also for the parents who are thinking about how it will be. However, they were very well received in the new school by their new classmates. The teacher had prepared the class for new children, and two fathers were waiting to show them around in the new school. I wish all schoolchildren would be equally safe and well, that they felt a tingle of anticipation for the school start. But that is not the reality. During Christmas holidays, many children have gone with a lump in their stomach that has grown more and more the closer the school starts have come. For them, a new semester means new fear – fear of being mounded in the school yard, fear of being sexually molested in the school corridor. This is how it looked even when I was in school. I remember it very well. The adult world very often chose to look away, chose to excuse the perpetrators and explain away the abuse. Very good has happened since then, but in this particular area it sometimes feels as if time has stood still. We can't have that. We must dare to see what happens to our children and what they are subjected to. I don't want my son to be raised into a boring and stereotypical masculinity where you look down on girls. I don't want my daughter like so many girls before her to hear boys go after the girls because boys are like that. When my parents were young, we forbade teachers to beat their students. When I was in school, it was forbidden for parents to beat their children. Now is the time to take the next step. It is time for us adults to make sure that children are protected from abuse and sexual abuse, no matter where they are in society. At New Year's, medicines for children became free of charge, and the basic level of parental insurance was raised. These are fine reforms – a good collaboration with the government. It is welcome welfare reforms that make children's lives safer. But security is not just about money. Security is also that a 13-year-old girl should be able to go to school or visit a music festival without having to be afraid of sexual abuse. We adults must together stand up for that security. Together, we must fight the vile view of women that hides behind these crimes. That security requires not only policemen who do their work and report on what is happening. Most of all, it requires that none of us turn our eyes away when we really need to see and intervene, because we know that feminist work produces results and changes reality. In this House, we fully agree that the abuse of women reported from Cologne, Stockholm and other places is totally unacceptable and must be stopped. But the listener can also hear the differences. As a feminist, I fight all forms of female oppression, no matter who carries it out and no matter who is affected. There's no excuse. However, there are those who only pay attention to women's oppression when the perpetrator comes from another country. The same people and parties are often rather uninterested in women's oppression if the perpetrator is a blonde Swede. The Swedish Democrats oppose women's rights and gender equality, and they despise feminism. For them, women's rights are only interesting if they can be used as a tool against people with foreign background. This is not feminism – it's racism. Sometimes there are similarities between politics and child rearing. In both roles, it is a matter of trying by various means to induce others to change their behaviour and also their own behaviour. In both cases the same rule applies: No one does as you say; they do as you do. When the government recently introduced ID controls at Sweden's borders, the decision was motivated by the fact that it would send a call to other countries in Europe, a signal that would make them take greater responsibility for people on the run. The result has been the opposite. Finland, Norway, Denmark, Germany and Austria are not doing what Sweden said. They do what we did. In recent weeks we have seen how country after country has followed Sweden's example. It has become a race to the bottom where the Nordic and European countries compete to have the most inhumane refugee policy. One of the rules the government has introduced is that those under the age of 18 can only enter Sweden without an ID document if they travel in the company of an adult. This rule is directed directly at unaccompanied refugee children. When Sweden's doctors do not want to perform age checks, because they are contrary to their professional ethics, Stefan Löfven and Åsa Romson instead force bus drivers and guardians to do so. It is anything but a legally secure management of the right to seek refuge from war and persecution. Now that country after country is building fences, more and more refugees are getting caught up in their journey through a cold and inhospitable Europe. Others are trapped in their countries and prevented from getting to safety by minefields and snipers. No one has missed the images of the emaciated children of the besieged Syrian city of Madaya, where the inhabitants have long been fed on leaves, grass, and insects. Today a hope was set on those who had been imprisoned. A caravan of trucks with help from the Red Cross finally reached Madaya. It was only when the opposition in Syria threatened to refuse to participate in the peace talks that the Asad regime – this hideous regime – gave up and agreed to release the aid. The insulation was possible to break. Similarly, we can rescue refugees who are now trapped on the road from Syria of famine and oil barrels to security in Europe. It is not too late to take joint responsibility for a humane refugee policy in Europe. By withholding the Swedish EU levy, we can force other EU countries to take their share of the responsibility. But the EU is now taking a different path, and this is happening with Sweden's active support. The EU is paying Turkey to act as the Union's border police. Turkey's increasingly authoritarian government sees this as a great success. Now they are not only getting money from the EU's government to stop people running, they are also counting on having won the EU's silence. The Turkish state's senseless violence against the country's Kurds escalates into something that increasingly resembles civil war. Instead of fighting IS, Turkey is fighting the Kurds who want their rights recognised. It's the same Kurds who fight IS. The silence of EU leaders in the face of Turkish abuse is embarrassing. As Sweden has received more asylum seekers, we hear increasing demands for refugees to have lower wages and lower security, as if the gaps in Sweden were not large enough. The best paid directors in Swedish industry have already earned more in wages this year than an ordinary worker will earn in wages throughout the year. So the director can take time off from now to New Year and still earn more than the worker. Nevertheless, it is not the director's salary but the worker's salary that the People's Party and the Center Party want to lower. But it is not unskilled jobs with low wages that are missing. What we lack are people who have the right education. What we lack is substantial investment in vocational training, in Swedish studies, in housing construction and in infrastructure. This is what we want to talk to the government about for the next budget; what actually makes Sweden stronger and what makes it necessary for more people to work and more people to take those jobs. That's the way forward. More low-wage jobs are a dead end that only leads to people having to have more than one job to make a living. More low-wage jobs therefore do not necessarily mean fewer unemployed people. On the other hand, this means that wages are being pushed downwards for all those exposed to low-wage competition. We need more safe jobs. That is why it was a big step backwards when the Social Democrats in the migration agreement agreed to career introductions without collective agreements. I am not so surprised that Moderates, Centre Partyrs and Christian Democrats are proposing this step towards a safer working life. I am not so surprised by the Green Party either, to be honest, but I am surprised that the Social Democrats agreed to this deal. The problem is that employers today can, without any consequence, betray the promises and conditions they have made to labour immigrants. The problem is that employers can stack fixed-term contracts on each other without having to offer an open-ended contract. The problem is that too many people do not know in advance whether they will have enough work hours to make a living. The problem is not that there are too few precarious jobs in Sweden.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-481	Mr President, I would like to There is something wonderful about Jonas Sjöstedt anyway; it is straight pipes. When all assessors of the Swedish labour market and Swedish migration policy believe that the thresholds in the Swedish labour market are too high and that it creates an alienation, Jonas Sjöstedt can be trusted. He wants to raise the thresholds even more. The thresholds are too low and should be raised even more. It will be even more difficult for people with low levels of education and who are not so attractive in the labour market to get real jobs. It's reliable. But if that policy were to be implemented in reality, it would of course be devastating. The social democrats in the government went to elections on partly the same rhetoric, but now they are turning completely. From wanting to abolish the RUT, we now want to extend the RUT. When you ended up on the taboos, you understood. Maybe you understood before but pretended you didn't. Jonas Sjöstedt remains in the process of raising the thresholds and that it will be even more difficult to enter the labour market. It could work if Jimmie Åkesson's immigration policy were implemented. If few are allowed to come here, it is possible to have high thresholds and say that everyone should take a Swedish matriculation examination and that everyone should become university qualified. It still does not succeed because quite a lot of Swedish young people unfortunately also fail in school. The problem is that there is now a very large group of immigrants with a low level of education. There will also be people with a high level of education. They will probably get a job after a while, but there will be many people with low education. If they are to enter Swedish society, the thresholds must be lowered. With a low threshold to enter Sweden, Jonas Sjöstedt, but a high threshold to enter the labour market is formed between both these thresholds a very large exclusion. Jonas Sjöstedt can ignore that because his policy will never be implemented in reality. But the truth is that if it were to be implemented, it would be a social disaster.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-486	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'll have to return the straight pipes to Jan Björklund. Many people come to Sweden, and many do not have the necessary education. At the same time, many people are needed. Hundreds of thousands of new jobs will be created in both the private and public sectors. In welfare, hundreds of thousands of people will be needed. Then there are two roads. Either we have to ensure that people are educated so that they can take the jobs that Swedish society needs. Or we can say that we do not believe in training people, investing in language skills and vocational training that will be needed in the labour market. We will try to subsidise low-wage jobs, which will lead to a deterioration of conditions and a reduction in wages for all in certain segments of the labour market. I think that way is worse for those who have come here and need work. It is worse for the Swedish economy and makes us lose much of the transformational pressure and innovation power in our society, which is largely based on education and knowledge. Jan Björklund has a pessimistic view of the possibilities of education. Liberals have a preference for lower wages and higher rents. That's your model. But someone's gonna make a living, and someone's gonna pay the rent. These are the market rents that are moving towards the ceiling and the cuts in wages. There's your weakness. You're leaving low-income people in the lurch. Who are these? If wages are reduced for some, if insecurity is increased for some, there are too many in the labour market. The majority of those who would be affected by your wage-sink policy are those who already have low wages, and they are women. This would increase the pay gap between men and women and would be directly counterproductive in terms of gender equality. Does Jan Björklund not see that risk?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-492	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I see that risk. Therefore, this must be done wisely and intelligently. The alternative is to leave the woman in unemployment. That is Jonas Sjöstedt's alternative. Jonas Sjöstedt says that you have to choose between either a low-wage sector or investing in education. Excuse me! It is not a country in the whole world that chooses between them. There must be jobs with different qualifications, and many things must be done. Sweden has an ambitious education system. There is more adult education than in any other country. At least that was the case a few years ago, and I think that is still the case. Sweden invests a lot in education for those who come here. But it is not that everyone who comes here, perhaps in the middle of life, is able to study for a Swedish matriculation examination. Some of them haven't even been to elementary school. If integration is to work, we must also give those people opportunities. Jonas Sjöstedt chooses to see only those who already have a job. We must see that those who are outsiders, those who are excluded, must have the opportunity to get a job. Then we will also demand that we broaden the Swedish labour market.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-497	Mr President, I would like to I have seen many fine examples that women who are far from the labour market read to, for example, assistant nurse and learn Swedish at the same time. Everyone goes to work. We will need hundreds of thousands of people doing the important jobs in welfare. Throughout this debate, I have heard your bourgeois say time and again: insecurity, reduced wages, dumped conditions. In fact, you have only mentioned once the need to make great efforts to train these people. We need vvs fitters, we need construction workers and we need nurses. We need a whole range of professions. But you're completely uninterested. You never talk about it. In fact, I have not heard a single word from the whole of the bourgeois side about the great challenge and opportunity that exists: to quickly give people Swedish knowledge and vocational training in the professions that are known in the regions that they are needed. It creates a much better and more equal society and a much better way into Sweden than to think that you should treat people who have come here as a B-team on the labour market.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-500	Mr President, I would like to The security policy situation around the Baltic Sea is unstable, and the reason is frightening and unambiguous: Russia has decided to equip its military and force its wishes through force. We've seen it in Crimea. We see it in eastern Ukraine. We see predictions of what might happen to our Baltic neighbours. The way in which Sweden acts in this new situation is of paramount importance for the common security of northern Europe. If we do not take responsibility for ourselves and for our territory, the whole Baltic Sea region is destabilising. We Christian Democrats have ensured, through our participation in the defence settlement, that the defence has received several more billions. Our view is that, together with membership of NATO, it would create a whole of security policy. But the Left Party is opposed to this. In its latest own draft budget, the Left wanted to cut the defence by more than SEK 3 billion. You, Jonas Sjöstedt, put the defence against welfare in your comments on the defence agreement, and you say no to NATO. I wonder, Jonas Sjöstedt: If the defence is not going to have the necessary resources and if Sweden is going to be outside NATO, how are we going to take our responsibility for the Baltic Sea region?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-505	Mr President, I would like to I do not think it is a coincidence that Andreas Carlson does not mention our latest draft budget, namely the Swedish state budget, which is in force today. In that budget, there is not a crown in the difference between what the KD was in favour of in the Defence Committee and the budget that actually governs politics. That is the reality. The difference exists in other areas. You were involved in abolishing military service. We think it was a mistake to do that. We see the great benefits of military alliance freedom and how adventurous NATO policy is. Even NATO supporters do not believe in NATO. Andreas Carlson! Do you want the 2% of GDP in military spending that NATO expects? Do you believe in NATO's nuclear policy, including the right to strike first? Can you imagine nuclear weapons on Swedish territory? And why do you want to be part of a military alliance with Erdo中an in Turkey, which unleashes its share of the NATO military in terror against the Kurdish population in south-eastern Turkey? You want NATO, you want these things. Do you want Erdo, the nukes, the armaments?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-508	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt is well aware that a Swedish NATO membership would not automatically mean nuclear weapons on Swedish territory. Have you turned now, Jonas Sjöstedt? Are you prepared to tell the Swedish people that the Left Party will continue to work for additional funding for the defence? It is quite a difference that you have raised your ambitions by 3 billion in a year. Sweden needs to become a member of NATO. In the complex situation around the Baltic Sea, cooperation only works. We have always relied on alliances to preserve our national independence. A small country like ours, Jonas Sjöstedt, must join forces with others. Alone is not strong, nor in security policy.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-511	Mr President, I would like to No, Sweden has not always relied on military alliances for its security. We have had 200 years of various forms of military alliance freedom. It is also 200 years without withdrawal in big war. Before that, Sweden was often involved in military alliances and also participated much more often in war in Europe in different ways, with a great negative impact on our country and also on many neighbouring countries. Yes, we have changed our defence policy. We did that a few years ago. We are not prepared to cut into dressing operations in Sweden. On the contrary, we see that it may need increased resources. We believe military service is necessary. We are behind the state budget with the defence efforts that are there. We believe that this is also necessary for the sake of freedom of alliance. The question is: are you in favour of NATO membership? You can turn down nuclear weapons in peacetime, but what about wartime? What guarantees do you have? If NATO wants 2% in military expenditure, why do you not propose it? And this with Turkey-- why do you never want to talk about the NATO country that has the second largest military and what it does with that military? Are they supposed to be our allies? No, thank you.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-515	Mr President, I would like to The European Union with half a billion people is the world's largest integration project and the world's most successful peace project. For us liberals, the idea of Europe is a story of a continent that won its peace, freedom and prosperity through cooperation and joint responsibility. But 2015 was a test year for European cooperation. In the area of migration, the gap between the idea of how the EU would work and how it actually works is greater than ever. I think we should be proud of the responsibility that our country has taken for people on the run. But we in Sweden are quite alone in that responsibility. We have faced many challenges, tough decisions and difficult balances as a result of the refugee crisis. I am convinced that joint responsibility is never as important as in times of crisis. On the Liberal side, we defend the right of asylum, and we do not intend to contribute to a policy that risks breaking up families with children. But other countries must take greater responsibility in Europe for the influx to Sweden to be able to reduce from the high levels we had last autumn. The threats to liberal values have not been greater in Europe in modern times. We see populists gaining ground in Northern Europe, Western Europe, Southern Europe and Eastern Europe. Enemy parties exploit people's fears. Developments in Poland and Hungary are very worrying with censorship, anti-Semitism, persecution of dissidents and authoritarian regimes that bring to mind developments in Putin's Russia. Mr President, I would like to It would be a historic setback for Europe if Britain, the cradle of liberal democracy, were to opt out of European cooperation in this situation. European cooperation is needed more now than for generations. Mr President, I would like to Rasha comes from Syria and is 16 years old. Rasha has left his country and lost her home and schooling. She says this in an interview with a journalist: and when I imagine my future, I see nothing. Her words are an important reminder of the responsibility we have to ensure that those who get a sanctuary in Sweden also have a future here. It's about work, housing and school. I am concerned about the government's policy, which is more about protecting the interests of those who are already in the labour market or who already have a place of residence than about ensuring that those who are outside come in as well. There are high thresholds into the Swedish folk home. The exterior is cemented. LO and the Tenants' Association are two organisations in the Social Democratic power structure that have enormous power over both wage formation and renting in Sweden. They represent and take advantage of the interests of their members. Those who do not yet have a job or do not yet have a home are also not members, and no one takes advantage of their interests. We Liberals think it is better to have simpler jobs with a lower initial salary than exclusion with even lower benefits. I hope that the government will also come to that realization in due course. Sweden needs a school of knowledge, but from the Ministry of Education it is quiet. This is where the election promise from Gustav Fridolin is met about a stop to reform. Yet I hear Gustav Fridolin say that the trend break in school is at hand. After eight years of government, I can promise that it is reforms that can bring about a break with trends, not a stop to reform. Mr President, I would like to One of the core values of liberalism is tolerance, and tolerance is a prerequisite for an open society, for a liberal society with democracy and individual freedom. But tolerance must also have limits. During the autumn I have made repeated visits to organisations that work against honour-related violence and against honour repression. It is about women who live in our country and who are not allowed to choose who they are to marry, who are not allowed to participate in the Swedish society and who are not allowed to dress as they want or socialise with whom they want. Their lives are directed by someone else. It's called honorary culture, but it lacks honor and culture. That is not acceptable in our country. It is a question of equality and human rights, but also of integration. As the flow of refugees to Sweden increases, we must dare to say that we know that many come from non-free countries where the view of gender equality is quite different from what we have in Sweden. The only time that the Swedish Democrats are interested in gender equality is when it is possible to use it as an accessory in the immigration debate. At the same time, I would like to say that it is of course totally unacceptable if the police or other public institutions in Sweden are not open with crime and other political considerations. I am also very tired of these so-called left-wing feminists, who are afraid to speak out loud about violence of honour for fear of pointing out certain groups that are immigrants. They call themselves left-wing feminists, but in the end they are much more left than feminists. Feminism is not only needed on Södermalm. It is also needed in Rinkeby, in Biskopsgården and in Rosengård. Mr President, I would like to A year ago, Magdalena Andersson said that the barns were empty. Now she says that the Swedish economy is strong, that it goes as well and quickly as a newly produced Tesla. She may have missed that the last Tesla quarterly report shows billions of losses. The difference in the description of reality cannot be greater at the beginning of 2015 and at the end of 2015. In that case, it was lucky that the Alliance's budget won. However, the fact that Sweden's economy is strong depends on the policy that has been pursued in Sweden for a number of years. The fact that we are trying to say that it is because we won the budget last year or that the red-greens are trying to say that it is because of the spring bill is, frankly, ridiculous; it applies to both parties. The truth is that it is due to eight years of a very responsible policy from the Alliance government. That is why Sweden's economy is now extremely strong. It's a twitchy and lost government that we see. When the government has no idea how more housing will be built or how energy will be produced, it invites the opposition to consultations to ask us to come up with the ideas or to resolve the government's internal conflicts. I have said it before, and I say it again: we Liberals are looking after Sweden's best. We are prepared to discuss different decisions to move Sweden forward, but it is based on the fact that the government has gathered what it wants. Sweden faces major challenges. When you listen to the debate, we seem to agree on what these challenges are. The answer, Stefan Löfven and Åsa Romson, to many of the challenges is more liberalisation. I understand that it was not to sit here and push through liberalisations that Stefan Löfven once joined SSU and Åsa Romson in Green Youth. It was something else you agreed to do. Now is the time, because the answer to many of the challenges with the labour market and with the housing market, not least, is more of liberal solutions and less of socialist regulation. We Liberals are prepared to contribute to this, even in broad agreements in this Parliament. We, Prime Minister, are ready. Are you?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-537	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Jan Björklund gives the impression that the social democracy and the labour movement in general are mostly committed to protecting those in the labour market. Nothing could be more wrong. Just look at the reality. What does our government do now? Well, it ensures that, together with the social partners, a fast track is created so that those who come to our country will get to work as quickly as possible. There are employers and trade unions, and they have all the support of our government. When Jan Björklund entered the government, he inherited a surplus of approximately SEK 68 billion. When he stepped out of the government in autumn 2014, he left behind a deficit of SEK 65 billion. Worse still, during that time unemployment had increased, long-term unemployment and youth unemployment, and school results fell most throughout the Western world. Yet Jan Björklund proposes even more cuts and even more tax cuts. I do not really think it is of political conviction. I understand that so that Jan Björklund has good intentions, wants to achieve something. During the autumn Jan Björklund showed a review and responsibility in a difficult time for Sweden. I'm looking forward to the talks about our housing. Now that we see the challenges that we have, not least on the housing side, it is surely not more of tax cuts and cuts that are required. We see the needs of school, the need for a stronger defence and everything else ahead of us. Is it, then, still tax cuts and cuts that are the main strategy of the Liberals? Isn't it time for more investment?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-541	Mr President, I would like to The fast track for new arrivals that the government is working on is good, but they are directed only at those who already have an education. It's academic professions, well-educated, you're interested in. There's a good thing about fast track, there's absolutely nothing wrong, but that's not where the big challenge is. The big challenge is that a large proportion of those who now come to Sweden have a very low level of education. In principle, we have abolished the labour market for this type of person in Sweden. We've praised it. We have the highest thresholds, the highest entry wages, among comparable countries. This means that this type of job, which exists in other countries, has disappeared here. We have jointly contributed to this. We abolished health care providers. At a very low level of education, one could have taken up employment as a carer. Everyone's supposed to be nurses, and everyone's supposed to be trained. We have abolished much of this type of job and demanded that everyone have a high level of education. The problem lies in a large group coming to Sweden with a low level of education. Then the government says: Let us educate them! The Prime Minister realizes that it is naive to believe that everyone should be able to be educated to the level of a Swedish matriculation examination. That won't be possible. That is where the challenge lies. I believe that in order to solve this, you, Stefan Löfven, must understand that the thresholds into the Swedish labour market need to be lowered. You have set the target of having Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020. You can discuss that case for a long time, but you've set it up. If you do not understand that it has to do with thresholds, the risk is that the government is heading towards a historic failure.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-545	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely thresholds that must be taken down. This will also require investment in education and training. Jan Björklund says that many come here without education. What is the conclusion? Tax cuts and cuts. My conclusion is that we need to invest more in education. We need to work with companies, but not just on fast track. When companies want to offer internships, let them do it. A lot of people want to do that. It should be complemented by training based on the individual's needs. One thing is certain: tax cuts will not educate these people. On the other hand, a training effort that we will invest in will do so. That's the difference. Then there remains for everyone who says that lower wages are what helps to show how wages should be reduced, how much they should be reduced, whether it should be possible to make a living on their work or not and how it will affect Sweden's domestic consumption. There you, Jan Björklund, are guilty of the answer.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-549	Mr President, I would like to It is better to have a first job in Sweden, even if the salary is a little lower, than exclusion with grants for a very long time. It has been and is the alternative. Now Stefan Löfven says no and shakes his head. We have a huge outsidership in Sweden! Does Stefan Löfven not see the risk of building an even greater exclusion through the combination of the migration policy we have and the inability to reform the labour market that is now with the government? We are building an even greater alienation for the future. I am fully aware that tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship, which must be done, are likely to have to be financed by increases in other taxes. There is no room for major unfunded tax cuts for the foreseeable future, partly due to the needs we have in various areas, such as education and defence. But we need to reform the labour market, otherwise we are building a social disaster. There are many new arrivals, many with a low level of education. Sure, some will be educated, but we will not be able to demand that everyone be qualified according to the Swedish model. It's not gonna work.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-552	Mr President, I would like to I will try to ask Jan Björklund a question about climate and environmental technology without there being another debate on nuclear power. In his speech, Björklund mentioned the important development of electric cars. He mentioned in itself only Tesla and said that he did not agree that there was a clear development there. However, many Swedes do. There were many more electric cars on the Swedish market last year, although we do not yet see the powerful transition to electric cars or other fossil-free cars that would be needed to enable us seriously to reduce climate emissions from the transport sector as much and as quickly as we need. I note that the Liberals are taking a new approach in their budget. They write in a motion together with the other allia ns games that they are in favour of bonuses – malus, i.e. both bonus and malus, in terms of transport, but in their own budget they are clear that they are no longer in favour of bonuses. From January 1st, they wanted to remove the entire super environmental car premium. It was the premium imposed by the Alliance Government, which was the only system to show that it wants to help the market into a new environment, a situation that is better for the whole of society because of the reduction of emissions. Now in their budget they take away the super environmental car premium completely. I wonder how manufacturers will be given the opportunity to invest in new environmental technologies when the rules of the game are made as often as the Liberals obviously want.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-556	Mr President, I would like to The red-greens also change the rules. They're being redacted all the time. We are very much in agreement that the fossil-powered car is a development phase that we will be from in the future. We've been trying for 15 years. First, biopowered cars would be subsidised in different ways – it was ethanol and other things. It was driven in a lot by the agricultural and forestry industry, which wanted to make money out of it. It's been a lead, you'd have to say. Then there was someone else and some third technology to be subsidised, for that was what one believed in at the moment. Today it is electric cars that one sees as what will replace the petrol-powered car as a whole. It's amazing. But it's not good to lock on to a particular technology in this – it should be batteries with hydrogen or not, and so on. There is so much opinion on this, and after a few years it may turn out that the wrong technology has been subsidised. General rules of the game are important. Of course, we are prepared to discuss all kinds of solutions in the Energy Commission and in other contexts. But now, pointing out exactly which technology should apply and then hard subsidizing it has proved not to work. We will have a switch to electric power, but we will try to be technology neutral on the part of Parliament.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-560	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if Jan Björklund is aware that the super-environmental car premium – which was not at all a proposal from the Green Party but precisely from the Alliance Government – is based on CO2 emissions and nothing else. Are the Liberals still behind such technology regulation? Now at New Year they want to make the least release cars – they have 0 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre from pure electric cars and 45 grams per kilometre from charging hybrids – in a kind of 40 000 SEK more expensive. This would reasonably lead to a significant negative development of the market. It is a little scary to see that the Liberals have mentioned the word environmental technology in their motions for ten years. There has been a debate in this House on nuclear power and nothing else. But I welcome whether the Liberals now want to start discussing also the transport sector's climate responsibility.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-563	Mr President, I would like to Absolutely, this is the big challenge. The government and the Green Party have been fully focused on the Swedish electricity supply, which is already fossil-free, but it is when it comes to how we run our cars that Sweden can make a difference. That's where we have our fossil emissions. The electricity supply is fossil-free. It is you who have been fully focused on the supply of electricity because you most of all hate nuclear power. To now implement a generation shift from the petrol-powered car to electric cars is, of course, the challenge ahead. Electricity supply is a national issue. We can discuss how many reactors Sweden should have. But that is not the case with cars. They're international. The same car brands are sold all over the world. We cannot construct our own tax systems in Sweden and believe that it will bring about our own development of cars here. The same rules must apply in Europe and the world, which are driving the same development.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-566	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has introduced ID checks to prevent asylum seekers from seeking asylum in Sweden. If I understand the position of the Liberals correctly, we are in principle in favour of identity checks, although there have been objections to how they are implemented and how they have been prepared. The ID checks are an effective way of preventing asylum seekers from even applying for asylum. They have the effect of other countries following and also closing their borders. So we are contributing to a domino effect in Europe. Anyone who is actually faced with a person and for a short moment, perhaps seconds, will decide whether or not that person is given the chance to seek asylum. It could be a train host working on a train. It could be a bus driver with a queue of people getting on the bus. This person, who has neither knowledge nor education to determine the fate of a refugee or whether or not he is entitled to seek asylum, shall determine a human destiny for a few short seconds. That person is well aware that if he is too humane and lets someone ride with who does not really get it, his company and perhaps he himself can be punished with heavy fines. Is it reasonable, legally secure asylum management? Is it a good way to conduct asylum policy to leave it to bus drivers, train hosts and security guards to determine people's fate in the future?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-569	Mr President, I would like to The refugee crisis in Europe has put Sweden in a very difficult position. I think that Jonas Sjöstedt is wrong in the actual picture – that Sweden first takes action, and then the rest of Europe follows. The reality is the opposite, isn't it? Many other countries in Europe, in principle all of them, have taken a long series of measures which have finally made the pressure on Sweden alone far too great. Sure, Jonas Sjöstedt can say that we should let everyone come here. But should we have a reasonable reception in Sweden under dignified forms and circumstances, so that integration works in the next step, the levels of the forecasts we saw – up to 200,000 people a year – are far too high. On this point, I share the government's view that we cannot do this with dignity. It is also unreasonable for the rest of Europe to be able to forward all asylum seekers to Sweden in order to avoid receiving any. The rest of Europe has gradually closed its reception and taken restrictive measures, and it has also forced Sweden to do the same. These are not easy decisions. I say as Åsa Romson said: This is not something I really wanted to do or on which I went to elections, but the situation became such that we had to take this responsibility. Then I'm critical of part of the government's administration, but that's another story. I am prepared mainly to defend the measures that have been taken. It is not the guardians who decide who is to receive asylum. Asylum is tested in Sweden for those who have ID cards, and if you do not have ID cards you do not come to Sweden. But I do not share Jonas Sjöstedt's description of reality. In a previous post he said: Now Sweden closes, and everyone else follows. Excuse me, but it is quite the opposite: the rest of Europe has gradually tightened up its refugee policy, which made Sweden stand alone and the pressure here became too great. It is a regrettable development, but sometimes you have to take responsibility for decisions that you might not have wanted to take in the first place.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-575	Mr President, I would like to I think the only reasonable answer to the refugee tragedy we see is joint responsibility in Europe and in the Nordic countries. What is now happening is a great defeat for Nordic cooperation. You, Jan Björklund, easily bypass this with the ID checks and say: It does not determine the asylum procedure, because the person may never be allowed to apply for asylum. Then it's settled. If you are not allowed to apply for asylum, you may not even have your case examined. Surely that is the abolition of something quite fundamental and perhaps liberal. It is about standing up for the right of asylum and that it should be possible to check whether a person has asylum reasons or not. Yes, Sweden has done more than others. I'm proud of that. We should be well aware of that. But the fact is that Denmark followed directly with border control. Germany is now tightening up controls on Austria, with reference to the Swedish controls. Austria does the same. It is quite unreasonable to say that this has no domino effect. But the main question is: What responsibility do you place on this bus driver, on this train host, and on this guard? Is it reasonable for that person to de facto determine a person's fate?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-579	Mr President, I would like to It is we in this House who decide those rules. We have decided here that those who do not have ID cards will not enter Sweden. It's not the watchman who decides that. It is not the watchman's responsibility to make that decision. We have made that decision. The guardian's task is to check whether there is an identity card or not. But this applies to everything. It's about individual passport police. This applies exactly to all the decisions we make. Ultimately, some official is going to do this somewhere. This is no different from anything else. But Jonas Sjöstedt tries to paint a situation where we say they cannot enter Sweden – so they are referred to the Syria of war. But that's not the case. You can apply for asylum in Denmark. You can apply for asylum in Germany. When you're in Denmark or Germany and you don't get into Sweden, you're not in a war zone. It's not like that. You're actually in a country where it's about the same level of welfare as here. There's as little war there as there is here, so to speak. It is not that anyone is left behind in Syria because of the Swedish decisions. I mean, anyone who now says that we should not take any action to influence the influx – we have an inflow forecast of up to 200 000 per year in the future – does not have a realistic view of what Sweden is capable of.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-583	Mr President, I would like to The events of New Year's Eve are now on the lips of most people. Instead, one day to celebrate faith in the future was a day when systematic and pre-planned harassment and sexual abuse took place in several places across Europe. We have received reports not only from Cologne in Germany but also from Swedish cities such as Kalmar and Karlstad. Violence and violations must never be excused or excused. Many women carry with them experiences of abuse throughout their lives. Many young girls feel uncomfortable, uneasiness and fear of going to school. Mothers and fathers worry and want to protect their daughters from harassment and harassment. Mr President, I would like to There should be zero tolerance against sexual crimes, whether the abuse is committed by men from Sweden or by men from another country. According to several reports, the perpetrators of the New Year's night have been identified as men seeking asylum. They've come here asking for our help and our hospitality. Their actions therefore become a provocation. We build our civilisation on a solid foundation of values, on personal freedom, on Western humanism and on Christian ethics. These values do not just have to be maintained. They must also be defended. Mr President, I would like to In addition to the New Year's abuse, there are now reports of cover-up or silence of previous problems. Among other things, in Stockholm, police officers tell us that they have not spoken openly about things that have happened because of the origin of the perpetrators – this because they have taken into account possible political consequences. If that information is correct, I wonder: how can we in this House make factual decisions on the information on which we base our decisions is coloured? This is where all the cards have to be on the table. I have put an interpellation to the Minister for the Interior on this occasion. I look forward to his and the government's response to the restoration of confidence. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats want to tighten the penalties for all sexual crimes. And we believe that asylum seekers convicted of sexual and women's peace crimes should be expelled.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-589	Sweden should take and Sweden takes its responsibility to welcome people in need of protection. But in our country, our laws and our values apply. Anyone who wants to make Sweden their home should be sure of what rights and what obligations apply. Anyone who does not accept it should not be able to make Sweden their home. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrat and German Chancellor Angela Merkel commented on the event in Cologne the other day. She said: If a refugee does not follow the rules, there must be consequences. This means that they can lose their residence permit regardless of whether they receive a conditional sentence or a prison sentence. Some may find it hard to put action behind words, that it is about showing yourself tough. But in reality it is exactly the opposite. Being clear with rules and their consequences is about protecting the softness of our society and creating environments where we as people have the opportunity to meet each other and meet in community without fear and without a voice in the back of our mind that reminds us to be vigilant. It is only within a framework of good ethics, in which we protect human dignity, that we can create a compassionate and warm society. Mr President, I would like to The turn of the year is of symbolic importance. The new year promises that things can change and that we will have a new chance to make things right and perhaps improve in some area. If there are any who are in need of a new start, it is Swedish Social Democracy, the Government and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. The Prime Minister elected Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. It was a case that was condemned even when it was set. Young people were promised jobs and just a fresh start. The main feature of this promise policy was the trainee jobs. I mentioned this in a change of line with Stefan Löfven earlier in the debate. He promised 32,000 jobs. Today, he has backed up and is talking about reaching a third of this, perhaps 10 000 jobs, but only in 2017. While reforms, which would provide jobs, are disappearing, anti-job tax increases are taking place with full force. 80% of the government's tax increases hit directly and distinctly against jobs and entrepreneurship. This is how the Social Democrats make Sweden weaker. But it is not only in employment policy that Stefan Löfven would have to take a turn. The Prime Minister is happy to talk about civil society – at least when they help to cover holes in government policy. But it's just empty words. He says that he appreciates the forces of civil society, but in reality he taxes them through the abolition of gift tax deductions. A parallel can be drawn to the government's treatment of the family, the most important thing we have, where our values are built and trust is emerging. The family is opposed by the government through quota parental insurance and abolished custody allowance. The government should also start from scratch in the field of defence policy. What one minister says one day dements the other minister the next day. In this tough security policy situation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence obviously do not agree on how to recruit Sweden's defence. If they do not agree on something so fundamental, I wonder: Do they disagree on other matters as well? Is it because of internal disagreements that Stefan Löfven ducks for a Swedish NATO membership? It is not better in migration policy. There, one party in the government condemns its own policy. One can get the impression that the Environmental Party is playing opposition while they are in cabinet positions in the government. Morgan Johansson is developing a policy of reducing the number of asylum seekers below 1 000 per week, while the Green Party is saying that we should be prepared to receive 200 000 – 300 000 asylum seekers per year within just a few years. What line is there in your government, Stefan Löfven? Mr President, I would like to It is easy to look back on 2015 as a year when the worry increased. It was a record lack of confidence in the government, a refugee crisis which is, first and foremost, a crisis for all the millions of refugees and an increasingly aggressive Russia. It was a year of senseless acts of terrorism in Europe and around the world. Today is a year since the horrendous attack on the French satir newspaper Charlie Hebdo and the subsequent hostage taking in a Jewish grocery store. But we also remember the deeds in Denmark and all those who died in Paris in November. All these acts of terror have targeted our free civilization, often linked with strong anti-Semitism. Despite the atrocities, or perhaps precisely because of them, recruitments for Islamic terrorism continue. Around Europe terror cells recruit people for attacks here or for jihadism in Syria. The Islamic terrorists want to create fear, they want to force us to change our way of life, they want to create uncertainty and they want our society to stop. They simply want us to dance after their pipe. That is precisely why we must show that we are not folding from the values of our civilisation, that is, personal freedom, Western humanism and Christian ethics. We must protect freedom of expression and show that we stand up for human dignity. This is the most important position of our time, Mr President. Our values are solid. We're not folding.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-614	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the bill on assisted reproduction for single women presented by the government. It is important to point out at the beginning of the debate that this is not a debate on single parents. It is not a debate about whether a single parent can be a good parent. Of course, a single parent can be an outstanding parent. Nor is it about what is a full family. It goes without saying that a single parent family with children can also be a full family, a family to be treated with the same respect and given the same support by society as a family with two present parents. Instead, this is about what legislation we should have and what interests we, as representatives of the state, should protect. As far as all issues relating to children are concerned, it is quite obvious to us Christian Democrats that we are starting from the child's perspective. What is the child's interest? What is it that we have to defend? On children's issues, we have very good support in the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child to Parents is unambiguous. It states that children should, as far as possible, have knowledge of their parents and be able to grow up with them and be raised by them. And it is our duty as a state, which has signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to ensure that this is done as far as possible. It's not always possible. Sometimes children cannot live with their parents, and it is our responsibility to ensure that children have it as safely as possible. Today, however, we have to take a position on a bill that aims to deprive children of a father from the beginning. For us Christian Democrats, it is very difficult to understand how this bill can be put on Parliament's table today when we talk about the importance of fathers in all other contexts when we debate family politics and parents. Then we talk about that fathers are needed in their children's lives, that fathers should be more present and that fathers should take out more parental insurance, talk more with their children and take greater responsibility in the children's everyday life. At the same time, several parties in this House are prepared to come forward with a bill saying that the father is not needed at all. This law puts adults' longing for children before children's right to parents. This is already stated in the report on which the bill is based. It is noted that this is not about children's rights or children's interests. It's about the interests of adults. That is regrettable. The Government is even so eager to go forward with the proposal that it is not prepared to wait for the final report, even though several consultation bodies, including the Ombudsman for Children, point out that there are major shortcomings in protecting children's rights in terms of, among other things, knowledge of their origin, which is not highlighted in this bill. In February, in one month's time, the final report will be published. However, the government is not prepared to wait for it, but is prepared to present a legislative proposal that does not adequately reflect the rights of children. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are opposed to the proposal to help inseminate single women because we put children's rights before adults' longings.
i-B3UKTHGb51z8v5kLAnnScG	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is about the government's proposal in the bill on assisted conception for single women. The question is, we believe, whether the state should stimulate and promote the fact that children come into the world with only one parent from day one of their lives. The draft law aims to eliminate alleged discrimination against single women who are currently unable to obtain assisted reproduction in Sweden. We in the Swedish Democrats have raised a motion in which we propose that the government's proposal be rejected. The starting point for the Swedish Democrats' family policy is that the child's best interests should be taken into account in all situations in the area of family policy. Today's debate is certainly not about single women or men being bad parents in any way. Many couples differ or separate, so in our society there are already many children living with only one mother or father. Often, however, both parents are involved as a support, although it may be one of the parents who takes greater responsibility. This is something we cannot avoid on the part of society. Although with couples' therapy and other support to create safe families we can help, and through political decisions help to solve the life puzzle for parents and provide good conditions for a good family relationship, we can never avoid couples separating. One of the main reasons is that we believe that a child is entitled to two guardians. That's one of several reasons. One of the main arguments for this is the economic and social security of the child. It is a security that can be more guaranteed if there are two guardians. In almost all other contexts when the issue of children and their guardians is discussed, the importance of a father is stressed. Parents are the most important people in a child's first year of life, and we believe that all children need and are entitled to both a mother and a father. It is important to stress that a single guardian need not be worse than two guardians. On the other hand, the vulnerability increases if something happens to the single parent, in this case the mother. Two parents simply give the child greater financial, legal, and social security if a parent falls ill or dies. In the event that two parents differ, the other parent is still there and can intervene if anything happens. Relatives can play an important role, but in the event of a parent's death they cannot replace the parent completely, no matter how good the relationship with the child is. We simply assume the best interests of the child and the child's conditions. Therefore, we do not want to help minimize the father's importance or the child's right to both his parents. In the conflict between giving a childless woman the right to have a child and the child's need for two guardians, both a mother and a father, we choose to stand on the child's side. The right of the child to his or her parents is also clearly stated in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is questionable whether the proposal to allow single women to have children by means of assisted reproduction could not be contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Article 3 of the Convention states that the best interests of the child must be given priority in all decisions concerning children. Several articles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child also point out that it is essential for a child to have two parents. Among other things, the Seventh Article of the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that a child has the right, as far as possible, to know and care for his or her parents. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, we think it would be deeply unfortunate if the bill were passed, as it would mean that Swedish healthcare contributes to the birth of children without fathers from the very beginning of life. One cannot control the development of life and the death and other causes that cause a parent to disappear from children's lives, but we should not stimulate and contribute to a development where children have only one parent from the beginning. As much as a single woman yearns for children, it is our firm conviction that children are entitled to both their parents. It is quite obvious to us Swedish democrats that the best interests of the child and the children's perspective, i.e. the right to two parents, should outweigh the woman's desire for children. Parliament should therefore reject the proposal to allow assisted conception of single women.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-633	Mr President, I would like to At last, today, we will make the decision that single women should also be given the right to assisted fertilization. In 2016 it is high time to understand that families look different from decades ago. It is also time for harmonisation with the other Nordic countries. Single women can now have access to assisted fertilization in all other Nordic countries, except Norway. It has been a long journey and a long struggle, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Westerholm from the Liberals who have been fighting on this issue for a very long time. I would also like to thank my own party – Lasse Werner raised a motion on this already in 1985. That's 31 years ago. So it is not a new issue, but it has been debated for decades. Children who grow up are shaped by their environment and by the love, care, continuity and respect the child receives from a mother, a father, a single mother, two mothers or two fathers – from the people who surround the child and who see the child and the child's needs. The crucial thing for a child is not that there is a mother and a father, that is, a traditional core family, but the crucial thing for a child is to grow up in love and respect and to have the care every child has the right to have. Now the same conditions will apply to single women as to couples in assisted reproduction. A doctor should test whether both couples and single children have appropriate medical, psychological and social conditions. The question is: Am I able to be a good parent, and will the child grow up in a good environment? The Swedish Democrats' reservation highlights the economic and social aspects and highlights the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Traditional families are not a guarantee of happiness and prosperity, but what matters is the network around a child. As far as the Convention on the Rights of the Child is concerned, I would like the Swedish Democrats to look at the Convention on the Rights of the Child as well as refugees. That would be nice. The Christian Democrats in their opposition to various types of family policy reforms often refer to the children's perspective and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this case, the children's perspective is translated into the right to know their genetic origin. This makes the Christian Democratic resistance to the question of single women's access to assisted reproduction particularly interesting. It has been the case that Swedish single women have for decades gone to other countries to get just assisted fertilization. Then the children do not get knowledge of their genetic origin because sperm donors in many of these countries, unlike in Sweden, may be anonymous. Swedish legislation gives children the right to receive this information. If single women are now given the possibility of assisted fertilization in Sweden, it would thus strengthen these children's right to know about their genetic origin. That should be positive in terms of the children's perspective. A person's relationship status says nothing about the social network. Single people can live in a rich social network, and the family can be much more than Mom, Dad, children. The law that will soon be clubbed means that it is the doctor who will decide whether a special donor's sperm should be used. The woman or couple may have wishes, but it is the doctor who should decide this. We in the Left would have liked to have gone one more step. We want you to have the right to choose a donor whether you live as a couple or are single. It provides greater security for all involved parties, and we will today be calling for reservation No 1 under paragraph 3. The left also wants to extend the right to carry out insemination outside university hospitals to include midwifery clinics. Specifically for those who do not have problems with infertility it would mean that the queues were shortened quite quickly. What is needed now is a modern family policy à la 2016 that includes everyone instead of questioning people's different choices for how they live their lives. Now we get an equal and equal law. It is a victory for all of us who know that families look different and who want legislation to keep up with what is happening in society. Long live the society that persists in the crucial thing for a child is to grow up in love and respect and to receive the care that each child should receive – in different types of families! I propose that the proposal be approved with the exception of our reservation No 3.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-644	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2, which I forgot when I gave my main speech. I have a question for Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party. I could actually put it as short as: Are fathers important to their children? But before I give Karin Rågsjö the opportunity to answer the question, I would like to say that I am glad that we have come so far in Sweden in the view of parenthood that we in very large parts treat and look at mothers and fathers as much as parents. It's taken quite a long time. Although we have parental insurance that is unique in the world and that, from its introduction in the 1970s, has meant that mothers and fathers have the same right to be on parental leave. The legislation is essentially completely similar because we see mothers and fathers as equal parents. When we debate a lot of family policy, we talk about parents and mean both mothers and fathers on equal terms. We know that there is inequality. We know it's different. And we debate many times how to get mothers and fathers to take equal responsibility. Our starting point from the Christian Democrats, when we talk based on the fact that fathers and mothers are equally important to their children, is that the children need both parents. The children need their father as much as their mother. The children feel good about dads taking more parental leave. The adult relationship also feels good. Above all, children benefit from having a close and close relationship with both their parents. But here the Left Party is prepared to say that fathers are not needed at all. So the question is: Are fathers important to their children?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-648	Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson! Sometimes I wonder if social development has not run from KD or that something has happened. Today we have different types of families. We have nuclear families. We have families with two moms and two dads. Fathers are important. Mothers are important. Grandmothers can be important. There are many around a child who can be important. There are a lot of people who can support a child throughout its childhood. Today it looks very different in society. In my vicinity, I can say that I have all kinds of families, so-called star families. The important thing for me, for the Left and for us that I think will club this today is that the children get the love and care in the family constellations that exist. Single women who wish to have children, and who cannot be fertilized here by assisted conception, go to other countries, Emma. For example, they go to Denmark where they have anonymous sperm donors. If we now club this today, which we will do at about 2 p.m. 16, it means that these children have access to their genetic fathers. Various studies show that children who grow up in different types of families are doing just fine. What you do is you exclude certain types of family constellations and say: But this is not how we want it. We want it to be a nuclear family. And if there is not a core family, the single woman should not be helped to be fertilized. You choose in that way exactly what a family should look like. I find that rather strange when we are talking about people's equal right to choose their lives. I think 2016 is the time to club this. Just look at the world around us.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-655	Mr President, I would like to I'll have to ask Karin Rågsjö to go in and listen to my speech again. It wasn't that many minutes ago that I kept it, but you already seem to have completely ignored, forgotten or not heard what I said. I began my speech by saying that this is not about whether single people can be good parents or not or whether a single parent family with children is a full family or not, because they are. There is no doubt about it. Single parents can be excellent parents. A family with a single child is a full family. It should have the same respect. But that is not what this legislation is about. This legislation concerns children who are initially deprived of the right to have a father, not whether a family where a child has lost a parent is a full family, if the remaining parent is still a good parent. It can certainly be. This is about whether children are entitled to their father or not. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is clear. The Left Party and the Christian Democrats agree that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be Swedish law. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children should know who their parents are and be cared for by them. Children are therefore entitled to this, but with the legislation you now want to deprive children of that right. My guess is that the urgency is that we want to introduce the Convention on the Rights of the Child as a law. If it had been done first, it would not have been possible to introduce this legislation, because it runs counter to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and deprives children of the possibility of having a father. The Left Party says that it is better to get assisted conception in Sweden, because then the children will have access to the other parent. No, they can't. Throughout childhood, from 0 to 18 years of age, you become without the right to a parent. When you grow up, you can find out who was the source of your genetic origin, but you are deprived of the right to have a father. So the question remains, because you didn't answer it: Are fathers important to their children?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-659	Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson! Yeah, daddies can be good, but they can also be bad. Mothers can also be bad. The important thing I think is that we are standing here in 2016 discussing legislation that has been implemented in other countries. What you're saying, even if you say that you think single parents can be great, is that it's not really good, that it's not really okay that women can now choose to get assisted conception in Sweden, because you miss the father. You in KD say: "We want the family with Mom, Dad and children." That is exactly what you say and the signal you send to women who adopt, single women, fathers and fathers as well as mothers and mothers who live with their children, for whom it is perfectly possible and who receive the love, care and respect they should have. That's what's important in 2016.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-662	Mr President, I would like to Today, Parliament will in all likelihood vote through a good and extremely long-awaited proposal. Ten years ago, women living in same-sex couples in Sweden were entitled to assisted fertilization. It was an important decision then. And many children today grow up with two mothers, one of whom is a biological mother and where the couple have been helped with insemination. Now, however, it is high time we took the next step. In the bill that the government is now presenting, it is proposed that single women should be given the same opportunity for assisted fertilization in Swedish healthcare as currently exists for married couples, registered partners and cohabiting partners. A single woman undergoing assisted fertilization in Sweden becomes the child's only legal parent – a legal amendment that is proposed to enter into force on 1 April this year. Mr President, I would like to Involuntary infertility is a great sorrow for a great many. In line with the development of knowledge, healthcare has been able to help many of them. Through insemination and IVF treatments, thousands of children have come into the world. But until now, the possibility of getting pregnant has only been given to those who are married, those who live together or those who are registered partners. About 10 to 15 percent of those who wish to have children are involuntaryly childless. At present, Swedish law does not allow single women assisted conception, which has resulted in approximately 800 Swedish women going abroad annually to get help with assisted fertilization. So today's legislation does not prevent the birth of children that critics want to discourage by opposing a change of law. On the other hand, it complicates the lives of many women who are involuntarily childless and single. It may also complicate the lives of children. Today's rules send out a signal that these children are not really desirable, that if society is involved there should be two parents who raise the child – this despite the fact that reality often looks quite different with many different forms of family constellations. It is hoped that with this proposal we will change this view. Interestingly, it has not always been impossible for single women to receive fertility treatment in Sweden. In fact, before the first regulation was introduced in the 1984 Insemination Act, private gynecologists treated women who did not live with a man. However, the Insemination Act put an end to such treatments in Sweden because the legislator of the time thought that the children should have two legal parents, of the opposite sex in addition. However, as early as this first amendment of the law, a motion on the question of the continued right of single women to be able to receive assistance with assisted reproduction was initiated, but it was then rejected by the Riksdag. But society is changing. Norms and values today do not look like they did then. The reality today does not look like it did at the time either. In 2005, same-sex couples had access to assisted conception and adoption, which means that the parent's gender is now actually irrelevant. Mr President, I would like to Now, as I said, it is time to take the next step. We have already accepted and respect that family constellations can look different and that we live our lives completely differently. Children today live with one, two, three or four parents. The most important thing is not the number of parents but that the children have a good, safe and safe childhood. We Social Democrats believe that the family composition does not say anything about how a child gets it in life. Rather, it is about the care and love we give the child. The contribution of health care to the creation of children, of course, still represents an extra responsibility for society. Therefore, today the doctor always makes an assessment of the child's ability to grow up under good conditions before deciding on assisted conception. The same important assessment will be made for the single woman. The woman will use her own egg with donated sperm and become the sole parent of the child. In many other countries a sperm donor can remain anonymous, but it is and should not be possible in Sweden. All children who have been born through assisted conception in Sweden can find out who the genetic father is. That right does not change with our proposal. All children have the right to know their origins, and that is important. With our proposal, more children will have that right. Mr President, I would like to We believe that we need more knowledge about how healthcare handles and assesses those applying for assisted fertilization. Therefore, the Government proposes that an evaluation be carried out in a few years' time. Among other things, we need to ensure that single women are not given special treatment. As early as this spring, we hope that the first single women can turn to Swedish health care instead of foreign ones for assisted fertilization. It is better for women, but it is above all better for children. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, I would like to endorse the proposal.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-679	Mr President, I would like to The study Assisted fertilization for single women describes the starting point for the investigation's proposal – on p. 105 – 106, for those who want to check it out for themselves, it can hardly be argued that the motive for introducing the possibility of assisted reproduction for single people is the child's best interests. Instead, the basis for the introduction is a desire to help more involuntary childless children to have children in this way. ..................................................... The investigation therefore clearly states that it is not about children's rights or what is best for children but about adults' desire for children. I can understand it, I have full respect for it – involuntary childlessness can be terrible – but it's about a longing, not a right. Now the government is choosing to make this a right, despite the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is not yet Swedish law, but we are bound by it. We have signed it, and we have promised every child – those who are already born and those who will be born – that we will guarantee their rights. We will defend the children when their interests stand against those of adults. The Convention on the Rights of the Child clearly states that children are right — not a desire, not a desire — to know and be cared for by their parents. My question to the representatives of the government parties Yasmine Larsson is: Do the Social Democrats and the government not think it is important that Sweden stands up for this part of the Convention on the Rights of the Child?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-683	Mr President, I would like to It sounds to Emma Henriksson that the children's perspective does not exist at all among us as today clubs through the proposal. There is a great deal of it. Children who are long-awaited, children who are dearly loved, are well off. It shows all the research. I hope it comes as no surprise that there are children in heterosexual nuclear families who are sometimes not very well off. The Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children are entitled to both their parents as far as possible. When the Convention on the Rights of the Child was drafted at the end of the 1980s, an article was added stating that the child has the right, as far as possible, to have knowledge of his parents and to be cared for by them– that is quite right. Then adoption was in mind. If Emma Henriksson believes that single-insemination would be contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, should the same be said about the insemination of couples? As far as possible, it can also be applied there. What is the magic number with two parents, Emma Henriksson? Society today does not look like the way Emma Henriksson wants it to look. Today, not all family constellations have a core family based on mother, father, and children. Many children today grow up with single parents for various reasons. Emma Henriksson claims, both in the speaker's chair and in lines, that she does not think these parents are worse parents. Why not give them the right to become parents?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-688	Mr President, I would like to I don't get an answer to my question. I understand why you want to duck, because there are strong voices out there. The victim of involuntary infertility is driven by a tremendous force — the desire to become a parent. I understand that in a situation where you want to become a parent, you do what you can to be a parent, but the Convention on the Rights of the Child exists to protect children. The state, which has signed the Convention on the Rights of the Child, will do everything in its power to protect children. Children end up in a lot of different situations where they need the protection of society. We know that single parents can be amazing parents, but we also know that growing up with a single parent is a more vulnerable situation. That's why we're trying to support and help these parents extra. In economic family policy and in different ways we see this vulnerability, and we want to help parents to perform their parental role as well as possible in order to protect children as far as possible. It may come as a surprise to one or another social democrat that there are also quite a few different family constellations among Christian Democrats. We're like people are the most. I didn't grow up in a nuclear family. But this issue is not about it, but about our responsibility as a state. If we are to live up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we will do everything we can to ensure that children are entitled to both their parents. In the long run, the question will be put to the fore. If children can be taken away from a father from the outset, what does it say that it is no better for the child to be taken away from a parent in a conflict between the parents? Why should we continue to strive for children to be raised as far as possible by their parents? If a child can be taken away from the father in the first place, why can't the child be taken away from his father later in life? We see parents as important, so the question remains: can we ignore this part of the Convention on the Rights of the Child?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-693	Mr President, I would like to Today is the most common family constellation, and I think it will be for a long time to come – a mother, a father and children. Of course, in cases where a family constellation looks like that, I think that the father has as much part in the responsibility and to be with the child during its childhood as the mother has. But for me, parenting isn't about biology. The important thing in a child's upbringing is a safe life with stable adult contacts but also that society takes a collective hold of responsibility, that children have a good upbringing regardless of family background. We should remember that the alternative for the children we are talking about today is that they are never born, that their mothers have their eggs fertilized in other countries or that they do so in secret, with all the problems that come with it. It is also important to remember that there are many different people around a child who are important for a child's growth. When a single mother has children, children are often extremely longed for by many, such as relatives and friends of the woman and grandparents who have longed, and this is often a well - thought - out decision. In addition, among women who choose insemination, more than average highly educated people with well-paid jobs are usually called resourceful parents. I think it's important to remember that.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-697	Mr President, I would like to Finally! is said today around Sweden. Now, at last, those affected by involuntary infertility are given the same opportunities for assisted fertilization on equal terms in Swedish health care that are already given to married couples, registered partners and cohabiting partners. But above all, the child's right to know about his genetic origin here in Sweden is strengthened – finally! Single women today can become parents through adoption. However, women are increasingly travelling abroad for assisted reproduction. Modern familying changes over the years, as well as social norms, values and attitudes have changed over time. Mr President, I would like to Families today look very different. We Moderates see the rights of the child, have the child's focus but also the child's upbringing and development at the center during many of the years of life to come. This is a decision that strengthens those who have suffered from involuntary infertility, and it strengthens the child's right here in Sweden. These important issues are not suitable for shooting wars in politics. It is therefore a good thing that the government is pursuing what the Alliance Government investigated. This is about the investigation into increased opportunities for the treatment of involuntary infertility, following a very broad announcement made by the Riksdag in 2012. Today it is a bill and a bill that we have worked together, the parties that will today vote in favour of the proposal in the Swedish Parliament. Mr President, I would like to Involuntary infertility is a major problem for many people. It creates anxiety and grief. It is a matter of both medical and social vulnerability. Involuntary infertility is expected to affect somewhere between 10 and 15 percent of all sex couples of childbearing age. In addition, we all have other relationships. Of course, there is no certain task, but many live with it. The causes of infertility can be many: medical, social, psychological, and economic. What we are doing today is affirming reality and the society in which we live. These are not simple questions. They cut across most opinions. It is therefore important that there has been thorough work. It is well balanced for a number of years, a number of investigations and a number of discussions, not least in this House. Now it is also legislation that is very similar to that we know about relationships. Here the child's right in Sweden is further strengthened. Involuntary infertility, Mr President, is not something you want, not least because children are an incredibly important part of most people's lives. The reality today is very different from before. Well, let's go back to it. Then we shall be able to make the changes that we see need. Modern family formations should be equally safe, given equal support and definitely have as much focus on the child – if not more, with the knowledge we have now compared to before. With this, we are taking the next important step. I call for the legislative proposal and the Social Affairs Committee's proposal for a decision in general.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-705	Mr President, I would like to I know that the Moderates have already been in favour of the introduction of this kind of legislation, but I would still like to ask Cecilia Widegren a number of questions. In the Government's desire to get this on the ground as a matter of urgency, this proposal has been put forward, despite the fact that a number of consultation bodies, including the Ombudsman for Children, have highlighted the importance of clarifying the interests of the child, clarifying what will happen with regard to children's right to know their origins, but also whether to have a test of which single persons should undergo assisted fertilisation and how it may differ from other contexts. There's an investigation going on. It will be ready in February, in one month's time. Although it's an investigation where these issues are to be highlighted – and we still don't know what they're coming up with – the government is prepared to present this proposal, and the Moderates are quite obviously willing to support it, although we don't have facts on the table that are absolutely fundamental to children's rights. It surprises me, because the Moderates tend to be careful to have proper evidence before moving on, to know what applies and – especially when it comes to children's rights – to ensure that they are satisfied as far as possible. That is my first question to Cecilia Widegren. My second question is the same as I have asked in previous lines: Are fathers important in this context or only when it comes to quotas or other things, that fathers – if they are comfortable and nearby – can keep up with them then but that basically no father is needed?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-710	Mr President, I would like to With respect for the fact that the Christian Democrats and the Moderates on this issue have very different views, I still want to try to further illustrate the picture that we have based on the questions that Emma Henriksson is asking. Reality has changed quite radically over a number of years. In this House, it has been mentioned that 800 women a year travel abroad. I've heard numbers of 500 to 1,000. There are currently children who live and grow up in Sweden who do not have protection of legislation in Sweden. Then I think we should open our eyes. We'll do it together. I have not chosen to dig any trenches but try to find a broad consensus across the block and party boundaries. We have had a parliamentary election between us, and yet together we have come to this legislation, for these children and, above all, for future children, for equal conditions and with the conditions and reality that prevail. It's not about judging anyone. It is Emma Henriksson as a parent who is clear to describe. But let us not do that by saying no to modern legislation in Sweden too, which creates the conditions for the children who will grow up here. There are many questions that remain, not least about what to do if you do not use the woman's own eggs. We will come back to those questions. Maybe they're even more tricky. We choose not to answer those questions now, but just as the Alliance Government prepared – this was a partial report for a major investigation – we choose to legislate on the part that was also the starting point of that investigation. It has probably been acknowledged in Sweden, and we will of course continue to answer questions that today do not yet have their answers.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-715	Mr President, I would like to When we decide that single people should have the right to insemination – we must assume that this is the case, because there is a large majority in this House today – it will mean that social services will close paternity investigations. So you shouldn't even try to find out if there is a father to whom the children are entitled. In this way, children are initially deprived of the right to a father. During the drafting of this legislative proposal, the risk of this also affecting custody disputes has been highlighted. Even today, when children have two parents in the first place, there are great difficulties in dealing with custody disputes, but the two parents find it difficult to agree on the child's welfare and woe and upbringing. Parents find it difficult to put their interests in the background for the child's interests. In these situations, it is the responsibility of the state to put the child's interest first, to represent the child and to try to persuade the parents to come to their senses and look after the child's interest rather than his own. Several have pointed out that such a change in legislation that says that the state can contribute to a child having only one right to a parent will also affect custody disputes. Do the Moderates not see this risk at all, or do they think it can be handled in any other way? Or is it perhaps thought that if there is a conflict between the parents, we have already with this legislation, if it is clubbed today, said that one parent is enough for a child, that the state does not have to try to be able to live up to the Charter of the Convention on the Rights of the Child if children are to be raised by two parents and that, therefore, even in custody disputes, one should change the perspective?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-718	Mr President, I would like to This is a piece of legislation that is well thought out. There will not only be assisted conceptions around the country, but here, just as for couples, there will be a thorough review. We have strong adoption legislation in Sweden that also requires a thorough review to highlight the child's rights. This will also happen in these cases. Emma Henriksson highlights cases such as vulnerable children, children in custody disputes, children who are injured and children who do not receive the care and care they need, but it is completely different legislation and completely different conditions, which we will also discuss, when it comes to children's vulnerability in Sweden. We shall not interfere with this discussion. We have another legislation and another discussion on those issues, and of course we will put the child in focus there too. This is about affirming a reality that has changed. Sweden is now the last to have this modern legislation in this part of Europe. The reality has shown that women travel to other countries instead, and if anything happens to children. Those who grow up today in Sweden are vulnerable. We do not have all the answers to the questions about how children will experience this in a few years' time. That is why both the research and the evaluation that we agree on are now going to be very important to follow. But do not confuse this with other children who are vulnerable and living in other relationships that are not related to this legislation. The norm continues to be that most are born in relationships where there is a man, a woman and a child. But there are also other family formations, and we are accepting them now. We in the Swedish Parliament see them.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-723	Mr President, I would like to Today's Parliament will make a clear statement that all children should be welcome, including those born of a single mother through assisted conception. The Center Party has for many years been pushing the question that it should be allowed even for a single woman to become a mother through assisted conception. We are delighted with today's forthcoming parliamentary decision. As early as 2012, the Center Party, together with the Moderates and then People's Party, took the initiative in the Social Committee that the government should urgently initiate legislative work in order for single women to have access to assisted conception. This led to an announcement from the Riksdag and then an investigation that was tasked with reviewing extended opportunities for the treatment of involuntary infertility. Today, then, we are going to take a position on the part concerning assisted reproduction for single women. There are today a large number of children in Sweden who have been born through assisted conception by a single mother who has been performed in another country. These children are loved by their mothers and grandparents and by the network that is usually around the single mother. But the children in the legal sense have not been legal, because they have been created in an illegal way in Sweden. With today's decision, it becomes clear that official Sweden also believes that these children are as welcome as everyone else. All legislation concerning children must first of all take into account what is best for the child. It is the vision that underpins the support of the Center Party for the proposal to allow assisted reproduction for single women. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child clearly establishes the right of all children to know their origins. It is a fundamental principle and an important value that the Center Party upholds. The fact that children's lengthening single women today go abroad to undergo assisted fertilization is a consequence of the fact that current legislation does not allow this to happen in Sweden. The result of women's treatment abroad is often that there is not always an opportunity for the child to learn later about the father's identity. In this way, current legislation is an obstacle to the children of women who have been inseminated abroad to know their origins. The criticism that has been made of the proposal to allow assisted reproduction for single women has been based on the child perspective. On the contrary, the Center Party believes that a legislative amendment that allows assisted reproduction of single women in Sweden strengthens children's rights, partly by giving children the opportunity to gain knowledge of the donor's identity and partly by increasing the legitimacy of the children who come into being in this way. The decision we are making today is also an important recognition for all the single parents in Sweden who are doing an amazing job in raising their children on their own. We in the Center Party are convinced that what is crucial for a good upbringing is the parent's or parents' ability to give the child love, security and care. This applies regardless of whether you are a single parent or living in a relationship. The women who choose to go abroad to undergo assisted fertilization are driven by a strong desire for children and have thought this through for a long time. The children who come into being through assisted conception are thus truly long awaited by mothers who carefully considered the decision to have children. This, if anything, must be a good basis for a loving upbringing. Therefore, child-long responsible adults should be supported and not hindered in their efforts to have children. An important task for politics is to be sensitive to and reflect people's differences. The fact that families today can look different is a reality that the legislation needs to adapt to. This law was not valid 100 years ago, 80 years ago or ten years ago. But today it is 2016, and we are living in the reality that prevails. It is a balance, of course it is, and of course it is a difficult question. But, as I said, the Center Party has been pushing this issue for a long time, and we are pleased that there is now a broad majority in Parliament for a change of law. I therefore call for the draft decision of the Committee on Social Affairs to be approved in the SoU3 report.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-732	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Staffan Danielsson highlights the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That's great. He highlights half the sentence of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which deals with children's rights to their parents. He lifts up the part about children having the right to know their origins. But the sentence goes on to say that children also have the right to be raised by their parents. To argue that it is just as good that we introduce legislation in Sweden because otherwise the woman can go to Denmark – and according to Denmark's legislation, you are not right when you become an adult to know who was or could have been the other parent – does not in any way guarantee children's rights when you are a child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child applies to children. And children are when you are 0 - 18 years old. Introduce legislation to deprive children of the right to a parent throughout their childhood, arguing that one can at least know the genetic origin when one is an adult, is not to live up to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is somehow covering up that there is at least a little less violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child if you find out who you are when you are an adult. It is not guaranteed whether the woman has done the insemination in Denmark. My question to the Center Party is: is there anything in the legislation that you are prepared to vote on today that guarantees that the woman who does not want the child to know about the other genetic origin will not continue to go to Denmark? In any case, I have spoken to a number of women who do not like that requirement in the Swedish legislative proposal and who say that they will continue to turn to Denmark. Is there anything in the legislation that guarantees children's rights under the Convention on the Rights of the Child?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-736	Mr President, I would like to This is a difficult and sensitive issue. As I said, it wasn't up to date 100 years ago. It wasn't up to date 20 years ago. It is up to date, with the development of technology and with regard to the reality. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is very important. Sweden is committed to respecting it. Its intentions and its statutes will be followed as far as possible. But politics and life always mean balances. That is the balance we are discussing here. If we do not introduce this law, many women will still have children, by insemination or otherwise, in Denmark or elsewhere. That possibility is open whether we establish this law or not. But by establishing the law, women no longer need to go abroad to have children in that way. Then there is the possibility in Sweden. Then we have the condition to know who the sperm donor is. I think that's good. I cannot rule out that one woman or another might go to Denmark anyway, for the reason Emma Henriksson says, or that they have children in another way. That reality always exists. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is important. Fathers are important. Emma Henriksson did not ask that question. Fathers are very important. But sometimes the father isn't there. Children can do just as well with a loving mother and her network. I respect the fact that the question is difficult. I have respect for the line taken by the Christian Democrats. But, as I said, this attitude has matured in the Center Party. We're very safe with it.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-742	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely true that the question was not relevant quite a long time ago. The last question was during a Social Democratic government in 2004-2005. The Social Democrats said that it is important for the child to be guaranteed the right to two parents from the beginning because one has only one parent and becomes more vulnerable. Earlier today, we heard Yasmine Larsson say in the speaker's chair that the number of parents does not matter. Now we can look forward to the Social Democrats making proposals to change the number of guardians. We have heard other parties propose this before. As far as the Center Party and the Center Party's arguments are concerned, it makes no sense to me. The Center Party says that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is important and that fathers are important. But they are prepared to introduce legislation that deprives children of the right to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, namely that they should have the right to know their parents during their childhood – that's what the Convention on the Rights of the Child is about – and be able to be raised by them. Children are deprived of the right to two parents. Children are deprived of the right to a father. It's dads we're talking about in this case. Yet the Center Party says it is important, whenever possible. Here it is possible. It is perfectly possible for us to have legislation that says that children are entitled to their origins and that children have the right to be raised as far as possible by their parents while recognising families made up of a single parent with children. We respect single parents for those they are and acknowledge that they are important and can be good. There is no guarantee for anyone that you are a good parent, regardless of family constellation. But it is not the constellation itself that is decisive in that part. But here we are depriving children of the opportunity. Does the Center Party mean that it is perfectly reasonable for us to say that we are ignoring that part of the Convention on the Rights of the Child?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-748	Mr President, I would like to I think I've already answered that. The Convention on the Rights of the Child is important. There are many other important conventions. But sometimes you have to balance the intentions that are so clear. Here we are in such a position and must strike a balance. Many children in Sweden who have been created through assisted fertilization are growing up with a single mother today. They will do so in the future too. Assisted fertilization will now be possible in Sweden, under given and predictable conditions and requiring identity on the sperm donor. I think it is a step forward. With this decision, we embrace the reality of today and the opportunities of a child-longing woman to have children on her own. Now we are opening up to it in Sweden. I think it will be better for the choices that single women face. Other choices can also be made in the future. We can't stop it, and we shouldn't stop it. But this is an important reform. All children are equally important. All children should be loved. Many children grow up with a father and a mother. Some children grow up with a mother. Children can have a very good time, no matter what combination of parents you have. The Center thinks this is a good decision that the Riksdag will make.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-755	Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals welcome the fact that, 31 years after the Insemination Act was passed, Parliament is now introducing the possibility for single women to undergo assisted fertilization to satisfy their child wish. For us Liberals, this means that the obstacle that lies in the way of people being able to live their lives as they wish is removed, as long as they do not harm anyone else. This someone else is in this context the child. This legislation is based on the best interests of the child. It ensures that, before assisted reproduction for single people is carried out, the healthcare system conducts a thorough investigation. In this way, the child is guaranteed a good social network and good conditions for childhood and youth. It is also clear that the legislation should be followed up. And I hope it won't be too long. Seven years after the Insemination Act saw the light of day, I exercised in Parliament for a follow-up, but they said: It's too early, and we'll wait for international experiences. Now we are clearly saying that it will happen here and now, and I hope that the government will ensure that such a follow-up is put into the sea. I want to review the history as a background. It is important to have with you when we make this decision today. 31 years ago Lars Werner, VPK, had a party motion that insemination would be allowed, and not only for heterosexual couples but in any form of cohabitation. My exercise in 1992 was in order, among other things, to follow up, but also because single women made sure that they still had the desired child. They went to the restaurant and the restaurant and found men who stood up, but they might never see again. There was also a risk of HIV infection. At the time, I meant to investigate whether it was not possible to inseminate in the healthcare sector. I have since gnetted and stretched along with my party partner Birgitta Ohlsson. When I returned to Parliament in 2006, we woke up a motion about this. There was a majority in the Riksdag in 2007–2008 to make it possible. But then it was a coalition government. Unlike other Nordic countries, the government here must agree when it presents a bill. In the other Nordic countries, a party may reserve its right to a bill if the government finds that there is a majority in the Riksdag. As early as 2007 – 2008 we had thus been able to set up an investigation. I realized that we must have a good knowledge base with a focus on the best interests of the child. I am a member of the National Council on Medical Ethics, and we did a major investigation into assisted fertilization where assisted fertilization for single people was part of it. We included pediatricians, child psychologists, gynecologists, expertise in the field of children, and in the research on children raised after insemination by single parents. Everything pointed out that these children were well off and wanted. A majority of the National Council on Medical Ethics believed that this should be possible. As a result, the Riksdag adopted a decision in 2012 that the Government should urgently return with a bill – that was four years ago. How is the concept defined urgently? It took a year before the investigation started. That investigation had as part of the complex assisted fertilization to address this with single parents first. It has been said to me that the whole part of the law contained in this report is the part of the law that will form the basis of the final report that will be published in just over a month's time. So that part hasn't been anything to wait for. After the investigation, it has taken another year of consultation and the like before we have received the proposal at the Riksdag table. In the meantime, many women have traveled abroad for insemination, which is a disadvantage precisely in view of the children's ability to seek their origins when they have come up in the years. But I am convinced that these women with their social networks are good parents. Unlike children in heterosexual relationships who have been created by insemination, single children born by insemination early learn how they have come into the world. Unfortunately, this is hidden within the heterosexual couples. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-768	Mr President, I would like to I quoted earlier from the investigation: a reason for introducing the possibility of assisted reproduction for single people is hardly in line with the best interests of the child. Instead, the basis for the introduction is a desire to help more involuntary childless children to have children in this way. So it is not my words, but the investigation itself that describes its mission in this way. My question to Barbro Westerholm, the Liberals, is: Does the Liberals agree with this description?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-770	Mr President, I would like to Liberals have based on what has been said in the National Council for Health and Ethics, which is based on the best interests of the child. Just read the investigation in detail. That is the basis for our position here. Then you can turn and turn words in the lyrics and interpret them differently. I have read the bill that we have received at Parliament's table where the starting point is to enable assisted conception for single people in Sweden during for the child – and of course also for the woman – as safe forms as ever go.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-772	Mr President, I would like to I had to ask the question because in his speech Barbro Westerholm described what would otherwise happen. This assumes that there is someone involved with sperm carriers, but women can trick themselves into becoming pregnant with someone who may not be aware of it. But apart from such situations, what is the responsibility of the state? Well, it's trying to establish paternity just to protect the child. The child should be entitled to his or her parents and to know who the other parent is. That is what is stated in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This legislation deprives the child of that right. Our responsibility as legislators is to protect those who cannot protect themselves. In this case, it's about the children. Women can always take things into their own hands. However, making the norm and law out of what works badly is not the way in which we are supposed to legislate in this country. We know from the past that there is quite a difference between Christian Democrats and Liberals in terms of quotas. The liberals too often point out that parental insurance should be subject to more quotas because mothers and fathers should be at home equally. I have often suspected that this is more about the view that women should be protected from parenthood becoming a female trap. We Christian Democrats believe that it is important that both parents are present to build a relationship with the child because that is what the child needs. The baby needs both her mother and her father. This applies not only to parental insurance but also to all legislation, not least this legislation. So my second question to the Liberals is: why do you want quota parental insurance if the father can initially be taken away from the child?
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-778	Mr President, I would like to First, regarding paternity: It was not possible to find any fathers of the children when it came to the women to whom I referred in my 1992 exercise. It was during occasional restaurant visits and other occasions that one was able to get pregnant. It's way off from the opportunity we're giving the kids today. Here there is a system for the safety of the child. Parental insurance applies to a completely different situation. It should not be confused with the situation of these families. Medical care has to ensure, as far as possible, that children are born in a social network with their mother, grandparents, friends, siblings or others. But don't confuse this with the parental insurance issue! It is just like with some other questions that Emma Henriksson asked that didn't focus on this situation but on other conditions. We Liberals welcome this decision and want to see self-critically why it has taken five years longer than necessary. There are hundreds of women who could have access to assisted fertilization here at home instead of having to go abroad, with the slightly worse situation for the child.
i-643b9f9bb2ba0519-783	Mr President, I would like to I should like to apologise for failing to agree to our Amendment No 1, which I hereby do.
