i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-0	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing three different reports dealing with migration issues, family migration and citizenship. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7, human trafficking, and reservation 34, the enforcement of expulsion decisions, in report 14 and in reservation 15, the labour market reform, in report 15. It has been a tumultuous year in migration policy in all areas. Major changes have taken place in our surrounding world and as a result also here in Sweden. From Sweden's reception in 2014, 80,000 asylum seekers rose this year to nearly 160 000 people. That is a figure that we have never experienced before in our country. This means that in two years almost a quarter of a million people have gone to Sweden. I'll be right back to that. The other day, the EU's agreement with Turkey also entered into force. Migration is, by nature, a cross-border issue that demands that we try to find precisely cross-border solutions whenever possible. It has been justified to try to reach an agreement with Turkey. We need more orderly migration to Europe and to Sweden. Of course, there is a great deal to be said about this agreement, not least about the importance of the EU continuing to push for human rights in Turkey. It has been difficult to form an idea of what the agreement actually means because the information to the Riksdag has sometimes been inadequate. We have received information during meetings in the European Union which have then turned out to be about completely different things from what we have raised. Sometimes I even get the impression that the government itself does not know what the meetings in the EU are going to take up, let alone have been transparent in the negotiations. I find this regrettable, because it has made it difficult to reach a consensus here in Parliament. There are still a number of questions, I would say, about how the agreement will work. Nevertheless, we have a situation where it is not possible to allow things to continue as they have always done. As I said, we need more orderly migration to Europe. It is impossible to give all the people who want it asylum. Nor is that what the right of asylum is about, but it requires that it be able to choose the person who has grounds for protection and give protection to the person in front of the person who has no such reason. We need to ensure that the activities of the refugee smugglers cease and are replaced by a system that is orderly, humane and long-term. We must now monitor the implementation and operation of the agreement. Clearly, the driving forces to get to Europe remain very strong. I think it is naive to say that the refugee crisis would be over. Even more naive it was to say the same in December, because really no one knows yet how this will end. Will the agreement with Turkey work? What is to happen to the estimated 600 000 unregistered migrants reported to be in Germany? In an environment that remains very uncertain, it is responsible to continue to implement reforms, both in order to create order and order in migration policy and to strengthen the perseverance of the asylum system. Mr President, I would like to The situation in Sweden remains under great pressure. The waiting times of the Migration Board are at historical levels. At the turn of the year there were 180 000 people enrolled in the reception system. We know that a large number of homes are missing in the coming months. However, we have only scratched the surface of the really big challenge, and that is integration. Housing can be arranged on short notice. Maybe it won't be the accommodation you want. It may not be in the places you would have liked, but it can be solved. Integration into the labour market is quite different. It is a much more difficult and complex issue. Fundamentally, there is a great opportunity in migration. Several of the world's most dynamic economies have a great deal of openness. It is enough to look at a large country in the west to see examples of this. But with that said, we must be able to have another thought in mind at the same time, namely that not all people can come to Sweden at once. A country with 10 million people in the long run cannot, I mean, take the responsibility that several other and much larger countries should have taken. It just doesn't work. Does the person who thinks it doesn't matter how many people come here at once really visited a crowded facility somewhere in Sweden? Well, it matters. Resources are not unlimited, not even in a rich country like Sweden, at least not if we want to continue to give people seeking protection here a good and orderly reception. Lately, the government has now taken certain measures to dampen the search pressure against Sweden, or it has perhaps rather announced that action should be taken. The legislation that would actually have been in place quite soon has still not even been seen on Parliament's table. In this context, it would, of course, have been beneficial if the government had already listened to the Moderates in the last autumn when we put forward proposals on temporary residence permits, subsistence requirements for family migration, the resumption of medical age assessments of unaccompanied young people and so on. In that case, the government might not have had to now carry out the almost panicous reversal that we have now experienced, which first says that Europe should not build any walls to introduce ID checks and legislation a few weeks later at the EU minimum level. You do not have to belong to the opposition in this House to say that it is impossible to find a common thread in that policy. Perhaps this is precisely what has been the great shortcoming of migration policy. It has always been the step behind and based on how we want things to be, but it has not planned for how it can actually be. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates have changed their migration policy following the new situation in our world. We continue to believe in transparency as a value and in helping those in need of protection. But in a situation where in two years Sweden has received a quarter of a million people, which we have never been near before, our answers cannot be the same as when a fraction of so many came here. Opening one's heart and showing humanity is a good start, but that in itself will not solve the problems of the housing market or deal with billions of costs or poor integration. It simply requires that we also have open eyes and realise that we are facing huge challenges in the future. The attitude of the Moderates is that we need to have a temporary break in the reception of refugees, in that the person who comes to Sweden's border without having first registered in another EU country, as the regulations today actually provide for it to be done, should return there and do so. This break should continue for as long as is necessary to re-establish order in the reception chain. I am thinking, for example, of the long processing times, the lack of accommodation and so on. This is an exceptional measure. But Sweden is also in an exceptional situation which is unprecedented in the rest of Europe. In addition, Mr President, we also need to make a number of other changes. I would like to point out a few here today. Firstly, we need to tighten the penalties for trafficking in human beings. Sometimes I have noticed in the Swedish debate that what traffickers do would help other people in some way and that it may not really be so dangerous. I've read several interviews on that theme. But it is clear that when you stand there in Turkey, as many of us in this House did only last autumn, and meet people from the UNHCR, who tell you how the refugee smugglers place women and children in completely sea-inept craft on a death seal over the Mediterranean Sea, equipped with life jackets made of paper – made of paper! – then I think we were many who got a completely different view of their activities and what it was about, namely about one thing: making money from the desperation of vulnerable people. Today's penalty rates for this crime are so low that the police find it difficult to access the coercive measures needed to investigate the crimes. We can't have that. We need to bring about a change here. Secondly, there must be a difference between a yes and a no in the asylum process. It may sound obvious, but that is not the case. The Finnish Immigration Service is flagged by the fact that it is estimated that 46 000 people will go underground in the coming years. In addition, there are now 20 000 expulsion cases. It is more than a medium-sized Swedish city, which soon risks being in shadow society. We're not going to accept that it's emerging. It undermines confidence in migration policy, creates exclusion and leads to vulnerability in many people. It is not humane to look between your fingers when people choose to be illegally in the country. The problems I mean are only getting bigger the longer you wait, when you have stayed in the country, been able to root here and make friends. It is important that the police give priority to return work. But it is also important to have the resources to do so. The Moderates pointed out last year that a further 1 000 people were needed within the Police Office. Then the government chose not to do anything. Now I'm saying you can't wait any longer. We also need to strengthen the possibility of taking people into custody if there is a risk that the person departs. It is quite unreasonable, of course, that there are currently no possibilities for detention north of Gävle. The police in Norrland testify that people are no longer being taken into custody because it is simply not possible to take them there. The Moderates have already stated in the past that in this year's economic spring exercise we will allocate financial resources for at least one additional detention in Sweden. Thirdly, in the midst of the refugee crisis, we must not forget that migration contains more aspects than those we read about in the newspapers. An important one is the possibility that labour immigrants to Sweden, to come here and with their work contribute to a better Sweden. In fact, much remains to be done here. Labour migration to Sweden goes down, and it is important that laws and regulations are designed and adapted in a way that makes it easier for people to come here. Mr President, I would like to I want to finish where I started. It's hard to tell about the future. The challenges remain very large – so great that sometimes you can feel very small in front of them. The responsibility in this situation is not to pretend that the challenges will soon disappear or to want to bring Sweden on a path to secrecy for ideological reasons. The responsibility in this situation is to formulate a policy of order and order in migration policy. The Moderates have presented a large number of proposals in this direction over the past year, and we will continue to do so in the future.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-31	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating migration and citizenship-related movements from general exercise time in three different reports. We can easily see that during this year and especially since we stood here a year ago, an extremely great deal has happened in this area. We have seen how the volumes of immigration, which have already been at unreasonably high levels in the past, have broken record again. With over 162 000 asylum seekers in one year, there is no doubt that we have the highest number of asylum seekers throughout the EU. We have seen the end of the December Agreement already nine months after its conclusion. We have seen how some parties have changed their migration policy from one day to another, but without making any further strong proposals. I think that is regrettable. We have also seen how the government, including the Green Party, has implemented parts of the Swedish Democrats' policy, which is gratifying. We have seen how ugly the epithet, such as racism and xenophobia, which in the past was thrown at all those who criticised immigration policy, has suddenly disappeared in the media. It is also a bit interesting given, among other things, what Johan Forssell said just now in the speaker's chair. Anyone understands that volumes matter. There is a certain difference from before, when Fredrik Reinfeldt flew over Sweden and said that there is so much land. There is a certain difference from those who said that we must open our hearts. But Johan Forssell also said something quite different, which is very positive, namely that we must open our eyes. That is what the Swedish Democrats – not since last autumn, but since 2010 – have been standing here in Parliament and saying. A lot has happened, as I said, and in the wake of Reinfeldt and Lövven's irresponsible policy, we can glimpse shades of positive development. But, Mr President, there is still far too little to do, and there is still an incredible amount to do. In this area, the Swedish Democrats have presented a number of committee initiatives during the year, which have unfortunately not been supported despite the crisis we have seen in the previous year. I cannot stress enough how sad it is that it would go this far for more parties to act on the migration issue and adapt their policies to those of the Swedish Democrats. The social changes that are taking place as a direct consequence not only affect us economically today, but above all affect us economically and socially in the long term. For this reason, I can only regret that there are no more than the Swedish Democrats who choose to highlight sharp proposals that actually have a major impact on society in the future in order to reverse this negative trend. Until then, you all lack credibility, which I am sure both ours and your constituents see. During the previous year, 39 000 asylum seekers came to Sweden who claimed to be young people between 13 and 17 years of age. The vast majority of these are young boys or men. In some municipalities, between 30 and 50 per cent of upper secondary school pupils are newly arrived, and in Sweden as a whole this means that 12 per cent of all upper secondary school students are newly arrived. Of course, this affects school results for all students. It also negatively affects the possibility for newcomers to become part of our society, which should be the goal for everyone in here. But, many say, these will be able to be included in society through early efforts and be able to influence and help in the construction of society. Then I would just like to ask everyone a simple question: how? The proposals do not exist. For eight years with the alliance government and Fredrik Reinfeldt, nothing in this area has improved. You've waved it away with the usual phrase: we need to get better. Yes, of course we need to get better. And yet you keep going. Stefan Löfven and the current government continue with a disastrous policy. As I said, we also see the absence of proposals to reverse developments. That is nothing more than regrettable. If you listen to the public debate, there should reasonably be a lot of concrete proposals. But where are they? When we look at the motions today, how many suggestions are there? The only ones who can influence significantly in any direction come from the Swedish Democrats – no others. Mr President, I would like to The level of education among newcomers is relatively low, and labour market matching is very poor. In the municipality after municipality we can see that while native Swedes to a greater extent actually get more jobs, the number of foreign born with income support continues to increase. Despite unreasonably good conditions to compete with native Swedes on the labour market, the increase continues. We also see a distorted distribution in which newly arrived women have in many cases never worked at all during their lives. That is regrettable. Figures from 2014 clearly break the myth of Syrians' high level of education. There are many Syrians who have a lot to offer, but the fact is that the statistics and figures that many refer to about the high level of education in many cases are not correct at all. I thought I'd list some examples. Firstly, only 10% of Syrians have an academic education. Secondly, asylum migration reduces the level of education in the country. It's a fact if you look demographically. Thirdly, 50% of Syrians have primary education or lower education. Fourthly, 33% have less education than six years of primary education. These are some simple examples that should make it clear to most that it does not work. It is difficult to get in this many people who do not have the skills that we need in our country. I can't. And if possible, where are the proposals? A few months ago, in a report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, we saw that the proportion of full-year employees, including entrepreneurs among refugees and including refugee relatives, was only 25 per cent after eight years. After 15 years, the share was only 34 per cent. When it looks like this, it is no wonder that we see increased insecurity and an increasing number of exclusion areas. It is no wonder that more people are beginning to engage in criminal activities. Nor is it any wonder that many newcomers become unemployed when we have a shortage of jobs for low-skilled workers and when the state is doing more and more, which means that newcomers do not have to take responsibility for adapting to our society themselves. These problems are not improved by continuing with a labour market policy which is one of the most liberal in the world and which fuels both wage dumping and unfair competition for Swedish unemployed people against workers on the international market in other countries. Anyone can understand that it is not sustainable for Swedish unemployed to compete with people from all over the world. Mr President, I would like to I do not know how many times I and my colleagues from the Swedish Democrats have stood here in this pulpit talking about the consequences of the immigration policy being conducted and how the state has stolen money from honest citizens who, despite the deterioration of their welfare, are forced to pay for a migration chaos that they have never been asked about. In addition to the huge number of asylum seekers, even more family migrants are added, which is why more restrictions and higher demands are needed here too for improved adaptation and for an improved opportunity for society to reduce the exclusion that many of these people end up in. The problems associated with migration policy are not just about the number of people coming to Sweden. It is also about people who have settled in our country also becoming part of our society. Including people here should be everyone's goal. The Swedish Democrats believe that those who intend to stay in Sweden should also strive to become Swedish citizens – otherwise it is no point. If you come here and live here your whole life, you're going to be Swedish. Citizenship should be linked to nationality, not only in the legal sense, but also in terms of identity and belonging. The application for citizenship is to be regarded as an application to formalise the existing relationship with the country. For this reason, the importance of citizenship must be strengthened and citizenship must be a confirmation that it is now a part of this country. Mr President, I would like to To this day, we refuse to realise that drastic changes are needed to maintain any kind of social stability. For us to maintain our well-being and for us to enable a fair future for future generations, change is needed. We are not doing this by undermining the right of asylum and by allowing all those who make their way through a number of safe countries to obtain asylum in Sweden. This undermines the right to asylum. We are not doing this by violating international agreements, such as the Dublin regulation on the first country of asylum as a principle. These are systems that are set up to help many refugees around the world and to make it work to have international cooperation between countries in order to help as many people as possible. Nor do we do that by promoting the smuggling of refugees. I would like to pay tribute to Johan Forssell there because he wants to tighten the penalties for smuggling refugees and try to prevent this. The fact is, however, that the government promotes this activity by allowing people to travel all over the world and come here and by offering conditions that make people want to come here and take part of our welfare and of what we have here in Sweden. What we do and which can influence this is about clear proposals here in the Swedish Parliament to stop the flow of people who come here and make sure that existing immigrants become part of our society, rather than encouraging them to maintain parallel societies in society as they do today. The Swedish democrats have put forward a large number of proposals to overcome the abuse of trust that Swedish rulers have been dealing with in recent decades. When I stood here a year ago, I lined up a number of costs that are the result of the huge volumes of people who have already chosen to go to our country. Not surprisingly, these costs have increased significantly, which has also, as at the time, led to deterioration for the most vulnerable people. Aid money is being used incorrectly all the time. This is also linked to migration policy. If we are to talk about opening our hearts and being humane, we must also raise our eyes and look at aid money. It is therefore unreasonable to make a statement in the aid budget in order to pay for this unreasonable reception in Sweden. Money to support refugees is best spent in the neighbourhood near countries that have problems, not in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats obviously support all their reservations in these three reports, but for time, I only call for reservations 1 and 3 in SfU11, for reservations 9, 31 and 35 in SfU14 and for reservations 1, 16 and 20 in SfU15.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-58	Mr President, I would like to A few days ago I sat on a floor in Greece and drew on a piece of cardboard. On my knee I had a sleeping eight-year-old. His little sister Salam asked me to draw their baba, their father, next to the house we drew together. When I asked her where her father is, she replied that he is in Sweden. Abdou and Salam live together with their mother Elham and their five siblings, who are between five months and twelve years of age, in accommodation for particularly vulnerable refugees on the island of Lesbos. They are among the lucky few who are still able to move forward legally, this time through family reunification, as they arrived before the EU-Turkey agreement entered into force on 20 March. Of course, their waiting is difficult, but they still have hope. They're on their way. Just a little distance from there, in the Moria camp, other refugees are locked up waiting to be sent back to Turkey. About 40% of those locked up there are children. Many of them have a parent sitting in another EU country waiting for them. When I asked Mother Elham why she brought the children on this deadly voyage across the sea, she replied that there was no other option. When her husband left Syria last August, the idea was that they would wait in Idlib for him to enter the EU, apply for a residence permit, get it and apply for family reunification. Then Elham and the seven children would get on a plane and get safely to Sweden to reunite with him. But the situation in Idlib got worse. The bombs fell around, and the neighbors died. Elham had no alternative but to take the children and flee. Turkey has closed the border with Syria. A lot of people don't think it's closed, but it is. There is no way into Turkey. If the border guards see that people are trying to get in, they're on them with sharp-loaded weapons. A lot of people have died that way. If you still get into Turkey, you risk being sent back if the police catch you. It is no longer possible to seek legal protection there. So there is no alternative but to try to move on. That's exactly what Elham did. At the same accommodation, I also met an older woman. She was about the same age as my own grandmother — over 80. Her husband has several serious diseases, and he can barely get out of his room. She herself had to go straight to the hospital when their rubber boat came into the beach. They are also Syrians, and they arrived before March 20. They can either seek asylum in Greece or try to be relocated to another EU country. But the only country they want to offer no places. Their son lives in Västerås, and to Sweden they must not come. As we all know, over 60 million people are on the run around the world, and every day there are many, many more – not fewer in any way at all. The vast majority are in the immediate vicinity of the conflict or still inside the countries of origin. Only a few will move on, and they will now be fewer. At the same time, more resources and focus are being put on trying to prevent people from fleeing, surviving or reuniting with their loved ones – like Elham. This is happening not least at European level. We in the Center Party want the EU to have a common asylum policy, but it must safeguard the right of asylum and human rights. Anything else is unacceptable. It should be for everyone. The party movement that forms the basis of what I am talking about today and our reservations were raised early this autumn during the general exercise period. In this exercise, we propose a series of good and important reforms, such as making it easier to become a Swedish citizen, opening up more opportunities for family immigration, creating more legal ways in, including by increasing the number of quota refugees, introducing humanitarian visas, reviewing transporter responsibilities and creating more opportunities by offering scholarships or making it easier for workers to immigrate. When we wrote the motion, the proposals felt perfectly reasonable and not at all impossible to gain support for in the Riksdag. But after this autumn and winter, even the most basic thing shakes. It is no longer a question of taking more steps towards a more humane refugee policy. Instead, it is an attempt to prevent deterioration and restriction. The most obvious example in Sweden is the proposals for amendments to the Aliens Act that the government has presented. If implemented, Sweden, together with Malta and Cyprus, will offer absolutely the worst protection to refugees of all EU countries, worse than countries such as Hungary, Poland and Greece, where I have just been and seen people sleeping on cardboard boxes. The changes will make integration more difficult. They will increase the administration. Families will no longer live together. It will be banned. Severely ill children will not be allowed to stay. Families will be kept apart in every way possible. The Migration Board will be forced to expel people who are at risk of death. Even though the handlers at the Migration Board know this, they will not have the opportunity to leave these people behind. I know it sounds like I'm exaggerating, but I'm not. In a situation where fewer and fewer people enter the EU and fewer and fewer people enter Sweden – in the last seven days 549 people have applied for asylum in Sweden, much less than in several years during this period – I honestly cannot understand how the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party can defend such restrictions. I really can't believe it. I therefore sincerely hope that the proposals will be reconsidered, withdrawn and put forward new proposals that will give people new hope. We in the Center Party are still behind all our reservations, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 2 in SfU14 and reservation 5 and the alliance reservation a 15 in SfU15.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-74	Mr President, I would like to Johanna Jönsson gave a very emotional speech. It is recurring in politics to look at only individual stories about people that it is actually a pity for. But the fact is that not too long ago Johanna Jönsson's party was also in government. Problems with alienation in Sweden and problems with conflict areas already existed then. That was really bad. Then the conflict in Syria has worsened. We know that there are conflicts in Africa that we cannot even read about in the newspapers. There is a conflict in Yemen. People in many different countries of the world are having a difficult time, and they are not being discussed at all. Why not? These are people who, in many cases, are extremely vulnerable and remain in their own countries – wherever they may be. People need the international community to get food for the day, medicines and water to drink or wash. These issues will come back to the debate. You cannot talk about migration policy in Sweden as humane if it is not about the quota refugee system. I have spoken several times about money being taken from the aid budget. Johanna Jönsson's party does just like the government, namely does not give any increased funding for an increased reception in Sweden. If more money is proposed there, which the other parties do not have, I wonder where the money comes from.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-78	Mr President, I would like to I did not really understand the last question about the money for people in Sweden. We are not talking about the budget today, but about our three reports with motions from the general period of exercise. Markus Wiechel will be happy to ask his question again and I will try to answer it. Then there was the question of helping in the immediate area, which we have discussed many times before. This is something the Swedish Democrats usually talk about. This is not possible in the case of, for example, the conflict in Syria. In many conflicts in Africa, people have moved to camps in neighbouring countries. In many cases they have lived there for many years. There are adults born in refugee camps. I talked to UNHCR representatives for a long time when I visited Lesbos the other week. They described that the difference is that in Africa the UNHCR has the opportunity to help on site in the camps. People have made it out. They also help quota refugees from there with resettlement for the most vulnerable, those who do not make it in refugee camps. This is often the case with quota refugees. As far as the immediate region of Syria is concerned, there is nothing to do anymore on the ground. Among other things, Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey have closed their borders. They don't let people out of Syria. Jordan has said that if you let one person out, someone else has to leave. Thus, some other country must accept a person for resettlement in order for Jordan to release someone from Syria. This is the situation of the countries in the region. It is clear that we need to improve the conditions in place for those who remain. Especially schooling is incredibly important and also job opportunities. What makes sense, for example, that Lebanon should take such an infinitely greater responsibility than other countries should? It is not only about Sweden but also many other countries. In this context, we have proposed a number of changes to reduce costs in Sweden.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-85	Mr President, I would like to Of course, there is more to be done in the immediate vicinity. Today, the UNHCR receives only 50% of the resources it needs to meet its current commitments. There are other organizations. In Syria, the church helps vulnerable people, both Christians and Muslims, in various areas. It is congregations that can be supported. It's a little strange. I apologise if I was a little unclear earlier about the economy, but it is clear that the economy is related to what one can advocate and do in Swedish legislation as well. If you cannot cover the costs, you cannot carry out or you simply have to increase taxes or reduce any other part of your welfare. This is really my question to Johanna Jönsson mainly concerns. Ironically, it was a center party Member of Parliament, Staffan Danielsson, who received a report from the parliamentary investigation service a few months ago. I also mentioned it in my speech. The report shows that only 25 percent of immigrants who have been in Sweden for eight years have been in full-time employment. After 15 years the figure n had only increased marginally, to 34 percent. This is an important part of the discussion; people who come here must enter the labour market. Here it is now said that the Center Party has come up with several proposals. But under government the problem worsened. When the Center Party and others were in the government, things got worse. Afterwards they have continued with a policy that makes more and more people want to go to Sweden. As it sounds at Johanna Jönsson, the Center Party, like the Left Party, is still willing to have completely open borders.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-89	Mr President, I would like to When I said that there is no more work to be done in the neighbourhood, I meant exactly what I said at the time: People are not released. The countries in the immediate vicinity are not prepared to take care of and allow in more people. Markus Wiechel says you should help inside Syria. There is no country in the world right now that says that there are safe areas inside Syria where one can help. Is this really the view of the Swedish Democrats on how people should be helped in general? Is it the same if it's someone who's been kidnapped? Shouldn't the police help them get out of there? Should you instead send food packages to this person? It's absurd. It is clear that people who are in this situation must be able to get out of there and not be helped in the middle of a conflict where bombs are falling. I can't believe you can stand by that line. When it comes to reducing the costs of integration and so on, we had an integration debate the other week in Parliament. There we raised a number of the proposals we have. The Center Party has put forward a great many proposals. Mr Jag would like to say that we are one of the parties that has put forward the most proposals to reduce costs and redeploy systems for people to get into work more quickly. It is in some cases quite radical proposals that have not been tabled before. There is much that needs to be done, and I wish the government would take much more of this. The last day before yesterday my party leader Annie Lööf had a press conference where she presented further proposals to reduce costs but also for people to get into work faster. When people work, it can contribute to the well-being and strengthen it, but it can also make room for more people. Helping people inside Syria is not an option at the moment – not until the conflict is over and you can start building the country. People need to be able to move on. It is not reasonable for Lebanon, Jordan or Turkey to take all responsibility. That's completely unreasonable.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-94	Mr President, I would like to I had actually prepared another speech here today, but I must first say that I have been working on refugee policy for six years, 24 hours a day. I've been thinking a lot about these things. Before going to Lesbos last autumn, I felt that I knew and really understood that there are no legal ways into Europe for people seeking protection. I understood it intellectually. I had met quite a few people who had told me about the trip across the sea. This applies both to those who have survived and to their families and those who have told of the greatest horror of all – the moment when you cannot hold on longer and the child, the beloved, the brother or neighbor slips into the waves. I'd met them. Yet it was only on the beach of Lesbos that I really understood what Europe is demanding of people on the run. What is it? It's that they put their lives in pledges to come here and seek asylum. Nothing less than life is enough for that. With the agreement between the EU and Turkey, even life as a pledge is not enough. When you reach Europe, we are waiting for frozen camps and, in many cases, deportation back to Turkey. What's waiting there? It's refugee camps and maybe deportation back to the hell of war in Syria. The government agrees to this as part of a breathing room. I can't help but call it a betrayal. Anyone who has seen the reception of refugees in Greece at close range understands that it is neither worthy, legally secure nor stable. We in the committee were in Greece a few years ago and saw it with our own eyes. Precisely because the reception conditions are so poor and the legal certainty so low, asylum seekers have not been sent back to Greece for years, as the Dublin Agreement otherwise provides. Yet it is precisely Greece, a country in acute economic crisis and with a crumbled state, and Turkey, a country that does not accept non-European refugees, which is in a position to exercise the right of asylum on behalf of the EU and Sweden. Turkey is sending refugees back to Syria and deporting returnees from other countries instead of examining their asylum grounds. The reports from Turkey on gross violations of human rights, restrictions on freedom of expression and growing repression of the country's Kurds are mutually reinforcing. This is the reality behind the clean wording of the agreement on the right to asylum. There has been much talk of naivety this year. If it is something that is naive to believe, or pretend to be, it is that the right of asylum will be maintained under conditions that actually exist in Greece and Turkey. To see what reception conditions were offered in what was then a registration camp, Moria of Lesbos, in October was quite shocking. It was quite clear that the Greek police lacked the will, ability and ability to treat people in a dignified way. People lacked a roof over their heads while waiting, and they slept on just the ground with that little rusty blanket they got when they got out of the water. No food was distributed by the Greek authorities. It was only thanks to the help of NGOs, large and small, that absolutely basic things could work anyway. Then it is so terribly naive when we sit in committee and sit and pretend that it is possible to make a fine, good and dignified system in such a place. You can't let down any containers and think that there, while people are sleeping outdoors, you should be able to test people's asylum reasons. We all understand that. We can't pretend it's any other way. It's naive. It's dishonest. Moria is one of the places hidden behind the word hotspot. Sounds like a nice place on the beach. Today, instead, the same place is fenced and locked — a prison. We can also call it something nice, but that's what it is. It is also deeply naive to believe that it is possible to stop people fleeing for their lives. One of man's amazing powers is that he tries to move on, tries to improve his life, and tries to make his cubs survive. It's one of the strongest things in man. No fences, no barbed wire, and no walls in the world can stop that escape. Only peace and justice can do that. Yet that is not what we are talking about, but about the barbed wire, the fences and how to stop people – when we would have to devote all our energy to peace, to justice and to providing people with the protection they need. When the road between Turkey and Greece is closed, other roads open: between Libya and Italy and through Russia. With life as a pledge but with an even more uncertain outcome, the journey continues. It is this reality that people on the run live with, regardless of the talk of breathing space, refugee breaks, hotspots, one-for-one and all the other strange, abstract words. It is this reality that is at stake. Mr President, I would like to Since the turn of the year, fewer and fewer people have applied for asylum in Sweden for every month that has passed. If it had been a sign that fewer people need protection from Al-Assad's oil barrels bombs, IS rapes or Eritrea's dictatorship, that would be wonderful news. This would mean that the greatest refugee disaster in modern times was over. But we all know that's not the case. The reason why fewer people are seeking protection from us is not because they have no reason to flee, but it is a direct result of political decisions that have been taken in Sweden and Europe in recent months. Some of those who would have come here are now being shot at by Turkish border guards as they try to get out of Syria. Some of those who would have come here are locked up in camps on the Greek islands. Amnesty reports that deportations do not always end in Turkey. Turkey has since before Christmas sent thousands of people back to war-torn Syria. Some of those who had wanted to seek shelter in Sweden are waiting for the muddy field in Greek Idomeni, where they desperately hope that the border will open. Others don't have the identification papers to get past the checks in Kastrup to their family – if they manage to get that far. None of this has happened by itself. When the Swedish government chose to close the borders and introduce ID controls, the first of many dominoes fell who have since closed the borders between the states of Europe to those seeking protection from war and oppression. At the same time, Sweden has joined a European competition to treat people on the run as badly as possible. Making life insecure and unpleasant for people on the run has become a political vision that brings together both the government and large parts of the bourgeoisie. Soon it will come out in proposals at Parliament's table on temporary residence permits and on laws that will divide families for years to come. There are those who say that we have done what we could. But while the door slams in the face of people fleeing, tax evasion escapes. While the various parties compete daily to make moves to shut out, pressure and suspect and make people who have come here insecure or poor, we see that the richest people in society get away with their tax evasion. It is estimated that 650 billion are kept away in the EU every year. It is unbelievable seven times as much as the acute refugee crisis costs the EU. For Sweden, it is estimated that more than 40 billion are being held away from our common welfare. Where are your press conferences about that? Where is the political competition to frame these cheaters and stop the theft of tax money to go to welfare? This, if anything, puts pressure on our systems. This, if anything, is a threat to our welfare. But obviously it is easier to compete in treating vulnerable people badly and exert more pressure on a working class that is kneeling with demands for lower wages and higher rents. Mr President, I would like to To want to make Sweden a worse and safer country should be a difficult-sold political vision, but yet it is this sad and sad vision that the government presents. The proposals on temporary residence permits as a general rule and family fragmentation will create the very opposite of integration. Everyone knows that, even the government. Uncertainty has never been a good foundation for building a future. But it is precisely insecurity for the future, broken families, vulnerability and dependence on employers to stay as the government offers people who come to Sweden. It is doubtful whether the proposals are even compatible with the European Convention on the right to family life. In addition to the obvious suffering, the proposals run the risk of leading to less establishment, less integration, less health and less use of people's skills and society's resources. The most important political proposal anyone in this House can make is that the government withdraws these thoughts about family fragmentation and temporary residence permits. Mr President, I would like to Finally, there is, of course, another way than to close the door in the face of people fleeing. Everyone knows that. It's not an inevitable journey to do that. We must protect the right of asylum. We must create more legal roads and not force people into boats, under lorries and in containers. We must ensure that people are not forced to put their lives as a pledge to seek asylum. We must say no to the government's temporary law where insecurity and family fragmentation break people's ability to start their lives in Sweden in a good way. We must broaden the right to family reunification instead of separating families. We must remove the carrier responsibility of airlines, which today makes it impossible for refugees to fly to Europe to seek asylum. We must make it possible to seek asylum visas in embassies outside the EU, and we must increase the number of quota refugees. Above all, we must put pressure on the European Union rather than putting pressure on the refugees. Today's Dublin agreement does not work and must be replaced by a system that guarantees the right of asylum and distributes responsibility fairly. The agreement between the EU and Turkey must be removed. The answer cannot be to passively allow large refugee camps to emerge in Greece, Italy and Macedonia. Nor can the answer be that Turkey should act as the EU's border police in exchange for our silence and refrain from criticising the political persecutions in Turkey. Europe needs a new agreement with clear and fair principles on how to share together the tasks we need to deal with. This requires a division of responsibilities for refugees at European level. As many European countries as possible must participate in a joint and solidarity-based distribution of refugees. However, since there is little evidence that the EU is capable of gathering around such a solution, we need to take other initiatives. One is a coalition of willing people who are prepared to take the lead and contribute to a sustainable situation. Another is that the UN takes a much greater responsibility in this situation. We are prepared to allow the UNHCR to play a major role in distributing refugees in Europe, as has actually happened in the past. We must strengthen the work for peace. We must ensure that welfare is strengthened for a dignified and more flexible reception and faster establishment. We must ensure that those who work with reception do not get caught up in piles of paper and bureaucracy but have the opportunity to do their work in the reception. There's a lot to do here. Mr President, I would like to There is another way in refugee policy than the one that Sweden is currently choosing. We should be proud of the security and future that Sweden offers and develop and improve it. We can build a Sweden that is getting bigger and stronger. We've done that before. Let's do it again! Mr President, I would like to With this, I call for reservations 5 and 8 in SfU15 Family and labour immigration and reservations 10 and 18 in report SfU14 Migration and asylum policy.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-131	Mr President, I would like to Christina Höj Larsen talks about putting pressure on the EU and such things. The only pressure Christina Höj Larsen puts on seems to be the banknote press. There seems to be endless money to both help UNHCR around the world and receive people in Sweden. In fact, it is among other things Christina Höj Larsen's core voters who are most affected by this policy. When there are 60 to 70 million people around the world fleeing for their lives, it rejects the opportunities available to help these people on the ground. I find that deeply regrettable. There is nothing to say that we cannot influence Turkey. Of course, it would be great if you could influence them so that there are better conditions in the refugee camps and so that the Turkish villain regime can start treating people better. But how can you help 60 to 70 million people if you advocate the line that Christina Höj Larsen advocates? How is her policy at all possible? Money doesn't grow on trees, Christina Raise Larsen. What are the Left Party's visions for us to be able to receive so many people, or how many people now want to come to Sweden, and to pay for it without hitting people in the refugee camps?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-136	Mr President, I would like to If you don't go in the arm hook with venture capital and don't choose to prioritise it all the time, there's a little more money. But it is of course quite difficult for Markus Wiechel and SD to imagine because they have chosen side. They think it is perfectly reasonable that our tax money goes to profits in welfare and that it is the richest, the elite, who are always given priority when choosing. Johanna Jönsson explained in a rather exemplary way why one cannot help on site in Syria. Perhaps some of you have seen a small film that is currently on Youtube. It's about what to do if people are trapped in a burning house. Markus Wiechel suggests that we send some buckets of water in there. I suggest we get them out. That's the difference between Left Party and SD. Another difference is that we do not side with the elite when we are going to distribute the money. We're on the side of the working class. People in the working class were born both in Kiruna and Kigali. We don't kick anybody because of where they were born. We have discussed integration policy in the past. There, the Swedish Democrats honestly have no proposals. Your proposals are about people not being here. It is a very naive policy.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-140	Mr President, I would like to The policy we advocate in integration matters worked well in Sweden once upon a time. When we avoided the major integration challenges, as you so nicely call it, there was a Swedish democratic integration policy in Sweden. That's the one we want to adapt to now again. Christina Höj Larsen is hitting very hard on what enables an effective aid system and that we can spend money on, for example, improved opportunities in refugee camps. It is about entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, the kind of thing that is needed for us to do this. In the refugee camps it is not enough to give a bucket of water. That's not what I'm saying. But with the policy of the Left Party and also the government, that is about what you can afford in the end. When you take more and more money from there, you can't afford much more. The Swedish Democrats have the parliament's most generous aid budget for this area. This enables us to offer refugees in the immediate area of protection and to be able to receive training so that you do not get lost generations without having some kind of hope for the future. It is the policy of the Swedish Democrats that makes that possible because we have that money. It doesn't have the Left Party. Christina Höj Larsen can continue to appear rhetorically as being on the side of the weak. But in the end, the banknote press Christina Höj Larsen wants does not exist.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-145	Mr President, I would like to We see it quite clearly. The Swedish Democrats never neglect a chance to kick the weakest. But when it comes to serious issues such as the lack of 40 billion in our cash for welfare, Markus Wiechel twitches his shoulders and says: It's not a problem, of course the elite should get to do it. That is the party that the Swedish Democrats really are. It's the elite party. That's not surprising at all. You've done it time and again. You are backing an economic policy that constantly benefits the richest and ignores those you talk about all the time. That's it. We are fighting, when we negotiate on the budget, to get as much money as possible for aid. As we heard yesterday from the UN Commissioner, it is absolutely essential that we ensure that the UN is assisted on the ground where possible. At the same time, however, we should not pretend that people can stay in burning houses and stand and say to them: Please, here is a small bucket of water. That's what you're saying. That's what you said to Johanna Jönsson, and that's what you answer. These are totally unreasonable answers. We must both help where it goes and ensure that our door is open. There is a completely different economic policy from the one you represent that is needed. It is an economic policy that is redeploying and ensuring that the richest cannot escape their responsibility in our welfare. I represent that policy. You can continue to represent the richest.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-149	Mr President, I would like to I don't know what Friday night looks like at your house. But I think quite a lot of people have it quite like we have it at home in our family. After working week you come home after buying the weekend food on your way home. You throw in a machine wash– it's become a part after the week – and you start preparing tonight's dinner. Actually, it's Friday night, so we'd like some extra good food. It will be soda for the children and maybe even a glass of good wine for us adults. Then it's time for Friday cuddly on the TV couch. There's some family entertainment on TV. Let's take a look at it, listen a little slow, talk and socialize. Let's chew some candy and discuss how the week has been. On the coffee table the candles burn idyllically, and we have it pretty good. Then there's news on TV. It's disturbing our whole Friday evening. The television set fills my living room with wars, conflicts, bombs, people on the run, mass graves, starvation and dying people. Ugly, it's so scary! I don't want it in my living room, because we have Friday cuddly. I want to be left alone. But this is the reality of many of our fellow humans. They live in this all the time. They have neither a home, food on the table nor lights that burn idyllically on the coffee table. Many families are divided. Some of the family members are dead, and other members do not even know where they are or whether they are alive. And they definitely don't have Friday cuddly on the TV couch while the machine centrifuges the laundry. This is so hard to take in, we'll defend ourselves as far as we can. But we cannot turn a blind eye to reality. We must make sure that we do the best we can and help these people who are on the run. And I am absolutely sure that no man is fleeing his home, his family, security, work, friends, and family for pleasure. They have no alternative. They're running for their lives. For us Liberals, it is obvious that we should protect the right of asylum. We have a human duty to help these people who seek protection, including in our country. At the same time, we must work towards good reception and effective integration. The word asylum means sanctuary. A person seeks refuge in a country other than his or her home country. A refugee is a person who is in a country other than that of which he or she is a citizen because he or she has a well-founded fear of persecution on the grounds of race, nationality, reli gous or political opinion, sex, sexual orientation or other belonging to a particular social group and cannot – or because of his or her fear – seek refuge in his or her home country. We Liberals also believe that LGBT people, that is homosexuals, bisexuals and transsexuals, who are seeking asylum in Sweden should not be denied it because they have had to hide their sexuality in their home country because of fear. That is why we say that we need a clearer LGBT perspective in refugee policy. This also applies to European asylum policy, which must have a clear LGBT perspective so that all EU countries have the opportunity to give sanctuary to those who are persecuted or feel this well-founded fear of persecution due to sexual orientation, gender or gender expression. Within the EU, we must have a liberal and solidarity-based refugee policy. We all know that the distribution of refugees into the EU is very uneven. Member States need to share more responsibility for those seeking to join the EU. The EU's common refugee policy must be based on our shared responsibility. Since the exercise time of the motions we are debating today, which we wrote last autumn when the Riksdag had opened, a great deal has happened in this area. But we still have more to do, and we still stand by our liberal proposals. As we have heard before, when we discuss migration policy, it is easy to slip into integration policy, because these areas are closely intertwined. It is a completely different debate, and we are not going to take it in the Chamber right now. But, Mr President, I hope that the people who are now on the run and will seek and get asylum in Sweden can then feel safe and can build themselves a new home here and can also crawl up into the TV sofa and have Friday cozy while the washing machine centrifuges the laundry of the week. Among the reports we are debating today are also the report on family and labour immigration. Sweden is a part of Europe and the world, and we shall be. In order to meet the demand for skilled labour for our companies, there must be effective labour immigration. We and the other alliance parties believe that it is of the utmost importance that the labour immigration reform is managed on the basis of its original purpose, i.e. that employers should be able to recruit and employ from all over the world based on their needs and that people should be able to create better conditions while contributing to the common welfare. Mr President, I would like to I support all the reservations of the Liberals, but, as others have said, for time to come, I only support our reservations 5, 19 and 22 in report SfU14 Migration and asylum policy and reservation 15 in report SfU15 Family and labour migration.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-165	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are talking hotly about more legal ways into Sweden and Europe. At the same time, it voted in favour of the introduction of carrier liability for rail and bus companies and shipping companies last year. I would like to hear a little if the Liberals don't believe in their own politics or how this rhymes with what they've gone out with.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-166	Mr President, I would like to We would like anyone to come to Sweden and settle here anyway. We would wish that we could have open borders throughout the world so that everyone could move freely no matter where you were born. But if the world looks today, it doesn't work, and so do we. We want more legal ways into Sweden. We have been involved and influenced so that we have increased the number of people who have the opportunity to come here legally. We wish there were more of them. At the same time, we were in a situation of great difficulty. We didn't have full control of who entered the country. We had to strike a balance and think: Should we behave this way, should we do it this way? And that's what politics is all about: it's not black or white. We landed in that we were going to do this. I've told you before, and I'm telling you again, I don't know if we did the right thing. I am not sure that anyone in this House knows if it was the right decision, but that was the decision that felt best at the time. That's what we took, and that's what we stand for now.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-170	Mr President, I would like to It was honest, and I appreciate it. In fact, in a number of parliamentary movements, the Liberals have proposed several legal ways in different ways. While promoting transporter responsibility, more legal routes have been actively proposed. That doesn't make any sense. When you discuss these issues, which are quite important, it is not black or white, and you have to see the reality as it is. But this seems to me to be a little out of line with such a thing. We have now heard how, among other things, Emma Larsson in the speaker's chair has spoken warmly for labour migration. Sweden has always received workers from other parts of the world when there has been such a need. And Sweden has implemented the EU Blue Card Directive in a very liberal way, one might call it. It's also a little strange, because all of this isn't black or white. If it is a company that needs labour and that form of labour exists in Sweden, is it not better to offer jobs to the Swedish unemployed than to bring others here and thus put people in Sweden in a vulnerable situation?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-173	Mr President, I would like to My name is Emma Carlsson Löfdahl, Markus Wiechel. Emma Larsson was not in the speaker's chair. As far as I know, no Emma Larsson is in Parliament. As I said, on more legal routes, we have been involved in increasing the number of quota refugees who can come here. It is a good start, but I wish we would continue to work and come up with more concrete proposals. When it comes to labour migration to Sweden, I recognize the ret orik from the Swedish Democrats: Why should v i bring foreigners who steal Swedes' jobs here? I usually think about something. If you were born in Sweden, have Swedish as your native language and have attended the Swedish school, how can a foreigner come and steal your job? Why don't you take it yourself because you're in place first? It doesn't really work the way someone can steal someone else's job. If companies do not get the know-how they need – of course I wish we would have it in Sweden, but it may not exist – they must have the opportunity to recruit from the rest of Europe or the rest of the world in order to grow and expand. It's great that we have that opportunity.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-178	Mr President, I would like to Just as the Social Security Committee debated Category 8 in the budget proposal in December, the debate today is a little strange. This is because, as you know, the international situation has changed radically since the general period of exercise ended in early October. It was then, six months ago, that the motions contained in the SfU11 Citizenship, SfU14 Migration and Asylum Policy and SfU15 Family and labour migration were written and submitted. In addition to the texts of the original motions, it is therefore necessary, of course, to take account of what has happened in the last six months. Let me begin by commenting on the world situation. We all know that there is a humanitarian crisis in the world. War, oppression, Islamic terror groups and persecution of ethnic and religious groups make millions of people run away. At the same time, many others, for perfectly understandable reasons, are looking away from poverty and misery and from what they hope will be a fresh start. In this situation, we should be proud that Sweden has for a long time taken a great deal of responsibility. Last year we took a greater responsibility than any other Western country. We should also be proud of the wave of humanity that, not least during the autumn when the situation was at its most strained here in Sweden, swept over the country. Social Secretary, immigration officer, police officers, pastors, priests, imams, volunteers– many showed strong commitment to helping the people who were in a difficult situation. Without the efforts of volunteers and civil society, I find it very difficult to see that Sweden would have coped with the situation in the autumn as well as we did anyway. It fills us Christian Democrats with confidence and strengthens our faith in man's inherent ability to do good and to contribute in general to a good society. At the end of autumn, however, we were forced to note that our efforts were overpowering. It was partly about our capacity to receive asylum applications in practical terms, but also about our access to housing places, the workload of social services and that the Migration Board's processing times had become unmanageably long. In the future, there are also major challenges linked to, for example, the labour and housing markets and the dimensioning of welfare resulting from large migration. All in all, today we are facing challenges that we are not yet able to fully assess the consequences of. The situation has changed since the current motions were submitted. Mr President, I would like to Since October, temporary internal border controls have been introduced by Sweden but also by several other Schengen countries. Since then, ID controls have been introduced in the case of transport by bus, train or passenger ship to Sweden from another state. Since then, the Government has announced a temporary law restricting the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, with the aim of adapting the Swedish asylum rules to the EU minimum level. Since then, the EU has also concluded a deal with Turkey with a view to halting the smuggling of human beings across the Mediterranean and regaining control of the Union's external border. We in the Christian Democrats have supported the introduction of internal border controls, and we agree that, in the event of serious threats to public order and internal security in the country, the government should be able to introduce identity checks. We have also said that we agree with the thrust of the other proposals put forward by the Government, including provisions for the normal issue of temporary residence permits rather than permanent residence permits. Although it has not been easy, we have also supported the government's approach to the EU-Turkey settlement through the EU Board. All of this lies at the heart of today's exercise of last autumn. In the three motions for resolutions, the Christian Democrats have a total of 17 reservations. I will not go into them all, but instead make a few downfalls. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' starting point is to protect the right of asylum. Sweden has a moral responsibility to help our fellow humans in need. We also want to safeguard transparency and freedom of movement within the EU. However, it is a fact that these values are being put to the test in a situation where the common principles of regulated migration within the EU have been abandoned or at least have changed significantly. This means that many of the conditions on which Swedish asylum policy is based simply do not apply today. It can't go on like that. The Christian Democrats believe that Sweden should press ahead within the EU with stricter requirements and the introduction of sanctions against those countries that fail to meet their commitments in refugee policy. These may include sanctions in the form of frozen payments and grants to countries that violate the EU's agreed rules in the area of asylum and refugee protection. All Member States must keep to what has been agreed and be able to offer refugees humane and fair treatment. On this point, Amendment No 11 to the SfU14 report is concerned, and I would like to support it. Within the SfU14, I would like to highlight two further reservations. As far as reservation 16 on the Dublin Regulation and the EU is concerned, we are forced to note that the Dublin Regulation has since last autumn failed in the sense that some countries are releasing refugees and migrants without registering them as asylum seekers. In this way, they can move forward in the EU and seek asylum in any country. But that's not how it's supposed to work. Therefore, there is a need for a functioning quota allocation system in Europe, so that all EU countries are involved and contribute. As regards reservation 37 on the enforcement of expulsion decisions, we know that Sweden has received criticism from both the UN Committee on Torture and the Council of Europe Committee on Torture for the detention of asylum seekers. On certain occasions detention is used as a substitute for detention, due to the lack of detention places. It is therefore important that the number of detention centres be increased so that detention centres do not need to be used as often as possible. We also know that this need will be considerably greater in the coming years, as the number of expulsion cases can be expected to increase significantly. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the SfU15 report, I would like to focus on reservations 14 and 15, which deal in various respects with the possibilities of labour immigration. Although very many people have come to Sweden as asylum seekers in recent years, there is no labour force in several important professions for Sweden. This is because a relatively small proportion of newcomers have the level of education and qualifications needed to take up the jobs available. One consequence of this is that Sweden's unemployment rate has decreased over the past year, but the division of the labour market is becoming increasingly clear at the same time. It is very difficult for people with low qualifications to gain a foothold in the labour market, while there is a very large shortage of certain highly educated professions. This partly means that the Swedish labour market needs more simpler jobs with lower entry wages. But this also means that labour migration to Sweden is absolutely central to our economy's strong development in the future. There is a need for more ways in for those who want to come to Sweden to work. For example, the Christian Democrats want foreign students in Sweden to be given the opportunity to stay at least six months after completing studies in order to apply for a job or start a business. At the same time, the labour migration reform should be managed on the basis of its basic objective. It is about employers being able to recruit employees from all over the world based on needs and that people should be allowed to create better conditions for themselves, while contributing to the common. I would therefore like to support reservations 14 and 15 in the SfU15 report. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the SfU11 Citizenship report, I would like to focus on reservation 3. Swedish citizenship is not just anything. That means many rights, but also obligations. The rights include the right to vote obtained in parliamentary elections. However, citizenship also means the right to seek certain types of services within the police, the court and the military, the unconditional right to reside in the country and the possibility of consular assistance in the event of problems abroad. With citizenship, the citizen also becomes part of something in common with a stronger sense of participation, belonging and identity. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, it is important to emphasise that citizenship also entails obligations. It is about taking responsibility for society by contributing to the common good. It's about following the laws. And it is about taking responsibility for the governance of society by participating in the democratic elections. The Christian Democrats believe that the importance of citizenship should be enhanced. Among other things, we want to do this by introducing requirements for applicants for citizenship to undergo education in social orientation and to gain knowledge of Swedish society. In this way, the new citizens will also be better able – and actively – to exercise their civil rights as well as their obligations. Accordingly, I would like to call for the approval of paragraph 3 of the SfU report11. Mr President, I would like to To conclude, I would like to make it clear that we Christian Democrats naturally support all our reservations in the three reports we are dealing with today. However, for time to come, we refrain from calling for their approval in this House.
i-RRpCRobc1SDX9f71SdM8wu	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposals in the reports on Migration and Asylum Policy, Family and Labour Immigration and Citizenship and for the rejection of all reservations. The current refugee situation, with 60 million people on the run, is the worst and most difficult since the Second World War, which many of the debaters have mentioned here. Very many people are engaged on several levels in society. Swedish authorities cooperate at national, regional and local level, and there is widespread volunteer work to take care of refugees who have come to Sweden. I can take my own football club, LFK, which, for example, has activities in the afternoons for unaccompanied girls and boys. This is also a way of promoting integration and meeting people, both adults and children. Municipalities, county councils, schools and police cooperate locally and regionally to receive asylum seekers. Government agencies and county boards work to support and facilitate collaboration between municipalities and relevant authorities. Mr President, I would like to More people than ever before apply for and have applied for asylum in Sweden in recent years. Last year there were 163 000 asylum seekers, 114 000 in the last four months of the year. Of these, about 70 000 were children, 36 000 of whom were unaccompanied minors. During the last four months of the year there were 26,000 unaccompanied minors. If you turn this into school classes, there will be about 1 000 new school classes. I have discussed the current situation locally, in Sweden, in Europe and in the EU. In this context, we can feel proud, partly because we have received so many, partly because children have the opportunity to attend school and be included in the welfare society. When you bring this up with politicians from other countries, they are surprised and impressed. Some even say that this is not the way to deal with asylum seekers. Some people think that we should not accept so many people or include them in society as we have done. Here, many in the EU countries and Europe should think about and not just be impressed but say that we should jointly share responsibility for receiving refugees who have fled here from war and conflict. The distribution of asylum seekers between EU countries has been, and is, very uneven, and the government has promoted greater solidarity within the EU by pursuing the issue of a well-functioning European asylum system in which all Member States live up to the common legislation and where asylum seekers are received and have their applications examined in an equivalent manner. The government has been a strong driver for all Member States to provide more protection through resettlement. Unfortunately, although decisions have been taken, little is happening. If we shared responsibility together, it would not involve such a great deal of commitment for any of the countries of Europe or the European Union. In the autumn, when we saw the increasing number of asylum seekers coming to Sweden, an agreement was reached with the alliance parties. However, listening to the debate, it is difficult to call them alliance parties, because they are very different on this issue. The agreement reached at the beginning of the autumn was between the government parties and the alliance parties. One of the proposals was to set up an investigation to analyse the conditions for creating legal ways of seeking asylum in the European Union, which we would wish was already the current situation. Instead, hundreds of both children and adults have risked and lost their lives and also drowned on their way across the Mediterranean. Insensitive traffickers have thus allowed innocent people to die to make money out of other people's desire to avoid war. After all, human smugglers do not try to save lives; they actually lure people into death. The situation regarding the distribution of refugees is the same both within the EU and within Sweden. In Sweden, responsibility for the reception of new arrivals must be shared between municipalities. Today, reception is inadequate and unevenly distributed. The Act, which entered into force on 1 March, is expected to shorten waiting times and allow more new arrivals to be accepted for residence in the municipalities by way of instructions rather than by taking up residence on their own. The law does not change the ability of the new arrivals to arrange their own accommodation. Mr President, I would like to The distribution of instructions is based on local government's labour market conditions, population size, total reception of newly arrived and unaccompanied minors and the extent of asylum seekers staying in the municipality. Municipalities with a good labour market, a large population, low reception and relatively few asylum seekers will receive more new arrivals than municipalities with fewer opportunities. This means that more new arrivals will come to municipalities where there are good conditions for establishment. The proposed Act primarily covers new arrivals staying at the Finnish Immigration Service's housing facilities and quota refugees. This means that new arrivals who have settled on their own will only be subject to instructions when the municipalities are deemed to have the necessary conditions for this. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, there is extensive development work in progress aimed at a sustainable reception of new arrivals throughout the country and a faster establishment in work and social life. Together with the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, the Government has agreed on several initiatives, which I mentioned earlier, including the provision of Swedish education and mandatory social orientation during the asylum period, and the strengthening of activities that promote contacts with and participation in society. We also know that it is now being implemented in many places, for example through study associations or other voluntary organisations. A special investigator is tasked with proposing measures to create a coherent system for the reception and residence of asylum seekers and new arrivals. The investigator will analyse, among other things, how actions that support future establishment in society and working life, such as language training, can enter asylum reception. Mr President, I would like to As far as labour migration is concerned, which is one of the issues on which today's debate is concerned and which several have discussed, it is the case that the government has commissioned a special investigator to investigate the extent to which labour migrants are exploited on the Swedish labour market. The investigator shall consider, inter alia, requirements for the submission of a contract of employment in connection with the application for a work permit, limitations in the employer's ability to reduce the conditions of employment after the work permit has been granted, increased sanctions against employers and increased controls on employers. We have heard some speakers raise this point. The investigator shall submit the necessary legislative proposals for the measures proposed, and the mandate shall be presented in September of this year. It is extremely important that those offered employment are covered by the protection provided by other employees, such as Swedish collective agreements and practices in various sectors. Several of the speakers have raised the current situation of those fleeing war and conflict. Here I think that there should be no accusations that there is an emotional argument, because that is quite natural. If we see people running from war and risking their lives, it would be strange if we did not care about it and find it extremely difficult for the people affected. However, this is in no way in contradiction to using the brain and making good suggestions, but it is a combination. You should be able to have compassion with the people who flee war and make concrete proposals. I see absolutely no contradiction there. One should be able to use both the heart and the brain when it comes to people fleeing war and conflict and risking their lives to get away and save their own children and their own family. I think that the discussion in much should be about how we can influence other countries in the best possible way to take greater responsibility, make good proposals in our own country nationally, locally and regionally and provide the conditions for everyone to do their utmost to meet the people fleeing from war and conflict.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-224	Mr President, I would like to Carina Ohlsson mentions emotional arguments. Of course, serious things are happening around here. I am the first to say that I feel for the people who are fleeing war and are having a hard time. That is precisely why I have chosen to engage in order to give them better opportunities to live a decent life. But that does not mean that we can ignore the facts, that is, the financial resources we have. I was going to touch something else. The most basic thing one can expect from a government is that it follows the decisions made. Given the policy that Sweden has been pursuing for a long time, where many people have been welcomed into Sweden, it was gratifying to hear that the government announced that 80 000 asylum seekers would be expelled from Sweden in the coming years. But the fact is that during the previous year the police managed to execute just over 2,600 expulsion decisions. 7 500 asylum seekers went home voluntarily. This is a very small proportion of these 80 000. I think it should now be self-evident for the government to focus on implementing expulsion decisions and putting more resources into it. My question to Carina Ohlsson is how the Government intends to implement these decisions.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-227	Mr President, I would like to It is a misconception that it has been announced that 80 000 will be expelled. The asylum right is, of course, examined individually. I guess it was a mathematical exercise. There were about 163,000 in the previous year, and since about 50 to 60 percent are usually allowed to stay, there may be 80 000 to be expelled. Of course, the facts should not be ignored. After the right of asylum has been tried, of course, we from Sweden will do everything possible to expel those who do not have the right to remain. A great deal of resources will be devoted to this, probably also more resources. What makes it possible to maintain the asylum system is for those who have the right to stay to stay while those who do not have the right to stay to be expelled. But enforcement is not always easy. I agree that there may be difficulties.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-229	Mr President, I would like to If it were to be the case that we were actually trying to uphold the rules we had set ourselves, that would be a good thing. But the fact is that the appropriations for expulsions and returnees have not been increased by the government. You don't spend any more money on this. As I mentioned earlier, very few people leave. Is it not the time for the government to come up with clear proposals to make it less attractive for people to hide in Sweden? It should be quite easy to change the conditions, so that it does not pay to stay here. It is also cruel if people are fooled with good conditions to remain, as they are today, and then have to return in several years' time. Why not just increase funds directly, spend more resources on rejecting people who are not supposed to be here, increase the possibility of detention and, above all, change the conditions so that it does not pay to stay?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-231	Mr President, I would like to As several previous speakers have pointed out, this is not a budget debate. Of course, we will have the debate on the appropriations in the future. Markus Wiechel seems to think that we almost encourage people to hide. I do not share this view. This kind of factual information by Markus Wiechel does not agree with the way I see it. Rather, attention has been paid to this situation and even made it more difficult for those who have not been given the right to stay. So our views are not consistent here.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-233	Mr President, I would like to Carina Ohlsson is not only a spokesperson but also chairman of S-women. Part of the legislation that will soon land on Parliament's table is about very severely restricting the right to family reunification. It is actually legislation that will divide families for years. I have often seen and heard Carina Ohlsson argue that women and children are among the most vulnerable in war and conflict, and so do they. We know that they are the most vulnerable when they are on their way, in Turkey or in refugee camps. We also know that it is also the man in the family who gets across because you don't want the kids to drown. The legislation that is now in place means that families will not be able to reunite, and I wonder how Carina Ohlsson views it as the chairman of S-women. How can she support legislation that divides families in this way?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-237	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to say that I have a desire for something that in all my roles I work most of the things I can do, and that is that we should live in an equal world where there should be equal situations for women and men as well as for adults and children. Unfortunately, the world does not look like that – not when fleeing war and conflict, not in the refugee camps that exist or on the road when fleeing. We know that many women and children are subjected to violence. For example, there are rapes in war as a military act. We also know that terrorists deliberately expose women. Of course we have to work against this. We know this situation, and it is just as Christina Höj Larsen says. I have also argued that we must have a gender perspective and look at the situation of women and children in all these areas when fleeing, in war and conflict and also in migration policy. I think that the issue has been raised in recent times but certainly not fully. When it comes to the proposals that the government has announced, Christina Höj Larsen will follow it. It will be presented later today. It is not quite as good as one might wish for it to be fully equal, and of course we will follow that at all levels. But it is also a question of refugee policy within the EU. It is also about working with UNHCR in a good way so that they too have more of a gender perspective than before.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-241	Mr President, I would like to We do not stand here because we have different desires, but we stand here to try to implement policies. Carina Ohlsson is not only the chairman of S-women, but is also here talking about the migration policy of the Social Democrats. The fact is that it will be legislated that families must not live together. That is what I am asking about: how does Carina Ohlsson feel about this? We also heard earlier Carina Ohlsson's speech about how terrible it is about the smuggling of refugees, and I can really only agree. But there is an alternative to that, and that is to turn the power out of the hands of the refugee smugglers by ensuring that there are legal ways for people to get to Europe. It's the absolute best way. There are no other ways. To legislate on family fragmentation will mean that Carina Ohlsson and the government indirectly give more power to the refugee smugglers, which I think is completely indecent and wrong. It also happens in a situation where we see that fewer and fewer people actually come to Sweden seeking protection. This legislation should be completely unnecessary, and yet you continue to move forward.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-245	Mr President, I would like to I believe that most parties in the Swedish Parliament would support legal ways if there was a proposal that was known to go through. However, we in Sweden alone cannot decide on legal routes to EU countries, to Europe. It would, of course, be very good if we could decide here that legal paths would apply from the end of this debate and vote this afternoon. But that's not what it looks like. This is not the reality, but we have to work for everything we can. If I use the word, it does not mean that we just sit still and wish it to happen. We must constantly work for these proposals, and I am absolutely convinced that Christina Höj Larsen and I agree in this fight, both when it comes to equality and when it comes to fighting for legal ways. The temporary legislation that we will later be debating here is supposed to be temporary legislation. Several have taken up the time it takes from the right to asylum to family reunification. It is already taking a long time, and it is clear that we would have liked to have been more prepared for what happened last autumn. Nevertheless, I am proud that we received so many last autumn. It is not something that we should be ashamed of, but it was really good that we did it. But it is clear that it takes a long time, just as it takes a long time now that we have legislation that allows family ties so that you can get your family here. Of course, we will work all we can to improve and speed up all processes so that this temporary legislation also becomes a temporary law.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-251	Mr President, I would like to Carina Ohlsson mentioned the issue of unity in her speech. I would like to mention, if indeed Carina Ohlsson has missed it, which I do not believe, that the Alliance will present a joint election manifesto in next year's elections – or perhaps not next year. We'll see when it's gonna be. Maybe no one knows. We have done it in three choices in a row: 2006, 2010 and 2014. As Carina Ohlsson does raise it, I would like to ask the question of how it really is with agreement in the government that is leading Sweden today and which is also going to take that responsibility. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has made it clear that today we have extensive reception problems as a result of the high search pressure that has excellent Sweden. Perhaps I did not hear much about that in Carina Ohlsson's speech, which is interesting in itself, but that is the Prime Minister's words. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecast, or calculation options, means that there will be an additional 140 000 people to Sweden this year in addition to the quarter million that has arrived in two years. Stefan Löfven has been very clear that this must not happen, and if this is the case, then you need to put in further measures to dampen the search pressure. At the same time, I heard at Ekot's Saturday interview recently where Stefan Lövven's government colleague Gustav Fridolin also said that this absolutely must not happen. However, he did not mean that more than 140 000 will come, but what he meant was that there should absolutely not be any further measures to suppress the search pressure. The most fascinating thing is that both say they speak for the whole government. I would be very grateful if Carina Ohlsson could tell me which of these two ministers we will listen to.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-256	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance parties are welcome to come up with a joint election manifesto when that time comes. Now I am reviewing the migration debate, and here today I could not see such a consensus. As I understood it and thought I heard, there was quite a distance between the proposal of the Center Party and that of the Moderates. I don't really understand what Johan Forssell calls a break really means, but I could see that it was about open borders and receiving everyone who comes compared to a refugee break. At least I thought that was a big difference. I do not know whether to review different party leaders or spokesmen, but I am starting from what we are debating here and also the main track in what the Migration Board calls scenarios and not forecasts, and that is very true as Johan Forssell said between 70 000 and 140 000 people. The main scenario is 100,000. That is what we have to put forward proposals and work from the outside. So that is what we are dealing with when we are working on these issues. Now Johan Forssell has the opportunity to also ask Maria Ferm, who will speak after me, but I see that we agree on this issue. There is no doubt about that, at least here in Parliament.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-259	Mr President, I would like to I belong to the group of politicians – perhaps we all do so to different degrees – who believe that it is very important to be clear and long-term. As I mentioned in my speech, I would say that the problem is that migration policy in Sweden has been a step behind in the past year. It has been based on how we want it to be rather than how it can be. Last year, the Moderates highlighted the importance of temporary residence permits. We highlighted the importance of supply requirements. We highlighted the importance of expulsions in order to strengthen the difference between a yes and a no in the asylum process. On every such occasion we received criticism from the Social Democrats. With regard to the issue that was just raised, i.e. rejections, the current Minister for Migration, before the 2014 elections, made it clear that it was not a priority. However, you should not dwell on such things too much. Now we have the situation we have, and I think it is important not to repeat the old mistakes. Now the Finnish Immigration Service says that the highest calculation option for this year is 140 000 people. Then the question is how the government, which actually rules Sweden today and should take responsibility, will relate to this. If you can't take that responsibility, you shouldn't be in government. When I listen to the Prime Minister and the spokesperson of the Green Party, there are two different lines here. Since the government itself is unable to sort this out, migration policy spokespersons may be able to do so. What exactly is the government's response? Is it prepared to take further action if necessary to dampen the search pressure to Sweden, or is it not? It's a pretty simple question-- yes or no. If you are in a government position, I think you actually have a responsibility to be able to answer such questions.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-263	Mr President, I would like to We definitely take that responsibility. It is possible that both me and Johan Forssell could have been more prepared for the situation that arose last autumn, even if Johan Forssell was then not responsible for these issues. Nevertheless, he belonged to a party that has been the bearer of government. We can certainly wish that we had been more prepared for it, but no one was able to make those forecasts at the time. That is why we must have proposals that go in a more sustainable way. There have been discussions with the alliance parties, where Johan Forssell has also been involved. There have been agreements, which are now being followed up with both legislative proposals and investigations. There will be more proposals that we will be debating in this House. Some alliance parties think the proposals are too strict and, as I understand it, Johan Forssell would like to have even more demands. I hear that the Moderates want a break and with it probably do not accept any asylum seekers at all. So there are very different opinions there too. However, we continue to have a dialogue with parties who wish to have it, and we have had it all the time when we have put forward proposals. So there is no doubt about it. We certainly take responsibility for the current situation. We also have constant discussions with the Migration Agency so that we will follow the forecasts and become even better at being in reality and seeing what will happen in the future. Don't doubt our responsibility! We take responsibility, and we will do so both here in Parliament and in the government.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-266	Mr President, I would like to Not since World War II have so many people been on the run in the world. Wars and conflicts in the vicinity of Europe mean that many also make their way to Europe. More difficult situations in neighbouring countries, closed borders with Syria and deportations back are spreading hopelessness. Nevertheless, many European countries want to invest huge resources in stopping people from reaching Europe, but as long as people are forced to flee, alternative routes will be created. When the agreement between the EU and Turkey makes it difficult for people to escape that route, they will only be forced to take even more dangerous and expensive routes. Here it is important that Sweden push for joint responsibility in the EU that safeguards the right to asylum. In the negotiations for the agreement with Turkey, Sweden was just pushing that we should have wordings on respect for international law and the right to individual examination, but that remains worrying. Sweden is also pushing in the EU to create more legal ways to apply for asylum in the EU. Sweden is growing. Last year, an unusual number of people fled to Sweden. The war in Syria is in its sixth year, and people's driving forces to escape are only getting stronger. It is important that the reception capacity is increased and that the establishment is improved, so that we adapt our systems to function well both in times when there will be many and in times when it will get. All Swedish municipalities will be helped with the reception so that the establishment is accelerated. Previous efforts are needed to enable newcomers to learn the language more quickly and to start validation and training. Housing construction must be stepped up and civil society must be given a clearer role in the establishment process. Like most countries in Europe, we have an ageing population. A forecast for the coming years shows that the number of retirements exceeds the number of incoming young people. The challenge for most European countries is to bring in more people of working age. Taking advantage of newcomers' experiences and skills and at the same time creating pathways into the labour market is one of the great opportunities of our time. We want to allow more people to contribute to a community building where Sweden's economy continues to grow. More people who come here on the run should be able to learn Swedish from day one and work from day one. The earlier we make it easier for people to learn Swedish and get their qualifications and grades validated, and the earlier we give people the opportunity to create industry contacts within their professions and establish private contacts and networks, the earlier people come to work or start businesses. Historically, Sweden has managed to grow well. Two decades after the Balkan war, we see that those who then sought refuge in Sweden and made it their new home country have established themselves to the extent that there are more of them than of the natives who read further at the university. Sweden grew and created opportunities from a challenge. The role of politics is to ensure that people can quickly establish themselves in the labour market and the housing market and in society as a whole. This is precisely why the government has introduced skills mapping in the housing facilities and opened up the possibility of starting to learn Swedish earlier in the asylum process. The Green Party also wants to see proposals for digital sfi, i.e. the possibility of studying Swedish on your mobile phone or computer, so that everyone can learn the language themselves from day one – or even earlier. We want more asylum seekers who can work as well. Today, there are many bureaucratic obstacles that make it difficult for asylum seekers to work and force them into involuntary inaction throughout the long asylum process. This is why the Green Party wants to review the regulations, and we welcome the fact that Swedish industry has identified the need for such changes. In the past, permanent residence permits have guaranteed a long-term establishment process where one has had the opportunity to supplement what is missing in one's education in order to be able to work in his profession in Sve Rige or at all be employed on the Swedish labour market. Over the last ten years, the Green Party has had a clear strategy in migration policy. In any given situation, we have, from what is politically possible, negotiated hard for the rights of particularly vulnerable groups. Sometimes it is politically possible to bring about improvements, and sometimes it is a question of slowing down or blocking deterioration. The Government's policy includes important and major investments in better establishment, a good reception and more money for the municipalities and county councils that have taken the most responsibility for receiving. The proposal for a temporary law on migration announced last autumn by the government is far more far-reaching than the Green Party would have wished. However, when the two main opposition parties demand even more restrictive policies, the proposal is politically feasible at the moment. With the temporary residence permits now being introduced for a limited period of time, as Mr Saco has pointed out, there is a risk that highly skilled people will take up jobs for which they are overqualified to obtain a permanent residence permit. It gives them less chance of working in the long term in the professions to which they are trained, it deprives society of the skilled labour force that they would otherwise provide and it pushes people with lower education away from the chances of working with something that they could do. This is why it is important to increase reception capacity and improve establishment. So we can get social support to speed up the return to a more humane migration policy. Sweden is growing, and what unites us in Sweden is the building of our common future rather than a common history, ethnicity or religion. We need to continue along the path of creating pathways into the labour market for more people. The government's fast track work for those who have previously worked as a chef, teacher, nurse or pharmacist is a clear example of how we can facilitate by creating contact spaces in the workplace that strengthen the individual and cover the needs of employers where there is a shortage of labour. There is a great danger when countries stop believing in their own society's ability to grow or develop. History has shown that openness to the outside world is something that has benefited Sweden and that societies that join the outside world stagnate in their development. Successful societies are open, mixed societies. Sweden needs to remain open and create opportunities for those who come here to contribute and be part of a Sweden that continues to grow. To conclude, I would like to say that, after all, I am hopeful about the future. The Swedish labour market is doing very well, as is the Swedish economy. The fact that many people come here in a short time is a challenge, but it is also an opportunity. They can give us those extra hands in the care that we so badly need, be involved in building houses and railways to an extent we have hardly seen in modern times, push the technological advances and research even further forward and make Sweden an even better country for more people. I support the proposals contained in the reports.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-283	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to ask Maria Ferm the questions I put to Carina Ohlsson because they both represent government parties but have a rather different view of migration policy. It is about the announced expulsions of asylum seekers. Some environmentalists are talking about more people being able to come here and talk about it warmly. At the same time, the government has introduced several Swedish democratic proposals on ID controls and border controls.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-286	Mr President, I would like to Maybe it was Markus who asked the questions about 80,000. Mrs Carina replied correctly that it is an estimate of how many will leave the country if they are refused their asylum applications. We have an individual assessment, which means that you should have a legal review. If you have your asylum application granted, you have the right to stay; otherwise you should leave the country. It is clear that it is important that there are opportunities for this to work effectively and legally. This government and previous governments have for a long time been giving priority to this work, i.e. how to improve work on a more effective system of expulsion. For example, it has shortened the processing times or the time it takes for different authorities to transfer cases between each other. Of course, it is important that this is done in the most effective way possible. Nor is it any wonder that there are more resources for it if there are a greater number of people. It's just being counted up.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-290	Mr President, I would like to Now this is not a budget debate, as we have noted several times. However, if we now want to increase the number of expulsions or implement the decisions that have been taken, we must also be able to afford them, and the government has not announced increased resources in this area. It is also the case, as we have all seen in committee, that the number of proposals to the Social Security Committee on this matter is extremely inadequate. There are, like, no government proposals to improve deportation opportunities or, for that matter, to bring more people back on their own. I think this is quite important to think about, given that it costs our society a lot if there are a lot of people who are here. Moreover, it causes misery for those who may be rooting here and then in a few years' time have to depart. Now I do not think that it is the Green Party's priority area that people should be rejected. After all, however, you are in the government, and you have been forced to fail the electoral promises before. The statement in the aid budget is one example. What will the Green Party do, specifically, to increase the appropriations for expulsions if necessary? Is it possible to choose to give priority to this area in the future, given the costs that ultimately affect people in other countries? The world does not end at Sweden's borders.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-295	Mr President, I would like to Now, as I said, this is not a budget debate, Markus Wiechel, as many have reminded you earlier today. The budget debate will be taken in special order, and these issues will certainly be discussed. But it is nothing that I want to anticipate. On the other hand, I note that much of what is seen as an obstacle to the execution of expulsions is not about budgetary issues. It's not like we need more money for the police to find people or anything. It is often a matter of completely different things, for example, that the home countries refuse to accept or that it is too dangerous to reject people, that it simply cannot be done. Many such things do not have many political proposals to remedy, but they are a consequence of our living in a difficult and precarious world. There are other proposals, such as better administration, which are also not costly but only effective. I know that the Migration Agency has made proposals to take better care of the entire process in order to make it more effective and instead request police assistance. So there are a lot of different ways to work with this, but it can be said that many of the reasons why people cannot simply be rejected are outside the control of the state of Sweden and more is about the state of the world being difficult and serious.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-299	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Maria Ferm a few questions about the EU-Turkey agreement. There was a recent report from Amnesty pointing to very serious violations of human rights, such as deportations to Syria. Now we also hear from the UNHCR that it is likely that the first day of deportation from Greece to Turkey missed, forgot, to deal with 13 people's asylum applications. As I mentioned in my speech, these are two countries – we were even in Greece together a few years ago – where we know that you do not have the capacity, capacity or any system to deal with asylum applications. Greece should now suddenly be able to do so together with Turkey, which is certainly no one to hold in hand with regard to human rights. I wonder, of course, what Maria Ferm and the Green Party intend to do when it comes to trying to withdraw this agreement. It is quite clear that this is contrary to all the fundamental principles of the right to asylum.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-304	Mr President, I would like to I, too, am very concerned about this agreement. I think it was good, what Sweden did – to try to push for the wording about individual rights and the right to individual redress. This means that you need to follow up on the reality of the situation, and that you can correct any shortcomings. On the whole, however, this is a way for the EU to try to circumvent the right of asylum. I am very concerned about what will happen with the right of asylum as a principle. That is why it was very interesting and welcome that we had a meeting yesterday with the Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi, where he raised precisely the importance of respecting the right of asylum. That was also the very reason why I proposed on Sunday that Sweden should take the initiative for a UN conference to safeguard the right to asylum. It is a question of the principle of the right to asylum. This is just one example of this. There, Sweden's role must be to give everyone the same right and push for the right to asylum. That is what Stefan Löfven did in the negotiations. That is what he mentioned in his speech in Strasbourg. This is the role that Sweden must play at a time when other countries are failing.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-308	Mr President, I would like to The problem with wording in the EU is that they are often not what they are said to be. A hotspot is a concrete floor where people don't get food. A demention center is a prison where people are abused. This is how the EU language works. We need to be much tougher in calling reality what it is. When you come up with very good and important formulations, as the Green Party does, they will unfortunately be treated in exactly the same way in the EU system. In principle, I have nothing against UN discussions on how to protect the right of asylum. I'm in favour of that. Nevertheless, I agree with my party leader that when a party involved in pushing through proposals both nationally and at European level that restrict the right to asylum, we must have discussions on why it is restricted, it is easy to use words as hypocrisy. I have no objection in principle to the discussion, but the answer at that conference should then be that it is precisely the proposals that are currently coming up in competition between the European countries that restrict the right of asylum. The same applies to EU agreements with Turkey. The Green Party will also be involved in this.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-311	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Christina Höja Larsen, because you still think this would be a good suggestion, even if you are negative to other parts and want a different policy. I can also see that there are many aspects to these issues. I welcome your bringing it forward in this way. The agreement with Turkey really needs to be followed up. When I visited Samos a few months ago, there was a strange situation with uncertain waiting for everyone. You were waiting for something to happen, but no one really knew what. The hotspots that were there have now been converted into prisons, more or less, for those to be sent back. It is very worrying about children who are being held in prison. The situation in Turkey is also worrying. It is also in this situation that we need to do what we can to try to safeguard this principle. We know that in many countries there is great resistance. The agreement could also have been concluded by Greece because of the fact that Greece recognises Turkey as a safe country. We have to try to do what we can in these contexts so that a world that looks dark will be a little less bad. Moving on with that is the way forward right now.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-315	Mr President, I would like to I'll be very brief. Shortly after the government announced the legislative changes on 24 November, both Maria Ferm and Gustav Fridolin went out and said that the new laws would be removed as soon as possible – not implemented on light for three years but removed as soon as possible. This has then been repeated several times. My question is therefore: What needs to happen if these legislative changes are to be removed or not presented here in Parliament at all?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-317	Mr President, I would like to I will first inform you that I have not gone out and said anything like that after 24 November, because I was on parental leave throughout the autumn. So I was simply at home with my child at the time. However, I came back on 1 January, and after that we in the party have been clear that we want to speed up the return to a more humane migration policy by increasing reception capacity and improving establishment. We believe that this is the way forward to get social support to remove all or part of the law prematurely. There is also a control post after two years, where the need for the law should continue to be reviewed. Our general attitude is that we need to adapt the systems so that they work well both in times when there will be many and when there will be few. Last autumn we saw that our systems were not adapted to that many people in a short time, and we saw shortcomings in parts of welfare, in social services and so on. Then this is what we need to fix in order to get the legislation we want as quickly as possible. There is a reason why the legislation is temporary. It is precisely about the fact that this was not something that the government wanted to do, but something that was done because the systems looked like they did.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-321	Mr President, I would like to My question remains. If you are going to have a control post after two years, try to remove the laws as soon as possible and change the systems, then what is to be achieved in order for the laws to be removed? The Green Party is in the government. I assume that there are some thoughts about what you want to achieve. Are the processing times to be shortened? Are we waiting for the Swedish Civil Protection Agency to provide new information about something? Are there places in asylum accommodations that need to be found? What is specifically to be achieved? It is clear that there must be something clearer than just a general focus on somewhere improving the systems.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-323	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely to increase the capacity of reception and improve the establishment of the key issues. Then there is also much of what Johanna Jönsson is talking about. In order to get social support to return to a more humane migration policy, we need to have functioning systems – systems that mean that we are prepared for different situations, i.e. systems that are adapted to a changed reality. It includes such things as housing and processing times, but it is not possible to point out anything specific which in itself means that all or part of the law would be repealed prematurely. The control post is available to assess the need at that time.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-325	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 40 in the SfU14. We have had this debate every year since the Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag. Reservation 40 is about expelling criminal aliens. Every year, the Swedish Democrats have been exercising to change the rules for the expulsion of criminal foreigners, and every year all the other parties have chosen to say no to the changes. What, then, are the changes? Yes, it is about making it easier and compulsory to examine the issue of expulsion and making expulsion the main rule for criminal foreigners. Every year, everyone has said no. Now almost all the alliance politicians have left the room, and perhaps that is a good thing, because they will not like to hear this. But in February, the Moderates went out and said they wanted to make it mandatory to examine the issue of expulsion. It's their new play. It is the first movement in the motion that the Swedish Democrats have put every year for five years! When you search for expulsions on Parliament's website, you can find absolutely nothing – no suggestions. The only thing I find is a written question by Johan Forssell, who has left the Chamber, and an interpellation by Mr Anti Avsan about the same thing, that is, increasing the expulsions of those who commit crimes, but no proposals. These are fine headlines in the media – no suggestions. What is the proposal about? Well, like I said, it'll be easier. Today in Sweden it is so amazing that we keep rapists, murderers and people who have abused. And in the long term, we reward them with citizenship. That's the order of the day. Let me give you some examples. It was an asylum seeker who came to Sweden in 2005. He assaulted, threatened and raped a woman in Boden a year after he was granted a residence permit. The woman then experienced sleeping difficulties and depression problems. For this rape, this foreigner had no expulsion. He only got three years in prison. Then what happened? Well, he came out and got your rules to stay in Sweden, and so he raped again. Now he's found and back in court. Allow me to guess that with your rules he will be allowed to stay one more time. There was a recent case in Ludvika. I even think it was this year or maybe last year. An Eritrean citizen was sentenced for aggravated rape to prison for five years. Among other things, the woman who was raped was beaten to the head with a saucepan. With your rules, he wasn't expelled. It's amazing, isn't it? A third example is an Iraqi citizen who was convicted of, again, gross rape. Since he had lived in Sweden for five years, it took extraordinary reasons, as you have in your rules. The Court held that the crime was a very serious violation of the integrity of the victim and that there were serious reasons for it. The man had no strong connection with Sweden – it is one of the many exceptions that you defend. Furthermore, Iraq did not constitute an enforcement barrier to expulsion. Do you think he was expelled? Nope, even in that case, it didn't happen. Instead, the court figured out that he would be allowed to stay. Why? Yes, it would be inhumane to expel him. Why would it be inhumane to expel him? Well, he didn't know his relatives in Iraq well enough. Hear and marvel! He had to stay because he wasn't best friend with his uncle or whoever it was in Iraq. That's why this rapist will be allowed to stay in Sweden, with your rules. Are you proud of that? I have put forward these proposals five years in a row, four years under the alliance government and one year under this government. Nothing's happened. The Alliance government even defended the rules, these strange and totally illogical rules. That's how it's been years and years in. Yet the Moderates go out and say, "Let's see to it that more are expelled." It is not a single concrete proposal. It's just chatter. These are just three examples from this list. I could stand here and talk forever. I produced some recent statistics on what it looks like when it comes to the expulsion of criminal foreigners. In 2011, the share of foreigners in newly admitted Swedish institutions was 29 per cent. Almost a third were therefore not Swedish citizens. This share had gone up to a total of 41 per cent in 2015. Almost every other person admitted to prison in 2015 was therefore not a Swedish citizen. That's an extremely high percentage. In addition, it has grown significantly since 2011. At the same time, we see, with your rules, that the proportion that gets the sentence associated with expulsion has decreased. In 2011, 22 per cent were expelled in connection with the judgment. This was the case in 2015 for 17 per cent of those admitted to prison. Thus, Sweden retains 83% of all those who have received such a serious punishment that they end up in prison. 83% of them you choose to keep. Are you proud of that? If you break down the numbers, it becomes even more interesting. Then we see that we retain 92% of those who commit violent crimes. So it is an even higher proportion that is retained in this country. Only 8 percent of those who committed violent crimes were sentenced to expulsion. Are you proud of that? We keep 78% of those who committed sex crimes. Even there, it has decreased. It was 38 per cent who were expelled in 2011. It has fallen to 22% in 2015. Do you think that this is a positive development for the other seven parties? As I said, the trend is downward. In 2011, 12 per cent of those who committed violent crimes and who were admitted to prison were expelled. Last year it was 8%. Sweden thus retains sex offenders, violent offenders and other categories to a very high extent and to an increasing extent. Now we have an epidemic of sexual assaults on swimming homes, on our concerts and on streets and squares. And there is not a single initiative taken by any other party. I asked Stefan Löfven about this. He was happy. I asked Morgan Johansson about this. He was happy. The Alliance government was satisfied for four years. Nothing has yet been done to change this. You're happy with this. I think it is deeply shameful, because there are a great many victims out there today who find out that those who rape them, those who abuse them or those who murder their loved ones are welcomed to stay in this country. It's your fault. It is the other seven parties that have the full responsibility. You should be ashamed of yourself. Mr President, I would like to For this reason, I think it is important to get up in the debate, even if it is not my committee, and to ask for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 40 in SfU14. Unfortunately, I have no hope that any party other than the Swedish Democrats will vote in favour of it.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-344	Mr President, I would like to My colleague, Emma Carlsson Löfdahl, has already well presented several of the Liberals' positions. Here I will particularly highlight SfU14 and our reservation 27, to which I also call for approval. Sara, Ahmad, Ensar, Diana, Maria, Nadine, Maribel and Marisol– I could stand here and recite names of children for quite some time. I'll tell you a little bit more about some of them. I would like to tell you, for example, about Sara and her family who were expelled to Palestine 18 days before the limitation period expired for a new trial. During the deportation, the family split up because the father didn't have a passport. Sara was then 16 years old. She had lived in Sweden since she was nine years old. I don't know if you remember middle and high school alone. It's a long period of a child's life. Sara lived in Sweden for so long. I would also like to tell you about Ensar who was expelled to Kosovo after living his whole life in Sweden. Sara and Ensar are out of Sweden now. That they had lived in Sweden for so long was not enough to allow them to stay, because their parents did not have sufficient protection reasons. There is still, for example, Maria, four years old and born in Sweden, who has an expulsion decision. Nadine is nine years old, is also born in Sweden and also has an expulsion decision. Marisol attends primary school in the same class as the children she has grown up with and with whom she has attended preschool. She has a little sister named Maribel. Both girls were born in Sweden. The girls' parents came to Sweden almost ten years ago. My dad's from Lebanon, and my mom's from Syria. Marisol knows nothing but that she would be Swedish, but in practice she is paperless. And since the parents are not considered to have protection reasons, the family must not stay in Sweden. The problem is that one does not take into account where children are planted, but instead sees where the parents have their roots. How can this be compatible with the Convention on the Rights of the Child? The answer is it's not. In recent times, it has rightly been a great focus on people on the run. The discussions in politics are about what can be done, what Sweden can do, what the EU can do and how to act when so many people now go to other countries for asylum. Proposals are made and action is taken. As a Liberal, I want to make it clear that we intend to safeguard the six-party agreement that has been reached. It is an agreement in which we agreed on a temporary amendment of the law, in which quota refugees, unaccompanied minors and families with children continue as a general rule to have a permanent residence permit. It is an agreement that highlighted the issue of legal routes to the EU and stated that Sweden should receive 5 000 quota refugees per year instead of as before 1 900. These were important demands on the part of the Liberals, and this is so continuing. With regard to the proposals now made by the government, we do not agree. Families with children should not be divided. Mr President, I would like to Another discussion we need to have is how the asylum process works, especially when children are involved. As many as half of all expulsion cases proved to have child-specific reasons, but instead of taking this into account, the assessments were made on the basis of the parents' stories and the general situation in the country from which they fled. According to law, the best interests of the child are to guide decisions on matters concerning children. Nevertheless, assessments of the child's own protection needs are often lacking when the judgment comes from the Migration Agency or the Migration Court. Children can have their own asylum reasons, which are very different from those of their parents. Children can become child soldiers, be married, risk genital mutilation, be kidnapped or simply be subjected to the discrimination it entails not being allowed to go to school because of their gender. Too little emphasis is placed on the children's own networks in Sweden, such as preschool and school. The long process allows many children to take root, especially those who have come as very small or were born in Sweden. Little or no account is taken of this, despite the change in the Aliens Act two years ago, which changed the most distressing circumstances into particularly distressing circumstances. Even in the past, asylum seekers could obtain a residence permit even if they did not need protection from persecution, but it was difficult and only applied in very serious cases. The preparatory work specifically addresses the connection to Sweden. The idea with the new wording was to simplify for children who have lived in Sweden for a long time, children such as Marisol, Sara, Ensar, Nadine and Maria. The Finnish Immigration Service's annual report for 2015 shows that the Finnish Immigration Service investigates and assesses children's own reasons for asylum. through an oral conversation with the child. For each application, it is assessed whether it is appropriate to hear each individual child or not. This is what the committee's response to the motion on children's own asylum grounds says. Today, unaccompanied refugee children have the right to a good man and a legal representative. Children who bring their families do not have access to this in the same way, but share representatives with the rest of the family. The child has the right to be heard and to receive support to understand the legal process. For the most part, the child is also heard during the asylum process in one way or another. Unfortunately, however, very little emphasis is placed on their rights when decisions are to be made. Instead, it is based on the parents' reasons for asylum. The right of all children to be heard and taken seriously is one of the fundamental values of the Convention. Article 12, which states the right to be heard, is one of the four fundamental principles of the Convention. The others are the right to non-discrimination, the right to life and development and the best interests of the child. This means that Article 12 establishes a right in itself and must also be taken into account in the interpretation and implementation of all other rights. The children's perspective in the Aliens Act needs to be strengthened with the best interests of the child as the main principle, because decisions often lack assessments for child protection reasons. The child rights perspective therefore needs to be strengthened in the asylum process by ensuring that children's own asylum reasons are always investigated and accounted for. Sweden has ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and now the report has come on how to become law. Investigating children's own asylum reasons and strengthening the child perspective of the Aliens Act so that it becomes the main principle is fully in line with it, unlike many of the proposals now made by the Government which, moreover, run counter to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Only when the children's voice really counts can we start talking about children's perspectives or, better yet, children's perspectives, not children as an appendage to their parents. Then it can never be right to expel a nine-year-old who has lived his whole life in Sweden. Then it can never be right to divide a family. Mr President, I would like to There has been talk here today about groups, about quantities, about volumes. We must and we must have general laws that apply to everyone, but we must also always remember that it is about individuals. For Sara, Ahmad, Ensar, Diana, Maria, Nadine, Maribel and Marisol it is personal.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-368	Mr President, I would like to The liberals were the only ones I could take a line on, and that's why I do. I'm curious about the Liberals' attitude towards the expulsion of criminal aliens. I read some examples, and I wonder what the Liberals' attitude is. Do you think that rapists who have been convicted of aggravated rape to five years in Swedish prison should be allowed to stay in the country and not be expelled? Do you think that an Iraqi citizen should be allowed to stay in the country because it does not know its relatives in Iraq well enough? Do you think it should be done as it does in Sweden today? Do you think we should keep 83 percent of criminal foreigners who have been sent to prison? Do you think we should keep 92% of the criminal foreigners who have committed violent crimes? Do you think we should keep 78% of those who have committed sexual crimes in the country? Do you think so, yes or no? If you do not think so, why do you not put forward proposals to change it?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-372	Mr President, I would like to Liberals' attitude is that it should be a legally secure process where you start from the individual. When the Swedish Democrats talk about percentages, we look at each individual case, and then it is not possible to say: The group that has done this should be expelled. It will be a very strange way of looking at man and the whole process of justice. We don't make a difference like that.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-374	Mr President, I would like to Nobody has said that it should not be a legal process, but the process does not even come up in the courts today for several reasons, or above all for one reason. For example, if the prosecutor chooses not to demand expulsion, the matter will not be brought before the court at all. Then there will be no process at all when it comes to expulsion. This is not about legal certainty. What the Liberals must understand here is that the examples I mentioned are not suspects but condemned people. There are two different processes: (1) whether or not you are convicted of the crime and (2) whether it is combined with expulsion or not. It is not at all the issue of legal certainty that we are discussing today. Then you have completely misunderstood how a court case goes to Christina Örnebjär. They're already convicted of the crime. It's already petted and ready, and the verdict is there. They're doomed. They're criminals. In this case, when they are already convicted, according to the usual legal principles that we have in Sweden and according to the court system and the judiciary we have, it is no longer a matter of legal certainty but of whether or not they should be expelled and whether or not the matter should be examined. Liberals don't think you should. They're happy. They want to keep rapists and murderers in the country. Don't try to babble off this issue now by talking about some kind of legal certainty! That's another question. They've already been convicted. It's as simple as that. The question remains: Should a person who has been convicted according to standard legal principles in Sweden be allowed to stay in the country when a person has raped someone grossly, hit her in the head with a pot and got five years in Swedish prison? Should such people in principle be allowed to stay in Sweden, yes or no?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-380	Mr President, I would like to It is always as interesting to see how to turn in the debate. Before there were several here, I know, who were told by the Swedish Democrats that it was a problem to have emotional arguments. I don't really know what they'd say here. Once again, the Swedish Democrats are making a difference between people and people. What you want is for those who were not born in Sweden to be expelled because they have committed certain crimes. But it still becomes a very strange way of looking at the legal system. I persist in the question of legal certainty, because there is also legal certainty as regards the whole asylum process, the whole of citizenship and why they are here. Kent Ekeroth believes that if you have committed certain crimes and you have received a Swedish citizenship, then it should be able to be withdrawn. Why is it only for those who have not been born in Sweden? With the views of the Swedish democrats, we would have two parallel legal systems. I'm not up for that.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-384	Mr President, I would like to There's something I need to make right. During my speech, I happened to be in favour of an SD reservation, which, of course, would never happen to me. I would therefore like to say that I am in favour of reservations 5 and 9 in SfU15, both of which are C and V reservations, and reservations 10 and 18 in SfU14. I happened to be in favour of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 8 in SfU15, but I would therefore like a reservation 9 there.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-386	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the SoU report10. The report deals with the Government's proposal Measures to increase public health in the tobacco sector – the implementation of the EU Tobacco Products Directive. In addition, three demands for exercise are being discussed that have been received in connection with the bill and a request for exercise that has been received during the general period of exercise. On 3 April 2014, the European Parliament adopted a new Tobacco Products Directive, to be implemented by 20 May of this year in order to achieve EU harmonisation in order to prevent health problems related to tobacco consumption in the EU with a focus on young people. The implementation of the Tobacco Directive proposes certain amendments to the Tobacco Act. The new legislative proposals include the prohibition of cigarettes and hand-rolling tobacco with characteristic flavours, the increased reporting obligations for manufacturers and importers of tobacco products, the inclusion of combined health warnings in text and image representing 65% of front and rear packaging for cigarettes, roll-your-own tobacco and water pipe tobacco, and the exclusion of the labelling of packaging for tobacco products from information on nicotine, tar or carbon monoxide or the likeness of a food or cosmetic product. However, the proposal to prohibit references to flavours, fragrances or additives is not proposed to cover snus. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates want to contribute to the timely adoption and implementation of the Tobacco Products Directive, not least in view of the fact that tobacco smoking is probably the single biggest public health problem that can be actively prevented. Tobacco smoking kills about 12 000 people in Sweden every year. In an international perspective, more than 5 million people a year die of tobacco smoking. In the scientific journal T he Lancet, an analysis is published of 88 completed studies with nearly 6 million participants. Among other things, the studies show that smokers have a 37 percent higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. People exposed to passive smoking are 22 percent more likely to suffer from type 2 diabetes. The more a person smokes, the higher the risk. In addition, the increase in tobacco consumption is estimated to cost Sweden a total of at least SEK 30 billion per year in the form of health care costs, production losses and sick leave. The trend is that the proportion of daily smokers is steadily decreasing over time. This also applies to younger people. This is a clear development. However, that is not enough. More measures need to be taken to prevent the death of 12 000 people each year as a result of tobacco smoking. At the same time, it rests on the individual's own responsibility as a free individual for a decision to smoke. We endorse the work on tobacco smoking and support the measures that now need to be decided to implement the directive. At the same time, we want to clearly defend Swedish authority over the regulation of snus, in accordance with the Swedish exception when we became members of the European Union. We believe that the government proposal is unclear regarding the future management and regulation of snuff. The government is sending double signals regarding the snus regarding both the prohibition to refer to flavour, fragrance and additives, and the authority responsible for supervision in the future. The production of snus is based on the requirements of the Food Act. The supervisory responsibility should therefore remain under the authority of the Finnish Food Authority, in accordance with the current system. The proposal for a ban on referring to flavours, fragrances or additives does not apply to snus. At the same time, however, the Government states that the issue of national regulation of snus and chewing tobacco, including the issue of content regulation of snus, is under review. It should be added that the study's interim report More common tobacco rules – the implementation of the Tobacco Products Directive proposed that snus be subject to the prohibition in Article 13(1)(c) of the Directive against referring specifically to taste, fragrance or additives on packaging of tobacco products or on the tobacco product itself. It is unfortunate that the government is consciously or unconsciously unclear about its intentions regarding the future regulation and supervision of snuff. On the one hand, the government mentions Sweden's exemption to regulate snuff. On the other hand, the government reserves the right to come back with renewed positions later on issues that can already be decided on the content of the Tobacco Products Directive on issues related to snuff regulation. In addition, the government is unclear as to what should apply to packaging, supervision and compliance with rules and provisions regarding snus. It is clear that Sweden, like all other Member States, is expected to implement the Tobacco Products Directive on time. Member States that do not do this are in danger of being fined. The bourgeois government, between 1991 and 1994, endeavoured, in connection with the accession negotiations with the European Union, to obtain an exemption for sales of snuff in Sweden. It is now up to the government to ensure that the Swedish authority over the regulation and handling of snus will continue to apply. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the Social Democrats whether they have continued to defend Swedish jurisdiction regarding the regulation of snuff and whether they believe that the implementation of the Tobacco Directive does not affect the regulation of snuff at all. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I am in favour of our reservation.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-400	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are going to discuss the government proposal on measures to increase public health in the tobacco sector and the implementation of the EU Tobacco Products Directive. We welcome the directive, as it aims, among other things, to make tobacco products and consumption less attractive. It is also positive that the main target group for the measures proposed in the Directive is young people. We verige democrats want us to have a restrictive policy on the use of tobacco. We are particularly concerned about our young people, so that they will neither start nor get stuck in tobacco use. The proposal proposes a ban on cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco with a characteristic taste and a ban on certain additives in tobacco products. It is also proposed that manufacturers and importers of tobacco products should be subject to increased reporting obligations, which means that they should report data on additives in cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco and various studies and studies on tobacco products. In addition, it is proposed to require combined health warnings equivalent to 65% of the front and back of unit packets for cigarettes, roll-your-own tobacco and water pipe tobacco. We believe that these may be appropriate measures which, separately and together, may be important in order to reduce the use of tobacco, in order to promote public health. Tobacco use also involves problems and costs for both the individual and society. We are not primarily in favour of these measures because of some form of morality or touch stick towards people who use tobacco. We are not a prohibition party that condemns the actions of individuals. On the other hand, it is important to send political signals about what society wants to prosecute and regulate from a public health perspective. As far as smoking is concerned, there is another aspect that is incredibly important to us. It is that no one should be involuntarily exposed to someone else's smoking. We are opposed to the use of tobacco in general, but precisely because we want to protect those who do not use tobacco from exposure, we think it is very important to limit exposure to smoking. The positive thing about snus, compared with cigarettes, is that third parties are not affected. This means that people in the vicinity of a snusare are not exposed to the same health risks as they do if exposed to passive smoking. Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned earlier, it is positive that it is emphasised that the directive's main target group identified is young people. We verige democrats have wanted to see a strong fight against tobacco use among young people, since it is usually in young years that tobacco use begins. We support the Moderate motion 3324 by Cecilia Widegren and others, in which the motion 1 proposes an announcement that the government should protect the Swedish authority over the regulation of snuff. We also support request 2 that it should continue to be permitted to refer to taste, fragrance or additives in snuff. We also support request 3 for the Swedish Food Safety Agency to be the regulatory authority. We Swedish democrats want the EU to interfere in as little as possible, especially on health issues that we consider to be a national matter to be dealt with in each country on the basis of their individual circumstances. Mr President, I would like to However, we do not feel that the government is sufficiently clear and that this is a national issue. This lack of clarity leads to unnecessary uncertainty as to whether the government is willing to stand up to safeguard Swedish self-determination. It is worrying to leave open to come back with a renewed position later on, for example, whether it should be permitted to refer to taste, fragrance or any additives for snus or whether the snus should also be regulated in that respect, just as cigarettes are now to be regulated according to the rules of the directive.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-411	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Swedish Cancer Society presents its cancer fund report for the previous year. It's both terrifying reading and a little cheerful reading. We see that the number of cancer cases will increase in the future, which is serious and worrying. However, it is also pleasing to read in such a way as to note what the World Health Organisation, WHO, has stated, that at least one third of cancer cases can be prevented. The single most important measure that can be taken to prevent cancer is to reduce smoking. That is why it is an important report from the Committee on Social Affairs that we are going to take a decision on in Parliament today. In Sweden, 10% of the population still smokes. Both in terms of smoking and in terms of prevention, there is a great responsibility on our part as individuals. I'm the one who needs to make the decision not to smoke. I'm the one who needs to protect myself when I'm in the sun. It is I who must make sure that I eat in such a way that my body is well. But I do not bear the full responsibility myself, but we also have a common responsibility in the public sphere to support and ensure that people have the right basis for making the right and wise decisions. It is therefore important that we ensure that the products that present a serious health risk are provided with the information that I, as a consumer, need. An important part of this is to ensure that there are clear health warnings on cigarette packets sold. Therefore, it is a good step to take to increase the volume of warning text on cigarette packets and that it is possible to have both picture and text. It will then be a clearer health warning for consumers. 5,200 people in Sweden die every year from tobacco-related cancer. Therefore, there is reason to make these changes. It is important that the packages do not contain information that leads consumers to believe that if they take a particular product, the risks are not so great. There should be no information that says that it is such a small nicotine content or so little of other dangerous substances that consumers can feel a little safer if they consume one particular product instead of another. Consumers should also not think that if they take a particular product, they are at least a little me r environmentally conscious and therefore fool themselves into thinking that they are choosing something that is not so dangerous. It's dangerous to smoke. There shall be no doubt about this. The report on which we are going to decide today is about the EU's tobacco product directive. It's not about the snuff today. This is clear from the report. Mr President, I would like to With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-419	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Parliament will decide on a number of measures to reduce smoking in Sweden. Today's decision prohibits, among other things, characteristic flavours and introduces combined health warnings with pictures and text on cigarette packets and roll-your-own tobacco. In Sweden, 1 000 people die every month from smoking. In Sweden, 8 000 people fall ill every month in various diseases due to smoking. The fact that 8 000 people fall ill and that 1 000 people die every month because of smoking makes smoking the most serious public health problem we have in Sweden. The costs of society and human suffering are enormous. The proposals to be decided by Parliament today will be of great importance. Cigarettes with tuttifrutti flavour, sour cream and blueberry flavour – to name but a few of the flavors available – which are currently being sold will be banned. This will play a major role in reducing tobacco marketing in order to attract young people to start smoking. Even pictures showing people's severe smoking - related diseases will appear on cigarette packs and will have a major impact on young people's ability not to start smoking. It will also be very likely to affect everyone who smokes. Mr President, I would like to Tobacco companies want to get young people to smoke with these tastes. This is not surprising in itself, given that 1 000 customers die a month in Sweden alone. What other product is legally sold and marketed in our country kills so many people every month? Buying cigarettes is buying death on packets. Smoking is a very effective shortcut to premature death and severe suffering in disease. Few efforts are so important to human health as not to smoke. Talking about public health or health care costs without clear measures to reduce smoking is not possible if you are to be credible as a politician or as a political party. That is why it is so extremely positive that all parties in the Riksdag support the goal of a smoke-free Sweden in 2025. The meaning of this is that smoking in 2025 should be severely reduced and no longer a dominant public health problem. The fact that today we have a united parliament behind the decision to be taken today to reduce smoking in Sweden is extremely important. Our objective is, of course, that the decision we are taking today will mean that young people will refrain from taking up smoking and that smokers will stop smoking. Quitting smoking, or preferably never to start smoking, is one of the best decisions you can make to get good health. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats have a reservation where they raise some issues related to snus. It is about Sweden to protect the authority over snus, that it should be allowed to refer to the taste, fragrance and additives in snus and that the Swedish Food Safety Agency should be the regulatory authority when it comes to snus. The Committee on Social Affairs notes that Sweden already has an exception in the EU with regard to snuff. Snus is governed by Swedish legislation that has been decided on in this Parliament. The committee also notes that there are no proposals in the proposal regarding restrictions on the taste of snuff. There is also no proposal in the bill on the supervisory role of the Swedish Food Safety Agency. Mr President, I would like to In the light of what I have said here, I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-430	Mr President, I would like to We are now examining the Government's proposal for the implementation of the EU Tobacco Products Directive. This means several excellent changes to the Tobacco Act which are likely to lead to a reduction in smoking. A reduction in smoking is a goal for the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the government. There is also broad political agreement on this, which is important. Despite the decline in smoking in recent decades, a thousand people still die each month from smoking, that is, 12 000 people each year. There are more people who die prematurely from alcohol, from suicide, and from traffic together. Nicotine is one of the most addictive substances there is, and it is very difficult to stop for anyone who wants to. The vast majority, about three out of four smokers, want to quit. There are therefore very good reasons for continuing the trend towards reduced smoking, which causes so much suffering and grief to all those affected and to all those who lose their relatives prematurely because of smoking. One goal that the Green Party fully supports is a smoke-free Sweden in 2025. On 1 March this year, the state tobacco investigator proposed, among other things, more smoke-free environments, a ban on the exposure of cigarettes and a requirement for authorisation to sell cigarettes. It is a proposal to which the Green Party is in favour. The investigation is now subject to a referral, and there are proposals from the government on the issues later this year. The matter we are dealing with now, namely changes to the Tobacco Act in accordance with the EU Tobacco Products Directive, means, among other things, that it should not be possible to promote certain cigarettes as better for health. The reason, of course, is that all cigarettes cause serious harm to health regardless of the exact level of various toxins. For example, so-called light cigarettes have proved to be as carcinogenic as most other cigarettes. Being able to describe certain cigarettes as less dangerous has been important for the tobacco industry in marketing. That possibility is being prevented now. Another important part of the bill is that packages of cigarettes, roll-your-own tobacco and snus packaging should not be allowed to resemble food or cosmetics. That should have been obvious before. We are introducing this now with the decision we are taking in a moment. Another thing that is excellent in this bill is that health warnings in text and picture should be larger. They are now being increased to the equivalent of 65% of the front and back of tobacco packaging. This too will make smoking less attractive. Another measure that is good in the proposal is that manufacturers and importers have to report on additives in cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco as well as studies they do on tobacco products. They must also be obliged to submit a notification when they intend to release a new tobacco product in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has gone further than many other countries in reducing the number of people who die and become ill from smoking. Nevertheless, smoking is one of our biggest public health problems. On average, a thousand people die every month from smoking, and that is, of course, not acceptable at all. Much remains to be done, and with this decision we are taking another step towards reducing smoking in Sweden. I support the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-439	Mr President, I would like to So we are discussing the EU tobacco product directive. It was adopted in 2001, and then in 2014 the EU decided to approximate the laws of the Member States. We are now discussing how to make this application in Sweden. Building on a high level of health protection, the Tobacco Products Directive aims to facilitate the smooth functioning of the internal market in tobacco products. It may sound contradictory, but it is good that it works smoothly when it does exist. However, the directive also aims to make tobacco products and consumption less attractive. The main target group in this is young people. It is also good with everyone who has the power to stop. The Center Party, of course, like the other parties, basically supports this joint important work to limit the use of mainly cigarettes. Former speakers have well explained what the Government's proposal for amendments to the Tobacco Act entails. There is broad agreement on this. The Moderates and the Swedish Democrats strike in a joint reservation some, as I see it, open doors. It wants to protect Sweden's authority over the regulation of snuff. Yeah, who doesn't? The Center Party fully supports this. And the government notes, as Hans Hoff said, that snuff is exempt from the rules on ingredients in the directive and that prohibitions on its use in tobacco do not cover snuff. There are no proposals on this now. The Tobacco Directive investigation, on which the government's proposal is based, certainly suggested that snuff should be covered by the ban on referring to taste and fragrance and more to packaging. However, this proposal is not included in the Government proposal or in the parliamentary decision we are about to take. The investigation has produced a final report. It proposes additional restrictions on, for example, permit requirements, smoking bans in more environments and also that snus packaging should not be allowed to refer to taste and smell. The government may return to Parliament with proposals in this regard. I'm sure where you land today doesn't know either the government or us outside the government. It applies to all political issues that when the government chooses to come back, or present something to the Riksdag, we may then take a position. We from the Center Party are, of course, prepared to do so. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the committee report and reject the reservation.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-446	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it is best to say that what we are talking about now does not include snuff. The decision we are going to take today is fully in line with the public health perspective that should prevail when we take decisions on tobacco. This is not a matter for the market, for the tobacco industry, which has lobbied heavily among the comrades in the committee. The tobacco industry has lost ground in much of the world. It is time to further remove platforms for them and strike a blow to public health. The left's attitude is not to moralize against individuals but to work on strengthening the public health perspective on a structural level to prevent the disease that comes from smoking. The big question is how to prevent the tobacco industry from selling goods that harm. Money talk! Their interests are crystal clear. That is precisely why I have not met with representatives of the tobacco industry. I represent the public health perspective, not those who earn money from tobacco and have completely different interests from public health. Their interests can be traced in the reservations submitted. The legislative amendments proposed by the committee include banning cigarettes and hand-rolling tobacco with a characteristic taste, increasing the reporting obligation for manufacturers and importers of tobacco products, combining health warnings with text and image equivalent to 65% of the space available for the front and back of certain tobacco products, and preventing the labelling of packaging for certain tobacco products from being similar to a food or cosmetic product. Tasting tobacco is a direct recruitment base for young people. Everyone should realize that. These are fashionable demands. Do Moderates and Swedish Democrats think it's nice to have cozy flavors of tobacco that can seduce young people? It surprises me somewhat. The labelling of tobacco products' packaging or of the tobacco product itself should not imply that a particular tobacco product has environmental benefits or refers to taste, fragrance or additives – as I have said before. The purpose of that part is to remove ingredients that make the products a little more cozy. I can't believe you don't raise the issue a little more. It is so clear that the tobacco industry is trying to capture new target groups. That is why I am surprised that reservations are being submitted because we are not actually talking about snuff. You've fallen into a trap. Sweden will of course work clearly for a smoke-free Sweden, and then the public health perspective will prevail. And you should never moralize over smokers. The effort should be directed at those who make heavy money from tobacco and close the door when the tobacco industry knocks on. On the subject of tobacco prevention, the committee considers that it was an important step forward when the Tobacco Products Directive was adopted within the EU. It is indeed a step forward if you look at what it looks like in some countries that have not made much progress in the fight against tobacco and for public health. The committee very much welcomes the directive. What do the Fashion Rats and the Swedish Democrats think – that marketing via taste and fragrance should be more aggressive? Are you living in some kind of smoke mist? I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-458	Mr President, I would like to Liberals support the EU directive and see it as an important step forward towards the phasing out of smoking. After all, it is a WHO objective to phase out smoking to at least less than 5%. Others have described what the directive says, so I do not repeat it. What I want to talk about is how important it is to prevent young people from starting to smoke. It was also evident in the presentation of this morning's cancer report that lung cancer is an extensive form of cancer and that it affects mainly women nowadays. We must focus on young women in particular, because their smoking also poses a different risk, namely if they become pregnant. Smoking in the mother also harms the fetus. Then some say: Yes, but it's probably just to quit smoking. Smoking contains issues of freedom that not least for us liberals are not always easy to discuss – rather tricky. Some say that it is free to start smoking. When it comes to young people, I wonder how much freedom is. Peer pressure may be quite significant. If a woman expecting a child wants to quit smoking, it turns out that 20% cannot quit. They have suffered a lack of freedom, the freedom caused by nicotine addiction. Nicotine is one of the most addictive substances we know – I have said this many times here in Parliament's pulpit – and it makes it even more important not to start smoking. Smoking also includes another issue of freedom. Many people cannot tolerate exposure to tobacco smoke. That is why we increasingly have non-smoking premises. We will be discussing in this House whether to broaden the possibilities for people who have this sensitivity to smoke to stay in a smoke-free environment, but this is a discussion that we will have here in the future. I think it is very important that the referrals from the consultation bodies that are now dealing with proposals from the inquiry on smoking freedom in outdoor restaurants, playgrounds and in other contexts become factual and knowledge-based, because if we are going to make decisions in this House and limit some freedoms, it is important that there is good research behind it and that the measures are effective for all the parties involved. As I said, the Liberals support the proposal in the report and call for the reservations to be rejected.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-465	Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of the reservation. In principle, it can be said that crisis management procedures should be coordinated. Our solution to this is to reclaim civilian defence. As an overall measure for this, we want to re-establish the Civil Defence Board. SOS Alarm would then become a department of this authority. Today, however, we will reduce the debate to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the government's governance of SOS Alarm. The first thing we take into account in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is that there is an important time factor when emergencies occur. For a severely injured person, it may be about minutes and seconds if life and health are to be saved. In the same way, it is with crime resolution; time is important. If the police receive information about current crimes too late, this may mean that the criminal escapes and that important evidence cannot be established. That is why we propose that the police should be able to obtain information on emergency matters at the same time as other emergency services. The second thing we take up in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is the problem of voice calls to the number 112. So many are these callers that they correspond to one month's work for the staff. We therefore believe that the misgivings as such should be criminalised. The third thing we take into account in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is the fact that SOS Alarm lacks supervision in practice. The authority MSB has a certain responsibility for SOS Alarm but not as a normal supervisory authority, but it is quite different perspectives. In order to solve the problem most easily, MSB should be given the formal role of supervisory authority over SOS Alarm. The fourth thing we take into account in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is the development that the number of emergency services is decreasing more and more. As the number of PSAPs decreases, local knowledge also decreases. Reduced local knowledge risks leading to slower address and location indications. We therefore propose that developments should be reversed so that the number of emergency services should now be increased. With these proposals for changes, I would also like to point out that the allocation for SOS Alarm should be increased because it will be an important part of the new civil defence that we are going to set up.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-473	Mr President, I would like to It is only that SOS Alarm is responsible for an extremely important and fundamental task in our modern society. Nor is there any talk of shortcomings in the current operations, which the Swedish National Audit Office has also observed. Mr President, it is too long a time to respond. It is about the absence of a formal supervisory authority, as Mikael Jansson was on the subject. And we have problems with people calling SOS Alarm without having any real business. We've got an increase in voice calls. It does not normally fall on the political opposition to defend the government. Nevertheless, Mr President, I cannot ignore the fact that the government has now made more funds available for both 2016 and 2017 to this important activity. As a result of, among other things, the report that the Swedish National Audit Office has made, an investigation has also been set up that looks at the issues that have now been raised. Mr President, I would like to I wonder a little bit about the thoughts of the Swedish Democrats to increase the number of emergency services in order to increase local knowledge. On the contrary, we Liberals believe that we should make use of the modern technology that exists today and which makes it possible to serve over very long distances also with accurate geographical information. I am convinced that the President knows that, among other things, the travel service in many Swedish municipalities has been organised from time to time not only from other countries but also from other continents and that this has been done with great success. Mr President, I would like to It's important to embrace the technology. It is important to see the opportunities it offers. This creates the conditions for a more rational operation. When the committee visited SOS Alarms County Centre in Stockholm almost a month and a half ago, we also learned that the various centres around Sweden can go in and help and support each other and in this way shorten the response times, regardless of the geographical distances involved. The committee has decided for good to await the investigation. Mr President, I would like to In the area of civil defence and emergency preparedness, which Mikael Jansson also touched upon, there is reason to also call SOS Alarm with the glasses. In recent decades we have experienced a number of major crises outside the Swedish territory. The tsunami and the Estonia disaster are a few examples. The question that arises is whether the dimensioning we now have on the alerting activities would be sufficient if Sweden suffered on its own territory a similar disaster and accident with a very large number of injured and killed. This is perhaps not the first place in this matter, but more in the forthcoming total defence planning promised by Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist and Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-485	Mr President, I would like to 112 is our national emergency number where we call when we are in urgent need of help. It is a complex chain with many actors involved that is activated when an emergency call is made: 112 operator, ambulance guidance, police and others. It is a technology-heavy activity with, as I have said, many actors involved operating under pressure of time and with little margin for error. It goes without saying that it is important for these activities to be based on a secure and stable basis. It is therefore important to learn lessons from the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The review reveals a number of comments on, among other things, long response times, lack of coordination, lack of addresses, unclear governance, differences in systems that make sharing information difficult and the large number of voice calls mentioned earlier. There are also criticisms from a large number of county councils regarding prehospital care. Parts of the criticism concern issues that SOS Alarm can and should handle internally. Serious criticism has been levelled at the long response times. Here SOS Alarm has started a work with national reception. If an emergency caller calls his regional 112 centre and does not receive a response within five seconds, the call will be forwarded to the first available receiver, wherever he is in the country. This has helped to shorten the response times. When it comes to the organisation and management of SOS Alarm, the Swedish National Audit Office points to shortcomings that require a deeper analysis. This includes the fact that coordination in the system is based on voluntary and consensus-based solutions. Two county councils have chosen not to sign an agreement with SOS Alarm but have ambulance directing in their own direction. Past experience shows that such solutions may delay alerting, for example if SOS Alarms have to wait for calls to be answered. It is easy to see the dangers and risks of allowing the alarm service to split up and become more fragmented. The Government therefore initiated a new investigation on 12 November last year, a follow-up to the first alert service investigation. The mission is to analyse and propose a national alert function. The Government, like the Swedish National Audit Office, believes that there are strong reasons to implement measures for an improved and more effective alert service. The investigation shall propose how both a State administrative authority and a company can be set up and organised in order to be a national alert function. Another important task for the investigation is to propose a technical platform for better coordination. The Government's focus is therefore that a national alert function should be set up to receive and process alarms with exclusive rights if possible. The alarm function should be designed in such a way that no other alarm centres need to be built up to a significant extent. Mr President, I would like to Society's alarm service is a fundamental commitment, and the Swedish National Audit Office's report contains important lessons. Perhaps even more important is that we can see that this review is now being followed up.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-495	Mr President, I would like to We live in a welfare society, and there are certain things that we naturally expect to work in such a society. SOS Alarm is such a matter of course. There's nothing that can make us as unprotected as if an alarm when we need help isn't working. It's just going to be fatal. A functioning SOS Alarm is part of our basic security. It will work wherever we are in the country. It also requires that the alarm is handled quickly enough and that the resources are properly prioritised depending on what I have been affected by. It is just as important that I receive rapid and adequate help if I fall ill as if I am given rapid and adequate help if I am in other danger or need police help. It's a savior in need of both people and property. That's why it matters who answers and handles my case when I call 911. That the person has the right authority and that I quickly connect correctly is just as important as that my case is handled quickly. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on the government's governance of SOS Alarm is a review of how SOS alarming works today and what can be done to make operations more efficient. It has looked at how the business has functioned from a citizen's perspective, if the business has been fast, safe and secure. SOS Alarm is and should be an important infrastructure in society. There is a great deal of criticism in the report, although it believes that SOS Alarm should be kept together in the way it is organised today. In order to ensure a secure SOS alarm, as pointed out in the audit report, a good infrastructure is required. It shall be an infrastructure that has a secure alarm chain from the needy to the alarm operator. It should also be a good infrastructure at the alarm operator level in terms of computer support with all that it means of transparency and safe reporting. The quality of the technical platform is of the utmost importance, and it is also clearly pointed out in the report. There have been shortcomings here, as the audit rightly points out. There has also been a lack of clarity in the government's governance of SOS Alarm. What are the requirements for quality and service, and have these requirements been made sufficiently clear? This applies to everything from response times to what development of the business you want to see. This means that SOS Alarm has not had a clear target for what the business should deliver. Lack of clarity always leads to a deterioration in performance and to uncertainty that does not promote quality. There are criticisms from county councils, which are the largest partners. They are the ones who receive most of them who seek help via SOS Alarm. It is a criticism that should have been heeded. Cross-border cooperation between alarm operators and carers should also be improved. The owner's image with 50 per cent ownership from municipalities and county councils and 50 per cent state ownership is a foundation that makes the decision-making task unclear. The audit points to clear quality problems such as the lack of proper registration of the addresses. As a result, ambulances and fire trucks simply do not find the needy fast enough, which can have devastating effects if the situation is acute. It is an important statement and one that needs to be corrected. There is also negligence in reporting to the apartment register used. The problem, however, is that there is no clear supervisory responsibility in this respect, whether it is the municipality's responsibility or not. What has also emerged is that it is important for, among other things, the routing of ambulances to secure the alarm chain in a good way. It is a matter of routing, but also of using the ambulances where they are most needed. It is true to say that some kind of supervisory responsibility for the fact that it actually works needs to be put in place. There needs to be an ongoing dialogue with citizens but also a better dialogue with the municipalities and county councils on the other side of the alert chain. It's something you might think is a matter of course. Only if this process works can SOS Alarm be developed in terms of both quality and service level. SOS Alarm is too important to be assessed only on the basis of alarm times in the alarm chain. There is so much more that is important and that is part of the security we all want so much to have confidence in. Furthermore, as the audit points out, there is a need to reduce the red tape to SOS Alarm. There is certainly a need for information what the number should be used for. But it is also a sign that people in need of someone to talk to simply call SOS Alarm. Social problems can and should not be solved by emergency numbers. Something else needs to be done here. SOS Alarm is to be regarded as an infrastructure issue. It is therefore important that traffic and management function. It is of course important what resources are available to deploy. But it is equally important that the resources available are actually where they are most needed and are most useful. The Government needs to carefully consider and take note of the Swedish National Audit Office's report. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-512	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's reports are important elements for our work in the Riksdag on follow-up, accuracy and governance. It gives us an important guide for areas of improvement and how the activities are conducted. Alarming operations are a socially important infrastructure for which SOS Alarm is responsible. It is directly necessary for the general public to be able to implement its obligation to be responsible for different types of rescue operations. Coordination and dialogue between the various activities is extremely important. There is continuous technological development. This constantly places new demands on the activities. This is part of the report from the Swedish National Audit Office where the review shows that the company has not had the pieces of the future technology platform in focus. This may hamper the sharing of information between SOS Alarm and other actors in the alarm chain when using different types of technical systems. The fact that actors in the alert chain are not able to share the information electronically means that there is a risk of a longer alarm processing time than necessary and that there is a risk of losing information along the way. The follow-up shows that average response times have been too long in recent years. There have also been ambiguities in the state's alarm agreement that have led to uncertainty as to whether the activities have been conducted as intended by the Riksdag. There are many points raised by the Swedish National Audit Office in this report. One thing mentioned is the importance of investigating possibilities for legislation or other measures to improve the registration of location addresses. It needs to be made clear who has supervisory responsibility for compliance with the Housing Register Act. There is also a need to develop technical solutions that allow for electronic sharing between the different actors. It is gratifying, positive and important that the government has launched the investigation that is now under way after the announcement last February when we last discussed the issue in the report by the Committee on Defence. It is about focusing on these important issues. It's a broad perspective in the investigation. It will be very interesting to take note of it for the next spring when the investigation will be delivered at the latest. When it comes to calls to the 112 service and other similar emergency numbers, reporting shows that in 2014, the number of calls to 112 was just under 3.3 million, of which 2 million were actual distress calls. The trend is that the number of emergency calls and the proportion of actual distress calls are increasing. However, the incorrect distress calls were still significant and amounted to 40.8 percent, i.e. just over 1.3 million calls in 2014. These are high numbers and many conversations. If you call and report an incorrect information, you risk a fine or imprisonment for up to one year. Anyone who misuses police, municipal rescue services, ambulances, military and sea rescue services is at risk of fines or imprisonment for up to six months in the event of misuse of the alarm system. There are also other important measures that need to work preventively to reduce the number of fault alarms or misuses of these important facilities. It is important to continue to focus on getting as short a time as possible between the start of the conversation and that there is an action in place. In terms of the different objectives, it shall be no more than eight seconds mean response time to 112, no more than 8 % of calls shall have a mean response time exceeding 15 seconds and no one shall have to wait more than 30 seconds. Mr President, I would like to This is a fundamental and protective activity for our society. It is important that it is an area that works 24:7. We work long-term and do what we can to ensure that there are conditions and clarity for conducting the operations and that there is a coordination between them. The overall responsibility of an actor is improved through collaboration in all parts. There should also be equal treatment in all parts of the country. No resident should have to doubt that there is someone who answers and that help is delivered in the next instance needed in the sharp positions. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-523	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved in the report and for the reservation to be rejected. What we are discussing today is the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the government's governance of SOS Alarm. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is an important basis for us in the Riksdag in order to be able to follow up various types of activities. The recommendations made are very important to us. It is also worth pointing out that Sweden, unlike many other countries, has for a long time had a fundamentally well-functioning system of coordinated alerting. Basic to the system has been that there has been only one common emergency number and that SOS alarms have coordinated the alarm treatment to a relatively large extent. It is important to see that, as the Swedish National Audit Office points out, there are some shortcomings that risk affecting the quality of the service. One shortcoming is that coordination in the system is based on voluntary and consensus solutions. Another shortcoming is that there is no single actor who has an explicit responsibility to ensure that the alert service is coordinated and well-coordinated. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office presents several proposals that are important to follow up. There is also an investigation that has come about precisely because of the initiative taken by the committee last year. Now it's important to see what comes out of the investigation. In doing so, I once again call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-530	Mr President, I would like to It is entrepreneurs who create jobs. It is entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who dare and want and who hire a person at the food store, perhaps an IT technician who works with an app or software or perhaps an engineer who develops a new technical offer in some way. It is precisely the entrepreneur who creates work. Sweden is a fundamentally good country, but Sweden knows more. Much in Sweden works well, but a lot can be much better. For many people, life flows on with family, work and other things in an amazing way, while for others it is incredibly difficult to get into the labour market and become part of Swedish society. Sweden should be an industrial and entrepreneurial country. If we are to cope with people getting a job and if we are to afford to fund everything we think is important, such as school and care, the solution is more and more growing companies. Sweden is now facing several major challenges in the coming years. The first thing I want to stress is the new alienation that is emerging and giving us ever greater challenges. The former broad exclusion has been transformed into a new and a little more pointed, focusing primarily on young and foreign born. Some people are going crazy while others find it incredibly difficult to enter the labour market and get the first real job. The challenges will also increase for Sweden in the coming years because many people have come to Sweden in recent years. It is easy for politicians to say that everyone should have a chance and that everyone should be able to enter the labour market. But it also requires concrete reforms. This is what you should see, Mr President. The Moderates have put forward a series of concrete proposals to push back the new exclusion. This applies, for example, to a specific form of employment, to first-job employment, and to a specific targeted tax reduction for people who take the first, important job. It is simply about enabling more people to get this important first job, which can then give a second job that can then give a third job. We can say, Mr President, that the government is facing a new and more challenging exclusion by making it more expensive to hire and less profitable to work. It also worsens in various ways for companies through reforms such as pushing back, reducing and changing RUT and ROT deductions. The challenge is growing. The government is facing it with different types of deterioration. That's not good enough! The second thing I would like to press for as a greater challenge in the long term, Mr President, is the increasing competition faced by Swedish industry. Competition is not really new, but for decades the Swedish industry, for example, has been hard-tested with competition against competitors in other countries. What we are seeing clearly now is that more and more countries in the world are in as part of the world economy. It is an effect of globalisation and economic development. This also means that the trial that Sweden and Swedish companies are subjected to is increasing in a way that we have not seen before. It's tougher, and it's harder. The responsibility that falls on us politically is that in this environment we need to make things easier for both businesses and the enterprising people. That is how we can ensure that we face the rather tough competition that companies face every day from companies both here at home and in other countries, close or a little further away. The answers for the Moderates are to make proper investments in things such as research, innovation and infrastructure, which we know can provide new opportunities to build new businesses. It is about looking at the school initiatives we do with more mathematics in school, more career services for teachers and early programming so that today's young people will be better equipped for a professional life whether it be as an employee or self-employed later in life. It is about the special effort we make to get more new arrivals to not only work but also start their own businesses. It is about the regulatory simplification package we have proposed to enable entrepreneurs to spend a little more time doing business and a little less time on unnecessary administration and bureaucracy. It is about the proposal we have to reduce the requirement for share capital, which makes it easier for more people to choose this form of company. It is about efforts to get more companies to go on export or, for that matter, to improve the conditions for entrepreneurs and growing technology companies through better conditions for options. It is also about such a thing as enabling more older people to remain in the labour market. It is important for the entire Swedish economy, but it is also important for many companies to be able to use the skills that exist a little further up in the years. The list can be made even longer, but it is through this kind of concrete decisions and concrete reforms that we can face the increasing competition that Sweden and Swedish companies are exposed to. That is how we can build competitiveness. Against the Moderates and against the Alliance's proposal is a government that takes Sweden on the wrong path. S and MP face the new exclusion by making it more expensive to hire and less profitable to work. There are many questions widely in industrial policy linked to the government's competitiveness. For example, transport is made more expensive in various ways. This is important for industry. It is also about trade policy, which we know has always been important for Sweden. S, MP and also the support party V are diametrically different on important trade policy issues, as in their approach to the trade agreement between Europe and the United States. When at the same time about half of the Swedish economy is linked to exports and imports and when there is a lot of this we live by, it creates unnecessary uncertainty. On the contrary, we should be clear on this type of issue. If we are to lay the foundations for more jobs and growing companies, we need to tackle the somewhat greater challenges of competitiveness and exclusion and to do so with concrete reforms. There is a connection between words and actions for the Moderates and for the colleagues in the Alliance. But it does not do so for the government parties, as it does for Sweden in the wrong direction. It is also done with things such as public procurement, where people try to change with good intent but make it difficult for smaller companies to submit tenders and to have it as a basis for growth. There are various ways in which efforts are being made to suppress important entrepreneurship in the welfare sector. It brings Sweden on the wrong path, and it does not tackle the important challenges we need to address, Mr President. Finally, although I naturally support all our reservations in the report, I would like to express my support for reservation 1.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-551	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating NU15 Nutrition policy. In the report, the Swedish Democrats have five reservations. We are, of course, behind them. But for time winning, I only ask for reservations 17 and 18. The report focuses on the business environment. In the long run, we are talking about both jobs and the country's tax revenue. For the prosperity of Sweden and its citizens, it is a prerequisite that companies can operate and grow. In this context, it must be understood that unconsidered bureaucracy, taxes and other cost drivers are obstacles to growth. It is therefore important to be careful with new requirements and tax charges. The truth is that well-targeted tax cuts can increase tax revenues. Swedish industry is becoming increasingly competitive. Previous truths about the strength of Swedish industry are no longer as obvious. Some 163 000 industrial jobs have disappeared from Sweden since 2000. It is assumed that a large number of additional services and services related to industry have disappeared. The downward trend has several interrelated reasons. But it is clear that so far policy has not put the issue on the agenda in a desirable way. The Alliance ignored industrial conditions for eight years in government. They thought wrong when they declared that Swedish industry belonged to the past. Instead, they placed almost every crown of reform on the service sector, which they thought would replace industry. It is therefore gratifying that the Moderates have come on the track with an industrial movement. It is also gratifying if it is in this way that the Moderates received inspiration for their motion from the 2015 spring budget of the Swedish Democrats, which was known as Industrilandet Sverige. Mr President, I would like to Since the election movement, the Social Democrats have been talking about a so-called new industrialisation strategy. Well, I guess so. The more people who pay attention to the importance of a competitive industry, the better it is. However, the common thread of the Social Democrats' and the Government's proposals is that it does not seem to cost anything. For example, there are no tax reductions on the map. In government positions, the Social Democrats have so far consistently made it more difficult for our industry to compete with the outside world. Energy policy is one of the most important elements for Sweden's heavy industry, which in many cases is very energy intensive. This industry also accounts for many of the important jobs outside the central centres. Unfortunately, energy policy has come to be governed by dreamers and activists without technical know-how. It should really be governed by engineers and technologists, who are based on the given natural laws of the universe. I'm predicting a lead-heavy hangover for the whole community. In this country, we obviously have to take every bad idea to the end of the road before sobering can happen. Life sciences are also an important subject. As far as this is concerned, we have a common reservation with the Moderates. We had our own reservation about life sciences and life science. There is no reason why they are not included in this report, but that does not make the issue any less important. We believe that there is a wide range of things that we need to be better at if Swedish pharmaceutical and medicine companies are to be able to compete in the global market. It is of the utmost importance that the whole healthcare apparatus is involved in the development. Therefore, opportunities to provide targeted innovation funds should be explored with a view to early use of innovative solutions by healthcare and care. As I said, the Swedish democrats have more reservations in this report, which I do not intend to go into in depth for reasons of time, such as the important issue of regulatory simplification for business.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-561	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Josef Fransson spoke a great deal about industry, life sciences and the important energy policy. They are also mentioned in the report. That's good. I want to get into trade policy. You want to invest in industry, Josef Fransson. If we look at how Swedish industry operates today, we can see that it is European countries that are some of our most important markets today. You represent a party that wants Sweden to leave the EU. Today we have the free movement of products and services in Europe. On the contrary, many of us want to develop the internal market to improve for Swedish companies and their ability to trade with others. Why do you want to reduce the conditions for Swedish industrial companies to sell on the European market?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-564	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know what Lars Helmered means by that we would like to worsen. He may mean our EU-critical approach, which means that we want to limit supranationality and thereby increase Sweden's self-determination. It does not necessarily mean a deterioration of trade relations with the EU. Nor do I believe that it will prevent us from pushing for our own free trade agreements around the world if we do not let Europe do it for us. But we're not quite there yet. Now that a moderate representative is standing in the speaker's chair opposite me and I could not have answered otherwise, I would like to take this opportunity to ask how the Moderates view the Alliance's eight years in government and that they ignored the important industrial policy, which is the basis of Swedish business. Have they changed their mind now? It seems that way. Can the Moderates then admit that it was wrong to claim that Swedish industry belongs to the past and is practically gone, as I think a certain party leader and prime minister said?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-567	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is an industrial and entrepreneurial country. I think it should continue to be. I have a background in industry and I know how important it is. This applies both to developing products and services as well as for research, jobs and tax revenues for Sweden. It permeates the policy of the Moderates. Let me, however, go back to trade policy. It's important. One can take an EU-critical stance, but the attitude of the Swedish democrats is that we should leave European cooperation. I do not want to beautify cooperation and say that it is perfect. It's not like that. But for companies it still means a free internal market where they can sell cars, cargo cars or whatever it can be free in France, Germany and other countries. Josef Fransson and the Swedish Democrats want to leave the cooperation but try to give the impression that such a situation would mean free access to the markets in the future. You can't be sure of that. Norway has partial access to the markets. However, we should remember that they have to adapt to the rules that the EU says should apply to a large extent. The effect of what you want to do with European policy, Josef Fransson, is thus a blow to Swedish industry and ultimately Swedish industry. Their ability to sell their products and services to customers in Europe is thus deteriorating. How would it help industry and jobs in Sweden?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-572	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are always clear that the EU has advantages as well as disadvantages. Our conclusion, however, is that the disadvantages are far outweighed. When it comes to whether it would affect Swedish trade, we have not explicitly said that it is only an EU exit that applies. We want a renegotiation. The current EU could continue to be a free trade union. I think that's in everyone's interest. Since our EU entry, the share of our exports to the EU has decreased while exports to the rest of the world have increased. Of course, the EU-28 is an important recipient of our goods. But we are not just exporting to the EU. As I said, our assessment is that the EU is not good for Sweden.
i-3CCdmeUFYjjZJqUbL7kFgV	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I support reservations 3 and 6. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is now facing several major challenges. One of the biggest challenges is to create more jobs. We see large flows of refugees. Even if we offer a sanctuary in our country for a great many, we cannot duck because exclusion increases. Outside Sweden is another of the major challenges ahead. Many people today have no job to go to. The gap between town and country is growing. In order to make use of all the skills available in our country, we also need what is commonly called a simpler job. Not all people who come to our country are highly educated, but they still have a great deal to contribute as long as they get the opportunity. Sweden is one of the countries in the EU with the lowest proportion of easy jobs. This is because we have been streamlining many businesses and jobs for a long time. In addition, higher demands are being placed on education today. Mr President, I would like to Despite this, the RUT deduction is now halved while the ROT deduction is reduced. These are jobs that have reduced the proportion of black jobs and have led to a large number of new businesses. In fact, these companies have hired many people who have previously been far removed from the labour market. Although the government has now agreed to extend the RUT deduction to several areas, it is not possible today to make the same deductions as before. If the government were wise, it would untie the Left Party's grip on the issue and realise that society as a whole would benefit from a greater deduction. The unemployment rate of immigrants today stands at over 15%. It's three times as much as it is for natives. That gap is greatest across the EU. One way to get to work is to run your own business. But it is very difficult to start a business in Sweden. It is not easy even for those who grew up in our country. In addition, Sweden has unusually many complicated rules compared to other countries. That is why the Center Party has recently proposed a new form of enterprise for smaller companies that we call entry companies. The proposal applies to companies with a turnover of up to 250 000. The entrepreneur charges on his mobile phone, and a flat-rate tax of 25 per cent of the turnover is charged directly to the Swedish Tax Agency. The rest is kept by the entrepreneur. This is as simple as it gets. With entry companies, much more immigrants would take the step of starting their own business, not least because of simplicity. This does not require any knowledge of Swedish bureaucracy or tax legislation. No VAT needs to be entered in the accounts, no own contribution is paid and no provisional tax is calculated. The only thing the starter needs to keep track of is his sales. The entry companies are well suited to new arrivals, but the proposal is not limited to a specific group. Entry companies should be able to be set up by everyone, regardless of their background. An idea and a mobile phone– then you can start to cook computers, paint houses, cut the grass, crop apple trees or renovate bicycles. Whoever you are, whatever your idea, this is an incredibly simple and cheap way to start and run businesses without any hassle and great demands for prior knowledge. Mr President, I would like to In order to create more jobs, we also need to ease the cost of hiring. We know that many entrepreneurs hesitate when to hire the first person. You need to know if you can afford to hire a person. Do I have coverage for another person throughout the year? It's going up and down. Some seasons may be more rewarding than others. In order to encourage companies to take the step of hiring a first person, the Center Party has proposed that employers' contributions be avoided during the first two years of employment. The competitiveness of Swedish companies is another major challenge, not least in view of the fact that the left-wing government has now radically increased the costs for companies to employ both young and even older people over the age of 65. You raise taxes by over 27 billion and expect companies to flourish. At the same time, Minister for Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg raises the export effort to the skies with 300 modest millions per year during his term of office. The initiative is welcome, but unless companies have good conditions at home, how can they export and stand well in international competition? Mr President, I would like to Another challenge for our companies and for competitiveness is transport. Increased taxation on petrol and diesel mainly affects people and companies operating in areas where distances are long. It does not work just to increase the costs of transport without introducing at the same time some kind of green tax exchange. Furthermore, the government has set up a study on mileage taxes which, if it were to go through, would help to further increase transport costs, not least in rural areas. Then a bigger bag of money needs to be invested in expanding rail freight. I might even venture to say that this type of infrastructure investment has had to stand back for many years for investments in passenger transport. Of course, one should not rule out the other, but it cannot be reasonable that an investment in fast rail in southern Sweden, which also seems to be only more expensive and expensive, should crowd out many other important investments in the rest of Sweden. The other day, there was a report from the Chamber of Commerce in Mälardalen, Almega, the technology companies, the Port of Gothenburg and the Transport Council of the business community, which highlighted this with the importance of freight transport. It says, among other things, that investments must be made throughout our elongated country so that transport flows well from north to south. I hope that the government will accept this report. Mr President, I would like to Another problem is the regulatory problem, not least with all new regulations coming through the EU. Unfortunately, it almost seems that we in Sweden have some kind of predilection to complicate these rules even more in the Swedish version. Often the proposals become even more comprehensive when we, as legislators, have clearly mangled them, even though Europe does not always demand them. One such recent example is that the EU wants to include sustainability issues in annual reports for companies with more than 500 employees. The government felt that this should also apply to the really small companies, but after criticism the proposal was withdrawn, modified and returned with a proposal that would apply to all companies with more than 250 employees. Sustainability is important, but it is also Swedish competitiveness. It should be added that Germany, with which we often compare ourselves, adopted the EU proposal straight away. Maybe we should do the same? The truth is that it is the total taxation, the rules and the costs that affect competitiveness. It is easy to make decisions in one area and not to think it is so dangerous, but it is the sum of the cardamom that entrepreneurs have to relate to.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-593	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the Enterprise Committee's NU15 report on enterprise policy. In the concept of enterprise policy, there is plenty of effort, and all the politicians dealing with these issues have one thing in common, namely that we want well for the entrepreneurs, for the country and, in our case, for the employees too. Sweden is one of the world's most innovative and competitive countries. Basic to this is to have a high level of knowledge and a good innovation climate. The links between industry and education institutions are crucial for the long-term sustainability of maintaining our competitiveness. SMEs are one of the most important job creators. Sweden needs more high-performance, innovative and fast growing companies in all parts of the country. Mr President, I would like to One of the most fun things that I as a Member of Parliament have is the privilege that I can quite easily visit large and small companies. During the week, I and my colleague, Håkan Svenneling, took the opportunity to visit industries. We visited companies both in Värmland and Norrbotten. Two large industries that we visited – one in Värmland and one in Norrbotten – both of which are mainly export industries pointed out the importance of education in order to recruit labour. Another point that emerges from such industrial visits is, of course, competition differences. Our industry works daily with improvements regarding climate and environmental work. But our competitor countries, which often have much dirtier operations, compete in the same global market. Of course, the supply of energy is important for these large industries. Another point that emerges from the discussions with representatives of these industries was the need for efficient logistics in the form of rail and maritime freight transport. It came to the attention of smaller companies how important it is to work and competitive transport solutions for their operations. This strengthened our view that public investment in infrastructure, as the Left Party demands, is important for Sweden's industries and their competitiveness. We visited several companies in both counties, and it felt good when discussing what would be important for them. We often agreed on many things, such as priorities. I cannot help but mention a sawmill owner in my municipality whom we had the privilege of visiting. Regarding the raw material, the sawmill is located in a good place, but the customers are far away. He highlighted two things. One was how important it is for his operations with transport subsidies and of course 74 tonnes of cargo capacity. But the second point he made made made made me really happy. He pointed out the importance of research and development together with companies and universities for the future, so that new products can be developed in the wood industry. In this way he saw the benefits even for himself for the future. Seeing his commitment to his life's work really warmed up. And it felt pretty good, you know, that they invested in one of Europe's most modern sawmills up in my home municipality. Here the Left Party shares the government's view. In addition to active industrial policy, public investment in infrastructure, research, housing and climate change is needed if companies are to develop. It is also necessary for policies at all levels to develop cooperation with industry, authorities, trade unions, associations of interest groups, industrial research institutes and universities and colleges. As I revealed, I was on company visits last week. I am impressed by the foresight and commitment of entrepreneurs in many ways. One thing I definitely reacted to was that their wish list often did not correspond with what the Swedish business lobbyists emphasize to us as politicians. For example, it was an entrepreneur in Värmland who thought it was definitely too easy for Swedish companies to move their business abroad. The employees should receive at least two years' salary before such a move could be carried out, was his proposal for action. I come from sparsely populated areas often get caught up in thoughts about how rural and rural areas can get to a vibrant economy and livelihoods for the population. I believe that what these parts of our country will be working on is precisely what is there: the forest, the minerals, the food supply and tourism. That these should then be further processed to the max is the wisest and the most effective. Further development of residential building with wood as the main material is one thing that the Left Party wants to prioritise in order to contribute to the development of society. It would provide jobs where the raw material is located and where the need for jobs is greatest. The relocation of government jobs is something that the state should prioritise in order to provide a little more even distribution of these, but above all provide some foundation stones that are not so sensitive to every market turn. Mr President, I would like to In order not to forget that I shall insist on something, I am in favour of our reservation, No 16 under paragraph 8. It is based on a motion on the status of the tourism industry. The Left Party believes that the government should put forward proposals for cooperation programmes aimed at increasing cooperation between state, municipalities, associations and companies in order to attract more visitors. The tourism industry should be given the same status as other industries, because it is an industry that will become one of the bearers in the future even for rural areas if we play our cards right. But even in this industry, it emerges how important the infrastructure is. I know that the committee will deal with state funding efforts later this spring, but I just have to tell you about a tourist entrepreneur we visited last week. Sara, one of the owners of the Explore the North in Kangos, told how difficult their beginnings were when they applied for funding. Two young people who were in the starting pits with good ideas were unable to get loans. The banks said no, even though it was only $200,000. If they hadn't been so stubborn and turned over all the stones, I don't think the company would have existed today. They finally had to borrow in a bank in Dalsland to start a business in northern Sweden. It is clear here how important venture capital is in the start-up phase. Today, ten years later, they have a business of between 20 and 30 employees six months a year. They have more than 50 beds and almost fully occupied during the high season. She mentioned that state venture capital is crucial to bringing the banks along. Often it is painted a picture that tourism would find it difficult to develop because of other industries, such as forestry, mines and so on. I have not received this picture from our tourist companies anyway. I am convinced that all these industries fit and can coexist around a common goal. And this objective, Mr President, is that rural areas should survive, develop and contribute to the bioeconomy and the construction of a community where natural resources are bearers and are used sustainably, but not exploited.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-610	Mr President, I would like to Birger Lahti said many wisdoms in his speech on business, industry opportunities and the tourism industry. But it was an area I lacked, namely trade policy. About half of the Swedish economy is linked to imports and exports. We know how important this has been for Sweden historically, and it will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. Not long ago, in Parliament, the Committee on Economic Affairs held a special debate on the so-called export strategy. Some opinions were broken there. We also know from the past that there have been left-wing divisions in the view of the trade agreement between Europe and the United States, where the Left has taken a very nifty and negative attitude. In the debate about two weeks ago, the Left Party said that it felt that Sweden as a country should not give priority to so-called non-democrats, but should only be allowed to prioritise democratic countries. This is where Swedish companies will trade. This means, in practice, that the Left Party does not want to facilitate trade with a country like the United States and that priority should be given to a country such as China and possible new emerging countries such as Cuba and Iran. Then there are not as many countries left to focus on when Swedish industrial companies will receive sales for their products and services. Then I wonder: To which countries will Swedish industrial companies sell? How can it be better for industrial companies, for example in northern Sweden, to avoid trade in different ways with countries such as the USA, China, Iran and Cuba, as the Left wants?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-614	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Helmered for the questions. I think it is quite natural that we should give priority to countries that are taking care of themselves. I think you do, too, Lars. If you could choose between two countries that pay as much for what you produce and one does not follow human rights, has a government that is not democratic and even executes people, I think you would also choose the other and better of these customers. The fact that we will then work peacefully on the issue of resolving these conflicts and trying to get customers in these countries with whom we would like to trade is certainly in order. However, when we visited these export industries, two large industries, one with 850 and the other with 1,200 employees, there was no indication that we were going to have problems with trade issues. The problem is to get the goods out to the shipping site. This applies not least to the railways. We were told, for example, that steel materials were at worst flown away from Sweden so that a European car manufacturer would not be standing. It's just in time, but the trains don't roll. The fact that they are not rolling is because this has not been given priority, not during your reign and perhaps not before it either. This is one of the reasons why it works badly that was raised.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-616	Mr President, I would like to We know how important trade is for Sweden as a country and for Swedish companies. Experience shows that more trade and more free trade benefits and helps Swedish companies and Swedish jobs. I would like to highlight this because it is a matter of principle. Of course, we can all say that there are some junk countries with junk regimes that do not comply with fundamental human rights and freedoms. It's not okay. Sweden should make that clear in foreign policy, and Swedish companies should bear this in mind in their conduct when they exist in such markets. When Sweden is to prioritise which countries to focus on and the Left Party says that one chooses away a number of countries for that reason, it also means that one chooses away trade opportunities and thereby job opportunities in Sweden. That's really what the meaning is. Many of us are in favour of getting as broad, as deep and as good a trade agreement as possible with the United States, while the Left Party is therefore in favour of actually being against this. After all, your colleagues in the European Parliament have said this, and your party chairman has clearly opposed it. This will make it worse, everything else equal, for Swedish companies. So it will be harder to sell in the United States than it would have been otherwise. You also want to prioritise or avoid trading with large and important emerging markets in the Middle East and Asia in various ways. This affects companies, and I wonder: how did you think there, and how could it make things easier for industries in Birger Lahti's hometown, for example?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-620	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has never said that we should not trade with, for example, the United States. We have not said that we should not have a trade relationship with the United States. On the other hand, with regard to this agreement, which I suspect Lars Hjälmered is referring to when he says that we have said that it is not good, I agree that there is much that a democratically elected assembly does not want to give to the population, for example that large companies have priority one. The Left Party has pointed out this clearly, but I want to see where Lars Helmered finds that we should have said that we should not trade with the United States. If two customers came to Lars Hjälmered with money in their hands and one has stolen them and the other has earned them – who would Lars Hjälmered choose to sell to? I think Lars Helmered and I both know what he would say.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-622	Mr President, I would like to I noted, Birger Lahti, that you spent quite a lot of time in your speech on tourism, which is one of the major industries in Sweden and continues to grow. I think the latest figure I saw was that there were 159 000 people employed in the tourism industry, and in addition, the number of tourists to Sweden increases only every year. Global tourism is also increasing, and as people get a little better off, for example, in China and India, their interest in seeing what is on the other side of the world, including Sweden, grows. Then it is not only the cities that can offer exciting experiences but also smaller places out in the country. We also know that many of the tourist companies are very dependent on keeping costs down by offering a lot of services and not selling products. Visita, the tourism industry, has therefore welcomed the reduction in employers' contributions for young people. Now, however, with the support of the Left Party, the government has chosen to double this employer's contribution, and I am thinking: Inser Birger Lahti what kind this will be against especially the small tourist companies that are around the country and who might need this employee? In addition, it is an opportunity for the employee to get a first job to go to. Very many young people are employed in this industry.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-624	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the question! If I didn't realize there would be a cost, then I wouldn't be here. That's how I can count. However, in order to achieve a system that develops rural areas and sparsely populated areas in the long term, I believe that permanent jobs must be created in these tourism companies. Getting a full-year job is more difficult. I therefore agree that there is a cost increase for these entrepreneurs, but I think we need to work on this issue so that at least some people in the villages around and around the city can get full-time jobs all year round in these companies. Then it becomes something that gives effect to the place. I realize that there are people who come into their first job here, and there's a cost increase. But we have made that priority because we believe that in some other places it will not be as accurate as it might be in this case.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-627	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Birger Lahti! I still find it very boring, because I think Birger Lahti is aware that smaller companies in small villages are very dependent on being able to hire someone. But how can they hire someone if costs increase? That's the opportunity they have to have a year's employee. From the beginning, you may have the opportunity as an entrepreneur to take a small step and hire someone over the summer for example or during the winter season, and then you work for the rest of the year. But if the company goes better and grows, which it probably can do when you are more hands that can help, then also increases the possibility of an open-ended employment. I believe that the proposal that you have now agreed to with the government impairs the possibility for many of these entrepreneurs. I've met a lot of people in my communities who run small restaurant companies or tourist companies. They say this is going to hit them hard, because it's tough enough to dare to take the step of perhaps hiring someone seasonal. So this will have negative effects, and we cannot afford that, Birger Lahti. I therefore wonder: what does the Left Party want to do to encourage and compensate all these small businesses around Sweden?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-631	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, there are many things that are picking up on tourist companies as well. We have a holistic view in the countryside and sparsely populated areas that is about how we should work with the things that are there. However, I am convinced that the State's contribution to the reduction of the social security contribution was expensive in relation to the number of jobs it created. If Helena Lindahl has proposals for tax revenue, bring them up, for them I have seen so little of! I've seen how to cut revenue from the Center Party, but the revenue side I've seen very little of. Come with that and we will discuss how we might be able to target them to those who need it best! But the effort as such became expensive for the state with very few jobs as a result.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-633	Mr President, I would like to Members of this House! I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 5 and 6. Very wisely has been said during today's chamber debate. Now I take up my seat in the speaker's chair and would like to make it clear that I am doing so on my own behalf. I myself am a work-making entrepreneur of flesh and blood. I have left my home and business at home in Fyrbodal to come here to Stockholm and make my and my fellow voices heard. When we are spoken of in this House, it is usually done from a top-down perspective, where we are being relegated to a revenue item for the pleasure of the state administration – oddly enough as an item of expenditure in the state budget, while companies' revenue to the public purse is counted in billions. But I promise you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are flesh and blood, with our own dreams and motives for our business. Common to us is that we seek freedom. It has been said that Sweden is being built strongly when more people come to work. What I'm saying is that Sweden is being built strongly when more people start, run and develop companies. It has been said that entrepreneurship is the foundation of the welfare society. I say that any unnecessary age of regulation placed on the entrepreneur's shoulders is a limitation of the individual's freedom. It has been said that the entrepreneur cannot orient himself on the world market without the security of the state. I say that the state would have no preconditions if it were not supported by the nutritious enterprise. It is true, Mr President, that I am speaking on my own behalf. What else can I do when I have grown up in an entrepreneurial family and followed entrepreneurship since childhood? I also have the privilege of being close to the outside world, with relatives and friends on other parts of the third planet from the sun — the earth. These are places where I see how closely connected the individual's freedom and free enterprise are. Let me be clear here: entrepreneurship is freedom, and for us liberals freedom will always be put first. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals want it to be simple, rewarding and profitable to run a business. For us liberals, entrepreneurship is an expression of the individual's ability to realize his dreams. The positive effects of this will create jobs and growth, which are the basic prerequisites for our social development. It is thus through the ability of companies to grow and create jobs that companies can provide life opportunities for individuals, reduce exclusion and ultimately contribute to increased tax revenues. It is our liberal belief that the state cannot create jobs and businesses, but well the conditions for a good business climate. The starting point for our policy is that it should pay off to run a business and take risks. However, the conditions for the country's entrepreneurs must be adapted to the challenges that entrepreneurs face in the wake of globalisation and digitalisation, as many of you have mentioned today. As the old chairman of the Entrepreneurs at home in Trollhättan, I am proud that four out of five, or even nine out of ten, jobs are created in small businesses. That is why we must first think small-scale in business legislation – for business start-ups and for global expansion. Mr President, I would like to Let me reveal something that the country's entrepreneurs have already revealed. For each crown the government claims to want to invest in the companies, a tenfold increase in the tax is proposed – and one hand knows what the other is doing, to quote the old blue train progg band. It is not enough to talk about an active business policy when, at the same time, it makes it more expensive to hire, stop important infrastructure investments and impose a ban on women who want to take the step towards entrepreneurship. The government promises around but delivers thin. You fill the holes with tax increases. But we are not blind; we have seen what the company-destructive policy of the red-green mess is all about. Mr President, I would like to There is much to do to improve the conditions for Sweden's companies. We in the Liberals want to continue to fight to establish a one-way-in solution worth the name. We want to work with other libertarian and nourishing regulatory simplifications. It is measures that are just as much a matter of survival for the welfare system as a question of freedom for the individual trader. The time taken to set up a business must be reduced, and the issue of financing must be resolved for small companies competing with sharp brains and world-leading ideas. At the same time, it must be easier and more fun to run a business, just as I said a little while ago. I say this partly on my own behalf, but I do so as part of the people's elected representatives in the Swedish Parliament. Without companies, Sweden stops, Mr President.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-646	Mr President, I would like to Some unconcentration has struck Members today, and I apologise for it. There's a lot of things going on. It may not look like that for those who are watching the debate, but a lot is happening in the house today as well. We are now going to talk – and my colleagues have already spoken – about nutrition policy. It is a broad subject on which many aspects, suggestions and ideas can be put. I would like to start with a discussion of entrepreneurship itself. There's no one who doesn't want us to get more companies in Sweden. I think we all want that, but we have some different paths there. When it comes to starting a business today, it happens in very many different ways. We have also seen that there are many different new forms of companies that are popping up and that you cannot really handle tax and regular times. Most companies, however, are set up because someone has seen a need somewhere. It's the most common thing. When it comes to the people who have ideas, it can be anyone, such as you and me. It can also be a typical entrepreneur, with a personality that makes you feel that it is a person who really loves to somehow create new things and be where it happens. Often they are also called serial entrepreneurs after a while, for they start not only one but several companies. There is also a recent expression. This applies to the most successful, large and start-ups, so-called start-ups. For them, too, the name is used to name unicorns when they have a turnover of over $50 million. The question asked at a seminar I hosted here in the Riksdag was about the conditions for obtaining unicorns in Sweden. Do we really have the kind of entrepreneurial climate, and capital, that we could get these really big companies out? The person in question, who was a speaker, replied: Yes, the conditions exist. Because it is not that there is no money. There is capital to expand entrepreneurship – if we only find the match between those who have the money and those who need it. Birger Lahti of the Left Party was also concerned about this. You sometimes need capital, even if it's not about huge sums; it can be small sums in order to develop perhaps the small business you have started. You need something extra, and the banks see no security even though it should be natural for very small sums. So here we have a problem with the supply of capital, I would say. The money's there. There are 4 billion in state venture capital, and we have about 12 billion in private venture capital. We have x million and billions more in research and development money in institutes, colleges, universities and so on. Why, then, is it that more companies are not actually emerging, or that the existing ones are not growing and developing better? I think that is a question we should all ask ourselves, regardless of party. How can we get more companies that also grow over time and dare to hire more? They tend to resemble Swedish business policy or Swedish entrepreneurship to a wine glass. It is a fairly broad foot of a lot of small businesses – single entrepreneurs or businesses with perhaps 5 – 10 employees, possibly 25. Then there is a very narrow foot of medium-sized enterprise that does not grow and develop. They're there, and they're sub-contractors to the big business, which forms the glass itself. How do we broaden the middle part? It's about being able to hire many, many more. This is especially true in the time in which we live, when people come to our country. We need to find new opportunities for companies to hire. There we have a number of challenges in different industries. Women's entrepreneurship has already been mentioned in the debate, and I would really like to emphasise the importance of not losing further momentum. We shall see opportunities for women to dare to start and run companies in traditionally perhaps women-dominated industries. We must not allow discussions on profits and opportunities for surpluses – which must exist in every company, otherwise there is a loss – to hamper women's willingness to start up and run businesses. That is my absolute position on the matter. In addition, we must come up with clear and clear rules on health care and care, not least childcare, and school. In fact, there has been a new form of company since ten years: limited liability companies with SVB, special profit distribution limit. But it's not used. After ten years, there are still only a few hundred such companies in Sweden. In principle, people don't know that the company form exists. If you are to use it, you must actually be informed that it exists. I would also like to say a few words about employment integration social enterprises. I have spoken about it many times in this House. I believe that the pedagogy and methodology that these companies have, that they should be able to work to 100% of their ability, means that we can get people into the labour market and into entrepreneurship that would otherwise not be able to see that opportunity. New business ideas and interests are emerging. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the tourism industry. It is the largest rapidly growing industry in Sweden. I would like to beat a punch so that the tourism industry can grow and develop all over Sweden. Then we must not treat the tourism industry as a different industry than everyone else when we talk about the importance of education and research. It is clear that we must also have it in this industry, in this industry, not least in order to know that we are spending public money properly. Mr President, I would like to I would like to end by calling for reservations 4 and 6.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-659	Mr President, I would like to We have set the target for Sweden to have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The goal we have set can, want and will all of Sweden contribute to. That is an ambitious objective, because it should be when something really is important for real. It is gratifying that things are now moving in the right direction. The Financial Times is currently pointing out the Swedish economy as perhaps the sixth fastest growing economy in the world with growth of 4 percent. SCB's description of Bnp statistics shows that the increase is wide and covers both consumption and production as well as investments and exports. What about the labour market? Well, it also looks better – 80,000 more jobs since the election. According to the Labour Force Survey, employment increased while unemployment, not least youth unemployment, fell. Although it is gratifying with better figures and even more gratifying that more people now have a job to go to, one cannot sit back and think that it is possible to slow down into the future. We need to further develop a business policy that supports companies and strengthens the conditions for more start-ups and for companies to grow and export. There is a need for a strong, innovative, diversified and dynamic industry that has the opportunity to operate throughout Sweden when we continue to solve many of the challenges we face. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg visited my municipality Åre. Åre is Sweden's fourth most enterprising municipality, number one when it comes to young people's entrepreneurship and high up when it comes to women's entrepreneurship. However, the proportion of women starting businesses there is still far too small compared to the proportion of men, just like in the rest of Sweden. Here, the Swedish Agency for Growth's strategy – that the government's business promotion should be developed at national, regional and local level in order for women and men regardless of ethnic background and age to be able to take part in business promotion on equal terms – can make a difference. Åre Municipality is also a role model when it comes to new arrivals in employment. Sixty-five per cent have jobs in two years, and nearly 90 per cent have jobs. The recipe for this entrepreneurship is that one rejoices when others are doing well, for it benefits the whole. Another part of the recipe is collaboration – collaboration between companies, with associations, with the public, with research and not least with enthusiasts. Mr President, I would like to Enterprise policy also depends on interaction with virtually all other policy areas. This is why the Swedish model should be developed and not phased out. Without training, there are not competent employees to hire. Without infrastructure, goods or services cannot be transported. Without functioning broadband, industry or civil society cannot function. Without many more housing and a functioning well-being with accessible preschools, retirement homes, schools and health care, it is also not possible to start a business or find staff. Without regional policy, we do not take advantage of all of Sweden's opportunities to develop. In all these areas, the government is putting forward long-awaited and welcome reforms. This week an investment of 10 billion was announced in municipalities and county councils – 10 permanent billion for the development of the Swedish model and to a Sweden that holds together. In the areas we have to deal with today, much work is being done in the government. I was going to mention a few. One is the important social enterprise. Here, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Growth to develop, together with the Swedish Public Employment Service, programmes to stimulate the creation and growth of more work-inclusive social enterprises. The Ministry of Economic Affairs is working to review how to strengthen social enterprise and social innovation. The work is expected to be completed by the end of May. It will review government efforts, identify bottlenecks and look at capital supply, business advice, information and knowledge development and innovation promotion. Once the proposal comes, it has been developed in synergy and has both a policy of economic policy and a policy of labour market policy. Mr President, I would like to Industry and exports are increasing. It is amazing to see something that a former Prime Minister described a few years ago as basicly gone show that this really is not the case. Industrial output went up by 5 per cent year-on-year in January, service output went up by good 2 per cent and construction output went up by over 18 per cent. It is also the first time in 20 years that Swedish exports gain market share in international markets. But we know that competition is tough when our vehicle cluster is faced with its counterparts in Germany, the United States or China, our IT cluster is set against Silicon Valley and our forest industry and paper clusters are compared with similar environments in Canada and Finland. And we know that only 10% of Swedish companies export. There is enormous potential here for those SMEs that dare and want to take a step into the export market. It is through these companies, which can grow and recruit, that we can have a major employment effect. Now that we finally see that construction production is increasing, it is important not to slow down. Sweden has a neglected need for many, many more homes. Do not let housing remain a brake factor for Sweden's development! And yes, Birger Lahti, it would be fantastic if most homes were built in wood. Mr President, I would like to Another factor contributing to our export revenue is the tourism industry. We can see when comparing ourselves with other countries in Europe that Sweden is moving forward as a destination. The tourism industry is important not only for exports. It ranges from Abisko to Österlen, it is located in rural and urban areas and it is employment intensive. The jobs cannot be moved either – the mountains stand firm, Gotland lies as a gem in the sea and our cities attract many visitors. We have fantastic tourist destinations throughout our country. We have acknowledged good food and fun experiences. But we are competing with the whole world, and we must reach out with what makes Sweden amazing. Therefore, the state owns together with the industry Visit Sweden to market Sweden. The government also invests more money for marketing, continued efforts for destination development, direct lines to large cities in the world, a regulatory simplification work together with SKL and fast track to train in shortage profession chef. The government also sees the importance of major events and has now announced a long-awaited dialogue forum together with the industry and stakeholders for the tourism industry to be seen not only as something pleasant but as an important industry that needs a more coherent policy. Mr President, I would like to Politics is to want and to enable. Now there is an export strategy, new industrialization strategy and a letter of intent with SKL on digital renewal of public Sweden. There will be a national forestry programme, a long-term food strategy and proposals from the Energy Commission and the Parliamentary Rural Committee. There will be a new research and innovation bill, an entrepreneurship inquiry, an investigation about ownership changes in companies and a bill about state venture capital and more. We see that the government develops the Swedish model and invests in education and skills that every company I meet demands. We see that the collaboration between industry, research, politics and society in general is increasing. And we see that the construction of society is definitely not finished. Sweden's competitiveness depends on a job policy that allows each region to seize and develop its strengths, but at the same time points out the challenges that are common to Sweden as a country and where we need to gather strength at national level. Mr President, I would like to There is much that our parties agree on in the Committee on Economic Affairs' report on what needs to be done for improved business. I think that's a strength. I can see that many of the motionaries are making demands on areas where the government is already working, and I can also see that despite the reservations, several parties have lower levels of ambition in terms of resources for our committee area. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-690	Mr President, I would like to Much in Sweden works very well, but a lot can get better. AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg described a lot of the positive developments that are taking place. Then let us remember that we have had eight years of alliance rule and nine years of alliance budget. We have had the current budget for a couple of three months. We will also consider that many companies are affected by international economic activity, exchange rates and the like. However, I would like to focus on this with the new exclusion. We see a development in which for some people in Sweden it works very well to get the first important job and take the step into the labour market. They have completed the training and perhaps have experience and contacts. For others, however, it is extremely difficult. They may not have completed upper secondary school, come to Sweden without language skills and have very little education or none at all. At the same time, we see a labour market with few simple jobs. There will be a mismatch in this. It is a great responsibility politically to deal with this in order not to repeat the same mistakes that Sweden has made historically. We know that it has taken an average of seven or eight years for about half of those who have come from other countries to enter the labour market. It can be noted that the government makes it more expensive to hire and less profitable to work, and it has decided on reforms that reduce the opportunities of individual entrepreneurs. I am thinking, for example, of the deterioration of the RUT and ROT deductions and the fact that the rules on public procurement currently being prepared make it more difficult for smaller companies. For example, it pushes away entrepreneurship in the welfare sector. I therefore wonder: why do you face a more challenging exclusion by making it less profitable to work and more expensive to hire and reduce for companies?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-695	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! I am glad that it is not just you and I in this House, as it was at first, when I heard your speech. I think the Moderates are playing with words. There is talk of a new alienation and of the new Moderates. You take full credit because Sweden is doing well, but you do not take responsibility for what you call the new exclusion. It feels strange to me. Sweden is doing better now than it did during the eight years when the Moderates were in power. There was a need to make changes to the policy pursued. There was a need to invest more in education, as this government really does. There was a need to invest more in infrastructure, which we really do. Many new initiatives were needed in new areas to enable companies to grow and employ. I don't understand what it is about the Moderates and collective agreements, because I guess that's what you wanted to do. What is wrong with competition neutrality between companies? It is remarkable that the Moderates want to see less security and dumped wages. Not long ago, the service was procured here in Stockholm. There the wages had been dumped at $2.50, and the allowance for cleaners was $1.50 an hour. I think this is serious. I think the social partners should take responsibility. It has served Sweden well. What's your answer to this, Lars Helmered? How low wages should there be in the Swedish labour market? Is 11 SEK okay for a salary in today's Sweden, or are we really going to pass legislation on lower salaries here in Parliament?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-700	Mr President, I would like to It feels like Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg is trying to mix the cards away. Of course, there should be order on the Swedish labour market. Today's rules for the Public Procurement Act allow a municipality or county council to simply remove a direct unserious offer if it cannot be considered reasonable conditions in the whole. Then that's where it breaks. It is wrong if she tries to imply that we or others are trying to push down wages when, on the contrary, it is a matter of decent conditions. What I point out in the example is that one has a good intention but that the effect is that very many companies that do not have collective agreements but have healthy working conditions are pushed away. They do not get the opportunity to deliver their services to municipalities and county councils. If you add to this the changes that you want to make to the representation of companies and that you want to make it more difficult and reduce RUT and ROT deductions, it will be a signal to the companies. It will be the same if you push away welfare business. We see that it has the effect that business start-ups have fallen in that sector as a direct effect of what the government is doing. There will be fewer companies and job opportunities. If the government wants to make it more expensive to hire and less profitable to work, the driving forces will deteriorate. What are the major challenges for Sweden over time? It's a growing alienation. We see that there are many people who come here for various reasons. We know that Sweden has historically been too bad at giving people an opportunity to enter the labour market. If we do not get hold of this, we will see a strongly growing exclusion. I wonder if it can make it easier for young or foreign-born people who do not have experience or full skills to enter the labour market and get their first job if, as the Social Democrats, they want to make it less profitable to work and more expensive to hire? There are various reforms that are hitting the opportunities of entrepreneurs directly.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-705	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered! As far as representation is concerned, tax legislation is not really in line with current EU law. Now the government is adapting this. But you and I won't interfere in how much a company represents. On the other hand, can we not have opinions on how much we other taxpayers should pay for it? I think it is reasonable that you and I can have an opinion on whether the bill should affect us taxpayers or whether companies can represent as much as they want. This, with collective agreements or, as it says, conditions similar to collective agreements, is something that the Swedish governments have ignored for a very long time, although it is known that this has led to social dumping. When Stockholm procures transport service and taxi drivers receive 27 SEK or when Stockholm procures cleaning and the compensation is 11 SEK in the hour n– then you really have your new alienation, Lars Helmered! We can do something about this. It is SEK 600 billion that the public procures for each year. Of course, it should be competitively neutral between companies, and of course there should be reasonable conditions for employees.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-708	Mr President, I would like to It was very exciting that Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg put forward both in the line and in the speech, but because of the short time I had to choose a subject. About two weeks ago, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg and I, in a change of line, talked about the feminist government and the focus on women's entrepreneurship. I didn't think I got a good answer then, so I hope I can get better answers today. When, as you now do, they call themselves a feminist government, they commit it. This means something, not least in terms of gender equality and women's entrepreneurship. At the same time, we see that the start-up of women has fallen dramatically. In addition, you choose to halve RUT even though you know that many women start companies in that area. Many people get their first job in the RUT sector. In addition, undeclared work has been greatly reduced thanks to RUT. Yet you choose to halve this. As a cream on the cake, you're adding an investigation into welfare gains. These are areas where women work and run businesses. There are huge numbers of small businesses run by women. You have an eagerness to frame some of the larger ones who go with money to tax havens. But the majority of those you are squeezing about this, if I may say so, are actually small businesses that are often run by women. My question is: in what way does it go with the ambitions of the feminist government to improve the opportunities for more women to start up and run businesses?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-713	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl! I have to say that I am very proud that we have a feminist government which not only in this area but in all areas ensures that the chances and opportunities of women and men look more equal than they have done in the past. We should say nothing else in this House about it but that we think it is fantastically good. It's about women's wages. It's about everything else. It is about how we invest in preschool and how we invest in elderly care, where we know that many women actually do a great unpaid job. They may not be able to start a business either. It's about equality. It's not always entirely equal just because you're a female entrepreneur, if you know what I mean. It's about what it looks like under the company. But women's entrepreneurship is incredibly important. I agree with you. I can look at my municipality Åre. You may not be able to see women who are entrepreneurs in exactly the professions you describe, the traditional ones. But we have a very high proportion of female entrepreneurship. This may be because we have an enterprise in the whole municipality that makes women dare to invest and dare to take on themselves, just like men. I also spoke in my speech about the mission we have given to the Swedish Agency for Growth. One should look at how to promote women's and men's entrepreneurship in an equal way. Ethnic background should not make any difference either. We can see that it has not worked. Therefore, something must be done about it.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-717	Mr President, I would like to Yes, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg says it has not worked. We can take the area of women's entrepreneurship. The number of enterprise start-ups increased between 2006 and 2012. Every year, under the leadership of Maud Olofsson and the rest of the alliance government, they invested SEK 100 million in targeted efforts, i.e. to women's entrepreneurship. At that time, 50 000 more new businesses were created among women. Then you flagged for an inquiry into welfare gains. At the same time, women's start-ups declined. I personally don't think it's a coincidence. There are also studies showing this. Of course, you can be proud to have a feminist government, but then you also have to deliver. In December, as I said earlier, the non-profit organisation Winnet, which has 8 000 members all over the country, received short notice information from rural minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht that you will no longer receive 36 million SEK per year, even though you work at grassroots level and have worked for 15 years in a very good way in many places. No, that money should instead go to regional federations and county boards, what AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg refers to. I cannot understand for my life how it will be better to build a whole new organization and hijack another organisation with non-profit powers that has existed for 15 years and which consists of 8,000 members – most of them women – all over the country. It's grass roots. How can you say that it will be better for women's entrepreneurship when you hijack the organisation of these women at their ankles? I'd like to hear that. What are you going to do in the new organization that is so much better than what Winnet did and that in any way is an advantage compared to the work that Winnet has accomplished? I'm very interested in knowing that. What is this revolutionary that you're about to accomplish now?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-721	Mr President, I would like to I was asked this question two weeks ago, but we'll take it again. It has been investigated, and it has turned out that Winnet has gone at its best where you have been regionally anchored in a very strong way. For me, it is never wrong to dare to release money regionally. I always believe that we know better regionally when it comes to the conditions for our working life. You can also invest regionally in Winnet if that's what you see. You were talking about exports, Helena Lindahl. There will be regional export centres. It's not in your budget, if I say so. One should be in Västerbotten. For our next debate, think about what you want to say to the companies in Västerbotten. No, you probably don't need this help, says the Center Party.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-724	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that I am delighted on behalf of work-inclusive social enterprises when they are mentioned by someone other than me in this House. I am a little curious about AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg's attitude to these questions. There will certainly be an effort on those companies. Already in 2010, the alliance government made an effort. It was the Swedish Agency for Growth, SKL, Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan that jointly received funds to make an action plan and an information effort around ASF. Then I would like to ask Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg: How could the new initiative be a continuation of the previous one? What exactly does AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg see as the most important issues for work integration social enterprises when it comes to their development? It is about them being able to grow more, but also about those who already exist being able to grow.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-727	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla, for the question! You really are the face of the social economy, I think, in Parliament. The Ministry of Industry has now appointed an investigator with whom I have great confidence, namely Lars Bryntesson. I know that many share this view of his competence in this area. He will look at what I said in my speech, at the bottlenecks that exist, at the supply of capital, at business advice, at the development of information and knowledge, and at the promotion of innovation. The Government also commissions the Swedish Agency for Growth to develop, together with the Swedish Public Employment Service, a programme to stimulate more work integration companies. I very much hope with all my heart that it will lead to new proposals that clearly interact between labour market policy and industrial policy. It is as Penilla Gunther says: Here you can work 100 percent of your ability, and it is incredibly important. This is an area that we should all give higher priority.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-731	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little curious. My colleague from the Center Party spoke about the RUT deduction and how it has affected. I wonder if AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg is aware of how the halved RUT deduction has hit the ASF and in which sectors these 300-350 companies are today. It is not easy to have been long-term unemployed or on sick leave or to have otherwise been outside the labour market. There may sometimes be social reasons that have led to entry into this type of company. We can see that many have experienced a renaissance in their own lives precisely because one feels that one has an influence over one's own existence, perhaps for the first time in one's life. You are allowed to influence your duties and, not least, feel that you are a part of something larger. Here and in the rest of society we are so used to always being expected to be in place and do our part, but many people have not felt that joy and appreciation from others. It is therefore clear that I am curious about the attitude of the Social Democrats towards this. I attended the meeting at the Ministry of Industry and know Lars Bryntesson well, but I guess the Social Democrats themselves have an attitude towards and hopefully a knowledge of ASF and where the needs lie. I am also a little curious about this, not least because of the reduction in the RUT deduction, which has affected almost 100 of these companies.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-735	Mr President, I would like to As I said, Lars Bryntesson is now investigating this for the government. Even Penilla will have to wait for that investigation, just like me. However, it comes very quickly – I think it is already at the end of April or May. It wouldn't take long, because it's something that needs to be done. Now that we have seen unemployment and youth unemployment falling, it obviously needs to fall in this area too. You and me, we're gonna have to stick together. Perhaps we are fortunate enough to debate the issue at a later date once there has been a proposal.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-737	Mr President, I would like to A thriving business sector is a prerequisite for Sweden's development and well-being. It is therefore important that the government gives industry the tools to grow and operate. I am convinced that the proposals put forward by the government create great opportunities for development and confidence in the future. Research and innovation, export strategy, state and capital, state risk capital and food strategy are examples of this. It is no secret that SMEs are the key to new jobs. Sweden needs a policy that makes it easier for companies to grow and develop. Therefore, the government is now proposing such a high level of support so that more entrepreneurs will take the step fully and dare to hire. Here, the Government proposes that individual traders who have not had an employee in 2016 and who employ a person after 31 March of this year do not have to pay an employer's contribution in addition to the old-age pension contribution on the employee's remuneration during the first 12 months, in order to facilitate entering as an employer and thus also get a co-worker. It's lonely working alone. We want to make it easier for those who want to start a business, regardless of gender, ethnic background and age. This will lead to more start-ups, more jobs being created, unemployment falling and Swedish competitiveness being strengthened in the long term. Without people's will, courage and imagination, no new companies are set up. It is extremely important that everyone's entrepreneurship is exploited and captured. A diversity of companies and entrepreneurs is important for business competitiveness, innovation and sustainability. Sweden faces an opportunity of historical dimensions. Never before have so many come to our country to build their future. Among these are people who have extensive knowledge and experience of many different professions, and some of them have experience in running companies, managing employees and developing business models. The Green Party proposed a few weeks ago that we set up a fast track for newly arrived entrepreneurs, a proposal well received by various professional organisations. Many entrepreneurs feel that the bureaucracy is difficult to navigate and that the number of forms to complete is infinite. The fact that the government has now entered into an agreement with SKL on digital renewal of public Sweden, where one of the priority areas is to simplify for companies through, among other things, reduced bureaucracy and increased opportunities for self-service, is another concrete step to facilitate for established entrepreneurs and new entrepreneurs. Initially, the collaboration with SKL has focused on the restaurant industry, a particularly regulatory sector that requires extensive contacts with authorities and municipalities. The aim is to be able to offer the majority of all restaurant entrepreneurs digital services as early as next year to start and run their business. The spring budget will be presented next week, and there is an additional initiative for so-called microproducers. The abolition of VAT for those who turnover a maximum of 30 000 SEK per year benefits, among others, those who want to put solar cells on the roof or sell honey from their bees, like me, for example. Another type of enterprise is what is called social enterprise. It aims to integrate people who, for various reasons, find it difficult to enter the labour market, such as entrepreneurs or workers. Social enterprises create employee participation through ownership, employment or other forms of contract, and profits are mainly reinvested in the business. This type of entrepreneurship is of great importance to our society, not least now. It is a priority area, and the Government has decided to commission the Swedish Agency for Growth, in collaboration with the Swedish Public Employment Service, to draw up and implement a national programme of measures that stimulate the creation and growth of more work-integrated social enterprises. Mr President, I would like to SMEs also need support to enter the export market. The government has now decided to establish regional export centres, initially in six counties: Skåne, Västra Götaland, Kronoberg, Östergötland, Dalarna and Västerbotten. The aim shall be to allow each company to contact the right person in the right organisation with its question or problem within a working day, according to the principle of a door in. At the regional export centres, companies will be offered support in their internationalisation or export efforts, and export centres will help companies find the right place among public actors that provide support for business development and internationalisation in various ways. In each regional export centre, the regional development manager and the regional representation of Almi, Enterprise Europe Network, Business Sweden, the Export Credit Board, the Swedish Growth Agency and many others will be able to be present and contribute to simplification. Halting environmental pollution and reducing climate emissions are among the most important tasks ahead of us. Demand for green technologies is increasing globally, partly due to an increased awareness of the impact of production and consumption on the environment and climate. With new, green technologies, it is possible not only to reduce our environmental impact but also to create new resources to develop our welfare society. The Government has set up a National Innovation Council to serve as a forum for ongoing exchanges between the government, industry, the scientific community and the social partners, in order to strengthen innovation. The Council shall identify challenges and areas of interaction of strategic importance for the development of innovation and competitiveness. It is not by chance that the environment and climate are one of these strategic areas. Last Sunday when I was at Hötorget there was a huge flea market there with lively commerce, and so it is in many places in Sweden. It's amazing that flea markets and websites that deal with used ones just explode. Facilitating those with knowledge and experience of craft professions, such as tailors, shoemakers and bicycle makers, will also contribute to increased entrepreneurship and to more people at work. The environment will gain with re-use and with increased understanding of the environmental impact of wear and tear behaviour. Repairing and harnessing saves both production costs and raw materials, resulting in less emissions. It is good for those who sell the service, good for the environment, good for all of us. I call for the proposal of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-756	Mr President, I would like to The report we are debating today includes the conditions for industry, and indeed the conditions for industry as a whole. Part of what we often debate in the committee we belong to is energy policy, which is important not least for the conditions of industry. In recent times, if known to most people, nuclear power has had major financial difficulties, which has put many nuclear power plants at risk of being shut down prematurely. This, of course, creates great concern for the business community, but ultimately also for many of Sweden's workers. The issue is being discussed rather diligently, and things are happening. In any case, the government has now stated that it intends to reform the taxation of nuclear energy, the so-called 'power tax', and to reduce it, remove it or something similar. Hence my question: Do business and workers dare to trust that the Green Party is doing what they can in government, simply doing what it takes to save Swedish nuclear power?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-760	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I think that was one of the most interesting questions I've ever had. As far as nuclear power is concerned, surely our main position is not to save it, and it probably never has been. For us, nuclear power is one of the things we are most worried about. We're worried about the people who are going to break uranium. What affects the people who break uranium hardly ever comes up in the debate. I wouldn't want my daughter to break uranium, and if you have or will have any children, I don't think you'd want them to break uranium. In addition, we have a problem with managing the storage of waste – it is not solved. We live in a limbo and hope that someone in the future, perhaps, will be able to solve that problem so that we do not have to suffer from radiation diseases. I'm never gonna be a nuclear hugger.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-764	Mr President, I would like to In any case, it is interesting, and I did not think, when this government took office, that the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats, would pursue some policy of being confronted with some kind of reality. It's one thing to be an idealist and have a lot of nice, beautiful visions about things. But then comes a cress reality. The reality at the moment is that nuclear power is suffering from huge economic difficulties – that is a fact. They're under lockdown threat. It has inexorably great consequences. As we stand here discussing the business environment, we cannot ignore the fact that it is not possible to remove our important base power and believe that society is rolling as usual. It is therefore understandable that once the Green Party is in a strong position in government, it is actually allowed to take such decisions too – it is not surprising. In any case, I hope that the Green Party will contribute to constructive solutions so that our companies and industries will not have to close down in Sweden.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-768	Mr President, I would like to For us, it is absolutely an important thing to ensure that our factories and what keeps the nation going will not close down. You're talking about big consequences. Yeah, maybe it can. But I'm thinking about Fukushima. There were indeed major consequences. People were allowed to move from their homes and have not been able to move back. Farmers try to grow vegetables, but no one wants to buy them. Then can really talk about that you have bet on something that has become terrible. You can also think of PCBs, DDT, hormoslyr and everything else where we have thought that with a quick fix we could solve a problem but then it has come as a lice in the neck. I think we should be very careful about nuclear power.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-772	Mr President, I would like to In her speech, Elisabet Knutsson described, among other things, the issue of exports and trade opportunities, and that was a little something I was going to take on board. Sweden is an elongated, large country that is highly trade-dependent. Very common to many Swedish companies is that they sell products and services in some other country, in the immediate vicinity or a little further away, and then need to transport things, not infrequently via my hometown Gothenburg out through Scandinavia's largest port and further out into the world. Usually it is a combination of different modes of transport. It can be both truck and train and then out on a ship somewhere in the world. However, even if the Swedish railways or ports and inland shipping in Sweden were to be expanded vigorously, truck traffic is crucial for the Swedish industry and not least for the Swedish industry, for example the forest industry, which must get goods out of the forest. We can say, Mr President, that the Green Party's view on these issues is that we should have no longer truck transport but shorter truck transport. They work in the government with an investigation about a so-called truck tax or mileage tax, a tax from a distance that someone pays, reasonably the company and then the customers, that is, something that with surgical precision lands on companies outside the country's major cities. At the same time, we see technological development with new fuels and other things that reduce climate impact. Mr President, I would like to Then I wonder what makes the Green Party so categorically opposed to trucks and want shorter trucks and truck taxes instead of protecting entrepreneurship outside the country's major cities?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-778	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Generally speaking, we are not opposed to goods being transported on the road. Some things have to be transported on the way. In particular, given that our rail system looks as it does, we have to do so, because maintenance has been neglected for so long. Why don't we want more vehicles? I think about myself when I'm driving. Do I want to overtake a truck that's 30 meters long? No, I realise that there are few roads where it is possible to do so, especially where these heavy goods vehicles need to drive. We must also bear in mind that if we have such heavy vehicles we will have a huge increase in wear and tear on our roads. Instead, in order to avoid excessive wear and tear, you can use rail and boat over the long distances. Then you get less wear and a more well-targeted transport system where you have nodes. Smaller trucks can then transport goods to specific places. The Kilometer tax is interesting. We pay mileage taxes in all the other countries we drive in. All I have to do is drive over to Germany, and I'll have to pay mileage tax. The companies that come here from other countries and drive on our roads run for free. Is it right that lorries from other countries should be able to drive for free here when we have to pay to drive in other countries? We need to get this money in.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-782	Mr President, I would like to That might sound like a rather detailed question. I am referring to it precisely because for many companies it is precisely the kind of detailed issues that are commonly referred to in everyday and fluffy speeches as issues of competitiveness and opportunities to stand up to competition and so on. In the forest industry there has been a project called the ETT project, or a stack of other projects. There you have looked at longer truck traffic to get more logs on the log car. It was noted that transport's economy improved and greenhouse gas emissions decreased by about 20%. That's where you get the practical meaning. In the same way, it is with other types of truck transport, that is, this affects many Swedish companies and their opportunities. We are a small country, we are highly trade-dependent, we have a small internal market of our own and we have to sell to other countries to simply maintain companies that provide jobs in Sweden. Then we have a logistics disadvantage, a transport disadvantage, because we have to transport our goods to other countries. Transport, costs and environmental aspects will then be a bit important. For me, it is important not to see any contradiction between different modes of transport, but to combine and cooperate. Mr President, I would like to What I object to a little bit is that the Environmental Party with surgical precision is getting into the fact that this particular truck transport is wrong. When we see that you can get both economic and environmental benefits for the business community, for example for the forest industry, with longer truck transport, the Green Party is therefore against this. Examples can be highlighted with other countries with regard to the mileage tax. But the fact is that it hits pretty hard, especially against the Swedish countryside and against companies outside the country's major cities. I therefore wonder what is causing you to stray into this area and, with such surgical precision, want to strike at entrepreneurship and industry in outside the country's major cities.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-790	Mr President, I would like to Our idea is that such large vehicles on our roads are not very safe. It's not safe from the traffic point of view, it's hard on the roads and it's better that these long transports you're talking about, Lars Helmered, go by rail. Let us renovate the railway, drive the timber to the nearest railway junction, unload it there and let the transport pass through Sweden on rails and not push back our roads, which are needed for other transports.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-791	Mr President, I would like to The government says it invests in companies throughout the country. At the same time, it is announced that it wants to raise taxes on the country's entrepreneurs by 27 000 million. We heard previously Elisabet Knutsson's colleague Anna-Caren Sätherberg from S talk about the major effort that the government and Mikael Damberg are now making on the export strategy with 300 million per year out of the mandate. That's good, but it's not enough. You cannot cut the Swedish entrepreneurs at the foot bumps with increased taxes of 27 billion and at the same time claim to protect the Swedish companies. What do you have to export if the companies go bankrupt? My question to you, Elisabet Knutsson, is: In what way is this increase in taxes by 27 000 million an offensive effort on Swedish business?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-794	Mr President, I would like to Not only do we increase taxes, but we also redistribute money. It adds money elsewhere. You don't just sweep something away. Among other things, these export centres and new jobs for individual entrepreneurs, as well as many other things that will also support companies. For example, the reduction in employers' contributions for young people has been removed and we are doing other things for this money. Much of this money has been redistributed to things to which we believe it is better to allocate resources.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-796	Mr President, I would like to Elisabet Knutsson says that money is being added elsewhere. But there is no way in the world that the efforts you are now making on entrepreneurship will compensate for 27 000 million. With regard to the reduction in employers' contributions for young people, representatives of government parties are constantly being heard to say that this reduction in employers' contributions for young people was removed because it was ineffective. Then I wonder: if it was so ineffective, how could it be that you went out and said that you would compensate the public sector by 3 billion because you would increase employers' contributions for young people? Then you must have compensated for some reason, right? Then it can hardly be true that the reduction was ineffective. When my mother, like so many other women, started working in elderly care in the 70s and 80s, they had an employer to choose, namely the public sector. For them, this has ultimately meant low wages and low pensions, and they have not been able to go to any other employer in that particular area. When the previous government opened up the possibilities for users to choose public or private-run care, i.e. LOV, healthcare professionals also had more employers to choose from. In addition, many women chose to set up businesses in the area. As I said earlier in a replica shift, I understand that your eagerness to investigate profits in welfare has been about squeezing large companies that are tax planning and disappearing with tax money into tax havens. But the problem is that most of these companies are small and that most are run by women, and they will suffer from this. Is this nothing that concerns you as a feminist government?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-801	Mr President, I would like to The fact that people have low wages and low pensions is something that really concerns me. It worries me that you, Helena Lindahl, make it sound like just because there have been more entrepreneurs in this area, everyone will get higher salaries and higher pensions. I don't really believe that. Many entrepreneurs in that sector can also cause great concern. I listened to comedian Sissela Kyle when she told me about her mother. Her mother had a catalogue of 120 entrepreneurs to choose from. She would make a good choice so that she would receive a steady home service. How can a person at that age be able to choose between so many different entrepreneurs? Who guarantees the credibility of a name? I am not at all against home care entrepreneurs, but I believe that every company must carry itself. I guess that's the way it is for us, too. I'm a female entrepreneur myself. You have to get your business started so it can carry itself. This also applies to those companies.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-806	Mr President, I would like to My party partner Anna-Caren Sätherberg, as well as my coalition partner Elisabet Knutsson from the Environmental Party, have both well presented the government's industrial policy. Now that the area is up for treatment, I would also like to take this opportunity to draw the light on a few areas. The Government has a target of Sweden having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. It is a goal that is binding, but it is also a goal that gives hope. This is a government that takes the jobs, and hence the companies – both large and small – seriously. I would therefore like to mention the social enterprises, which some may dismiss as a poor part of economic policy, but which actually contain great potential. This applies not least to what they mean, that people who otherwise risk becoming long-term unemployed get into work and are given the opportunity to contribute to 100% of their capacity. It is big and important in an economy where every hour worked is needed and where jobs must be constantly in focus. It therefore makes me very proud that the government, through the Ministry of Enterprise and Industry, is working on identifying bottlenecks and making proposals for redeploying support and responsibility, and that the procurement framework is being revised to make it easier for social enterprises to compete. This is smart, solidarity-based business policy! Mr President, I would like to Sweden has not grown strong by chance but as a result of enterprising and competent people who have started businesses, as well as enterprising and competent people who have taken up employment in the companies in question. Nor is it unimportant that Sweden has been and still is a strong voice for free and fair trade and that both export and industrialisation are and remain priority areas. More companies will start, but the existing ones will also want to grow. This applies not least to the smallest. I myself come from Gotland. It is Sweden's largest small business district in terms of population and also the county where entrepreneurs are most positive about the future. With this in mind, the reform launched by the government the other week is particularly important, namely the creation of a so-called "Vax-aid" which means that, at the time of his first employment, the one-man entrepreneur only makes pension payments during the first 12 months of the new employee's employment in the company. Most likely, many of you, like me, often meet small businessmen who are so eager but do not quite dare to take the step of hiring. It's a big step. Let's be clear about that. That is why this reform is welcome in order to strengthen our small businesses and, of course, also for jobs. Another area that small businesses often highlight to me is security issues. Not least, it becomes clear in the encounter with younger small entrepreneurs, who often wonder why their opportunities are so limited when they become parents. Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll has initiated a review of the conditions of parental insurance, precisely to make it available to more people. Of course, entrepreneurs should also be able to start a family! It is also important from the point of view of equality. Mr President, I would like to In a debate like this, it is important and impossible for me not to touch on a dear subject, namely order and order of the labour market. For many of the entrepreneurs I meet, it is a matter of course, but not for everyone. For some, such as those in one-man companies, collective agreements are not even applicable. However, collective agreements are a good thing for the masses of both workers and companies. They still live in the Swedish model. The collective agreements have served Sweden well and have made us strong together.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-815	Mr President, I would like to We need culture. It gives us roots to our history, meaning in the present, visions for the future and opportunities to be part of a context. It is this holistic approach that underpins Christian Democratic cultural policy. The essence and vitality of cultural expression cannot be weighed and measured in money and quantity, but it affects us and we are part of it throughout our lives. In the words I have just mentioned, I also began my earlier speech on cultural heritage, and it is worth repeating for us Christian Democrats. It is important to maintain a strong and vibrant cultural life in Sweden, and that is why it is of great importance how we design the conditions for cultural creators' work in their diversity of forms. We Christian Democrats want to make it easier for them because they enrich and create added value for our society. There is concern today that the status of reading is falling, that we are getting into a situation with fewer common points of reference and thus find it more difficult to understand and relate to each other. Such a society is in danger of being torn apart in the long term, even if the economic status is good. Therefore, in order to promote reading, we Christian Democrats want a literary classic list that all schoolchildren will be able to access during their schooling. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention something about the importance of libraries. They are important cultural intermediaries and appreciated by the public. Many libraries have also developed in recent years into well-visited media centres where, in addition to the traditional activities of books and journals in paper format, e-books are also available. In addition, lectures, poetry evenings and other cultural events are held in many places. This especially enriches many smaller towns. There are also good examples of bookshops starting library activities when municipal activities have been closed down. I have heard of an example of this in Hällefors. That is why we Christian Democrats believe that it is important to develop the possibilities for non-municipal actors to be able to run library activities. With this, I agree with all the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I choose to apply for reservation 2 concerning the workings of libraries.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-821	Mr President, I would like to We are in this House today to discuss the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Culture. In the report we refer to motions from the general period of exercise, which include library issues, language issues and literature issues, but also the conditions for cultural creators. During my time in the speaker's chair today, I will focus solely on the latter, namely the conditions of cultural creators, this when my fantastic colleague, Ida Karkiainen, comes up later in the debate and then will discuss his area of responsibility, which is the language issue. When, about a year ago, I stood here in the speaker's chair to discuss the conditions of the creators of culture, I thought it important to highlight the national cultural policy objectives. In the objectives we can read about how culture should be a dynamic, challenging and untying force based on freedom of expression. I also mentioned that today's cultural policy also aims to ensure that everyone has an opportunity to participate in cultural life and that creativity, diversity and artistic quality should shape the development of society. I can admit that much of my focus today is on focusing on the cultural heritage proposal that will come this autumn to make our cultural heritage accessible and open, among other things. We Social Democrats believe that it is by opening the doors to our cultural heritage and history that we can look to the future. Who, then, do we owe the cultural heritage we have today? Well, of course, the culture makers of the past. And who, then, will future generations thank in the future? Well, hopefully the cultural creators who are operating today, and then we must give them the opportunity and the opportunity to operate. Of course, today's debate is not about giving today's cultural creators an opportunity to become part of history. Instead, it is a question of giving them a chance to live off their artistry today, and it is a question of how we as politicians can work to make art and culture more accessible to everyone, because we give the creators of culture an opportunity to work will also allow more people to take part in what is created. It also provides an opportunity to work together with them through creative creation. Mr President, I would like to It is no secret that many of today's cultural workers are having a very tough time. Many artists find themselves in a vulnerable and problematic situation, a situation that both we Social Democrats and the government are aware of. Artists have, in many comparisons with other professions, a much tougher and more precarious labour market and also low wages, despite the fact that they often have higher education. Both as a social democrat and as a cultural politician, I think it is important to get a comprehensive picture of how artists and cultural creators can live on their work. What these people are asking for is, of course, a safer labour market with greater access and job opportunities. However, it is also a question of being able, as a cultural creator, to feel secure with their professional choices through, for example, the possibility of social security, which today often falls outside the scope. This requires several committees to work together to make it possible, as this is not something we can resolve ourselves in the Committee on Culture. But it is we who must take the initiative. It is we who must own and raise these issues, and we do so in a number of the motions we are dealing with today. Mr President, I would like to However, the government, and especially the Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke, has already highlighted that the field of visual arts and design is a neglected area which must be given priority. The government sees the problem facing today's cultural creators. The government understands them and knows that we need to raise these issues. Among other things, this became clear in a question answer on 9 March this year where Alice Bah Kuhnke announced that one of the government's cultural policy priorities is to create better conditions for artists and that several issues related to the field of visual arts and design are being prepared in the Government Office. The important thing, however, is to remember that this is not something we can easily solve. We must not make simple policy out of this. We must not negligently come up with simple and half-assisted solutions. It requires planning and thinking to avoid a mockery of the artists and cultural creators who work today. Mr President, I would like to So what I'm trying to say is that the work is already in progress. In this way, we should not precede the work of the government in this area, and that is one of the reasons why we do not support any reservations today. Of course, having an active cultural policy debate on these issues makes a difference. That is what made it possible for us to revise and extend the MU agreement, that is what made the 1% rule once a reality, and that is what makes us now look at how the cultural cooperation model can more clearly lift up our cultural creators and artists. Professional artists should be able to live off their artistic and cultural activities, for example because artistic creativity and quality are an important part of an equal society and an important building block in our development. We Social Democrats see visual art as an important part of society and in public space. I look forward to following the work of the government, while at the same time working towards a continued active and offensive cultural policy debate to move these issues forward. Mr President, I would therefore like to support the proposal in the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media7 and reject all reservations.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-836	Mr President, I would like to In international comparisons made of innovation climates and conditions for the creative industries, Sweden is mostly high up, often even at the top. Therefore, I have tried to find similar studies broken down to the conditions of artists, but unfortunately I have not found so many good such international comparisons. However, a comparison was made in the UK a few years ago by specifically female artists' conditions, and even there topped Sweden. Female artists are best placed to work in Sweden, according to the survey. Of course, we should not shift too much into this type of research, but we can still note that not everything in Sweden can be night black when it comes to artists' conditions. Seen also how Swedish artists succeed internationally, there is a lot to be proud of. We all know about Swedish music. But also Swedish authors succeed exceptionally well internationally, not least Swedish detective writers. Swedish visual artists also perform internationally far beyond what would actually be justified by our population. There's a lot to be proud of. What, then, is required for us to have good conditions for artistic creation? Yes, a fundamental factor, of course, is that we have a well-functioning education system; available courses with adequate content. Another extremely important factor, of course, is that it is reasonable economic conditions, even for new rather unestablished artists, so that one can begin one's artistic creation. In addition, I would like to add the factor that there is a very permissive view of artistic creation so that as an artist you feel free to break new paths, develop art and find new genres and influences. Here I am very concerned by some of the political debate that is taking place, a debate that is often rather restrictive and wants to limit the conditions of contemporary artists. I am thinking not least of the debate we had on Culture's issues here in Parliament just a few weeks ago. While much is good, there are at the same time some things that are less good and problems that we need to address. One concrete example that we highlight in the report is the worrying development of children's and young people's interest in literature, the interest in reading. Some parties here propose a classic list as a model to stimulate children's and young people's reading. I would like to say that this is quite the wrong idea. Rather, it risks being counterproductive. Here, Eva Wallin from the Christian Democrats, who just spoke warmly for the proposal, can gladly develop how it could stimulate children's and young people's reading. Of course, it is good in itself to reissue classical literature, and of course literature history teaching in school should include extensive reading of classics and groundbreaking literary works. However, when it comes to stimulating children's and young people's reading, we need to take on board what children and young people actually want to read. If the child wants to read Harry Potter, it's Harry Potter we're going to put in the hands of it and not a work listed on a classic list. Our libraries are therefore central to stimulating the interest of children and young people and to providing the books that children and young people want to read. I look forward to the national strategy for libraries currently under investigation. Without prejudging the results of the investigation, I am already going to point out some key areas in which we need to move forward positions. One such area is the school libraries. If we want to ensure that all children and young people, regardless of choice of school, have access to a good and functioning school library, we must act politically. Another instrument to develop is access to e-books. It would be good to put in place a national system for borrowing e-books. It would make much literature available to children and young people. A national library card for e-books should also be able to be used in the physical libraries. At the other end of the library policy, we have the remuneration of the authors. Here, the Red-Green Government has already acted and increased the library compensation. I hope that in the future we will be able to have strengthened state funds for libraries in general, not least to counteract the negative developments we had during the year of the Alliance's government when one sixth of all library branches in the country were closed. Of course, it has made access to books more difficult for many children and young people. Another national action plan under preparation concerns the visual arts and the conditions for visual artists. The situation of visual artists stands out; it is the group of artists in Sweden that has the most difficult economic situation. Several measures are therefore needed here. I myself have raised a motion about a visual arts fund similar to that in Norway where revenue from secondary sales of older art goes to fund contemporary artists' activities. The funding of visual arts differs in many ways from that of other artists in that the economic value of art often increases much after the artist's death. Therefore, there is something sympathetic in the idea of having an equalization across generational boundaries. If I were a visual artist, which I certainly am not, then I could finance my activities through the proceeds of secondary sales of the old masters' works of art and then, after my death, be involved in financing the contemporary artists of the future. Other important pieces of the puzzle in a national art strategy are to ensure that the resale right is always applied and that the MU agreement is applied more widely. I am surprised that the Christian Democrats have a reservation aimed at the other way as soon as possible: to reduce the implementation of the MU agreement. I support the proposal of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media and reject all reservations.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-852	Mr. Alman! Today's exercise debate has the title Arts and Culture creators' conditions. These are important questions and, at the same time, a heading under which there is room for motos of a very different nature. For cultural creators, the conditions for creation can often be tough. Income is low in relation to the time spent creating and in relation to the education you have attended. It also often acts as a freelancer and usually as a self-employed person. We therefore see in the Center Party that it is important to review tax and deduction rules in order to create a level playing field for entrepreneurs and freelancers in the cultural sector. There is a need for a policy that is completely different from the tax-raising and anti-business policies pursued by the left-wing government. Instead, in the Center Party, we see the potential of artistic entrepreneurship. There are advantages in working as a self-employed person in the cultural sector when you have more opportunity to control your own creation. It is something I myself have experience of as a self-employed person in dance. The threshold for entrepreneurship as freelance is currently unnecessarily high. This threshold must be lowered. For the creator of culture, it must be the very idea, the cultural expression chosen, to be the focus. But starting a business is often both expensive and complicated. We in the Center Party propose a new business model that is perfect for the cultural creators who want to try out the idea they have for their creative fun gerar. We call this proposal 'in business'. It does not require any knowledge of the bureaucracy or tax legislation associated with entrepreneurship today. No VAT needs to be entered in the accounts, no own contribution is paid and no provisional tax is calculated. The only thing that the start-up entrepreneur would have to keep track of is its turnover of a maximum of SEK 250 000 per year. Instead of the usual taxes and charges, ma n would pay a tax of 25% based on turnover. With the Center Party's proposal on enterprise, more cultural creators in our country could create more with less bureaucracy. Mr. Alman! There are in many places empty spaces in public places that could be both more vibrant and safer with artistic activities. This applies not least to places used by public transport. It is local you can see where these places and opportunities are. For example, the Centre Party in Stockholm has proposed opening up and offering unused surfaces in the city to cultural creators. Mr President, I would like to I had hoped that Ros san a Dinamarca of the Left Party would be here today explaining and defending his reservation. She and the Left want to go another way. They want to ban advertising in the public sector and replace it with art. One argument for this is that advertising does not bring in so much money for public transport and therefore represents a very small income for public transport operators. What is a lot of money is perhaps subjective. But the approximately a quarter of a billion dollars that public transport in Stockholm County is guaranteed every year from advertising revenue is in nte a very small income, not in my eyes anyway. But Rossana Dinamarca may think about h from it is in Västra Götaland which is the area Dinamarca represents in the Riksdag. Västtrafik's advertising revenue of SEK 24 million can certainly be said to be marginal in relation to bola's turnover of SEK 8 billion. But the reason the advertising revenue is so low is that West Traffic does not own the vehicles, the land where the stops are located, the stations or the like. It is the individual entrepreneurs who have the advertising as a side-revenue. In this way, advertising helps indirectly to fund afiken collectively also in Västra Götaland. Without advertising, the traffic procured would certainly be much more expensive. And who had the Left Party intended to pay the higher cost? Raised treasure for cultural creators, perhaps? No, Mr President, we must finance part of public transport for advertising. Then we also get more resources for art in public transport.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-868	Mr President, I would like to Per Lodenius is launching a positive proposal that the government has already decided to present, namely the possibility for start-ups to avoid VAT on the assumption that turnover is not so high. The government has therefore already acted here, and I am pleased that the Center Party supports the government's policy in this regard.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-869	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the government sometimes listens to what the Center Party says about entrepreneurship, but it was not just the VAT that was involved. It was about the whole business package. Yes, VAT is a difficult part to explain and defend in declarations and other things, but there are many more parts. I would be grateful if the government looked even more closely at our proposals on entry companies, because then we could really help cultural entrepreneurs in our country.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-872	Mr President, I would like to The government and the Center Party are now jointly implementing parts of what we hear about in the debate. I hope that we can agree equally on a national strategy for visual arts. Here we have acted together on the issues. I hope that we will find a political majority in the Riksdag by joining the Center Party in what the government will come up with on a national strategy for visual arts so that we can improve the conditions for the artist group that has the most difficult conditions in Sweden today.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-874	Mr President, I would like to I look forward to hearing the Government's proposals, because much needs to be done to improve the situation for the visual artists.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-875	Mr President, I would like to In today's debate, we will deal with motions that concern several areas. In my speech, I will mostly talk about the motions I intend to promote and which happen to touch upon the language. Language is a prerequisite for knowledge. Our Nordic countries have similar languages. We have had the opportunity to understand each other even though we have spoken our respective Nordic languages. It has been very smooth when you have, for example, been on auditions or trips or have a friend from another Nordic country. I have experience of this myself, and it is very smooth. Of course, we have been able to laugh some times when we thought that a certain word meant one thing and it turned out that it meant something completely different. Sometimes it has also led to a lot of reflections and misunderstandings, and it can have consequences. We have been able to see that the Nordic language understanding is getting worse and worse. We are becoming increasingly difficult to communicate with each other in our respective Nordic languages. Perhaps one reason is that English is growing and that we increasingly listen to and hear English than a Nordic language. Perhaps we communicate more often in English instead of in our Nordic languages. I'm spinning and philosophizing here now, but what if this development continues and we continue to understand each other worse and worse? As a result, we will eventually fail to understand each other at all. Think of the loss. When the Nordic language understanding deteriorates, there is a risk that there will be consequences far beyond the cultural field. It complicates educational cooperation, trade relations, the common Nordic labour market and the removal of border barriers. Therefore, the Nordic language understanding is more than just a cultural communication. Mr President, I would like to One language is more than knowledge. Language is a fundamental pillar and is very much part of our culture and our cultural communication. Very often we Swedish democrats are asked what culture is and above all what Swedish culture is. The most obvious thing and most important form of Swedish culture is language. But we also have a Nordic culture and identity. Similarities make us recognize each other's gestures and expressions. Mr President, I would like to Another area affected by the language area is the Sami language. The Sami people have lived in Sweden for hundreds of years and form an indigenous population and also a national minority in the country. The Sami language has been challenged and pushed away through history. The Sami people live and work in Sápmi. But its existence is certainly not secure for the future as fewer and fewer people use the Sami languages and cultural variations. Last week it was free here in Parliament. We Swedish democrats in the Committee on Culture visited the Sameting to learn about the problems and challenges that the Sameting and the Sami are experiencing right now. In our budgets we have had an increasingly clear focus on solutions to the Sami challenges. We are making politics out of the real problems that the people are experiencing. The study visit made it clear to us that there is much to do, but there are also positive areas to highlight. Among other things, parents who themselves failed to learn the language attach great importance to their children's not doing the same. In motion 2545 we write about the problem that there is no Sami language and education centre other than Kautokeino. We also visited the university last week and went on a tour. The University of Kautokeino, located in northern Norway, teaches mainly in North Sami. This means that the Sami who have a different native language have different conditions, for the worse, to be able to study at college. In our motion we propose that a national university for Sami culture and education and the Sami languages be appointed. We also propose that together with the other Nordic countries the possibility of setting up a joint Sami language centre to secure Sami education and research within Sápmi also for non-Nordic-speaking students and researchers be investigated. As we all know, South Sami is extremely threatened, but the worst of it is the Lulesamian. It is currently regarded as completely extinct because of the fact that there are so few people who speak Lulesamic. This is frightening, and it is an issue in which we politicians have to put their foot down. We have indigenous people who can't speak their native language. It's serious now. I therefore call for reservations 5 and 7. The last visit we made to Kautokeino was at the Sami Film Institute. Although the film is outside this report, I would nevertheless like to highlight their work. I would also like to take this opportunity to boast that we were the first parliamentary party to visit their activities. I would like to thank you once again for all the information we received. According to them, the Sami Film Institute has a special role in preserving and making available the Sami language via the film. Above all, they take their mission with the greatest seriality. But they also see the children's role in the matter. The children are the future, and the preservation of the Sami language for the future lies with the children. Finally, I would like to briefly comment on the classic list where we have a joint reservation with L and KD. I really love the idea of setting up a classic list. The Swedish Democrats have made proposals to develop a national cultural cannon, and we see the classic list as part of this work. Having said that, our position on the classic list does not mean that we consider the need for a national cultural cannon to be fulfilled, but we will continue to pursue this issue. For time-winning, I only ask for reservations 5 and 7, but of course we support all our reservations.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-892	Mr President, I would like to When we discuss the conditions for artists, it is important to go back and look at what the party's draft budget looks like. We note that the Swedish Democrats have the absolutely worst conditions in their draft budget for contemporary artists. The Swedish Democrats' draft budget aims to cut the funding for the cultural cooperation model by SEK 40 million and cut the funding for artistic decoration for the common environment by SEK 10 million. The aim is to cut the grant to literature and cultural journals by SEK 32 million. That is an extremely large part of what we are discussing today about stimulating children's and young people's reading. The Swedish Democrats also want to reduce compensation and contributions to artists by SEK 33 million and reduce the support to Moderna Museet by SEK 20 million. They want to reduce support for the Living History Forum by SEK 10 million. It is a reduction in the Swedish Democrats' draft budget in terms of conditions for contemporary artists. What is it that the Swedish Democrats are so afraid of when it comes to what contemporary artists convey? Why do the Swedish Democrats want to reduce the conditions for contemporary artists to work in Sweden today?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-896	Mr President, I would like to Niclas Malmberg and I are very far apart from each other ideologically. Our efforts in our budget are shown here. The National Theatre is doing a fantastic job. Many cultural creators work there. Why does Niclas Malmberg not highlight this? We do so in our budget. Ideology is a major and important factor in politics. We are committed to this in our policy. We want to protect our cultural heritage and the past. No one else is in favour. That is precisely why we are making the efforts that we have in our budget. If we make changes in the autumn, we will have to come back to that. I'll stay there for a while. We've got more line shifts.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-898	Mr President, I would like to If we look at the contribution that the Swedish Democrats are highlighting here and where they say that they are investing, we can see that that is clearly true. In grants 2:1, grants to Operan, Dramaten, Riksteatern, Dansens Hus, Drottningholm Palace Theatre and Voxenåsen, the Swedish Democrats put 5 million more than the government proposes in a total budget of almost 1 billion. It is therefore a marginal effort that the Swedish Democrats are proposing here. In everything about contemporary artists' conditions, however, the Swedish democrats come forward with cuts. The cultural policy of the Swedish democrats would thus mean that the conditions for contemporary artists to operate would deteriorate. This applies, among other things, to a reduction in literary and cultural journals. The Swedish democrats propose a cut of SEK 32 million while talking about the classic list as a way to stimulate children's and young people's reading interest. I would like to ask Angelika Bengtsson how it would stimulate children's and young people's interest in reading to go ahead with a classic list as medicine. Instead, why not start from the literature that children and youths are interested in and make available? In what way could a classic list encourage children's and young people's interest in reading?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-902	Mr President, I would like to I do not disagree with what Niclas Malmberg means. Just because we introduce a classic list doesn't mean you can't choose to read any books you want. Niclas Malmberg mentioned the example of Harry Potter. If you want to read Harry Potter, I don't think anyone will ban it even though we have a classic list. A classic list means that you select some from a historical perspective important books as it is of the highest priority that you can read. Perhaps it is part of general education, and perhaps it is part of our cultural heritage. Perhaps it also leads to an understanding of how history has built up today's reading and literature. If you want a classic list, nothing says you can't even have Harry Potter books. I believe that, and I hope the Green Party understands that.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-905	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that it is incredibly enjoyable to be back in the service of democracy after seven months of parental leave and go straight up the speaker's seat. It feels great! Report No 7 of the Committee on Culture deals with issues relating to art and the conditions of cultural creators – including issues relating to literature, libraries and languages. My intention is to focus the speech on these issues. The literary policy objectives say that everyone in Sweden, regardless of their background and based on their particular circumstances, should be given the opportunity to develop a good reading ability and have access to high quality literature. Mr President, I would like to We are born, and we learn to crawl, to walk, to talk and to read. Few things in life are such a big milestone as just learning to read. It's more than 20 years ago now, but I still remember the feeling when I broke the reading code. What pride! And as a parent of young children today, language development is among the most interesting things to follow — hearing how children's vocabulary grows and their language grows. Mr President, I would like to Research shows that students' reading ability has deteriorated since the early 2000s. This is a major and urgent issue for society as a whole. Of course, the school plays a major role here, but civil society, institutions, public authorities and education are also extremely important to stimulate reading. The State is therefore implementing through the Swedish Arts Council a number of initiatives to promote reading in the country. These include the Book Start project, purchasing support for public and school libraries and the Paus project. In addition, a number of reading promotion activities are being carried out through public education. Mr President, I would like to Last May I had the great honour of visiting the Biblioteksföreningen's 100th anniversary in Lund and the library days there. It presented fantastic projects for reading promotion measures, including Bokleffe in Älvdalen, which aims to get more older men to read books, and the Laundry Stuge Library in Smedjebacken, which aims to borrow each other's books in the laundry room. It's amazing projects. It was also shown on library days how libraries work creatively and actively to find different projects aimed at getting more people to read books. With us in Haparanda municipality we have at my daughter's preschool a small bookbox right inside the door when we pick up and leave our children. It says: Here you can borrow a book! It is also an example of a fantastic project that stimulates reading, especially among children. It is gratifying that with the new Library Act that came into force on 1 January 2014, a number of local library plans have now been adopted by municipalities. The libraries present fine measures and actions to stimulate reading. Mr President, I would like to We must also support the authors and literary creators. We need to get more people to want to write. I can mention an example from when I was in Jokkmokk a year ago and met Sami writers. Did you know that every year only 0.2 books are published by Sami writers? It's a book every five years. Here society needs to create, and continue to create, structures that enable more people to grasp the pen. Languages are kept alive through the literature and through the books. It is therefore gratifying that the government has paid attention and gives increased funding to Sami culture, among other things, by 1 million for 2016. Mr President, I would like to Everyone should read and read literature in their own way. We need to work continuously to make reading and the written word more accessible to people who need to read in other ways– through Braille, through tactile books and through talking books. Here, the Authority for Accessible Media and the Braille Board has an incredibly important mission. Reading is something that will be a challenge in Sweden for a long time to come, and this needs the state to follow closely and be involved in supporting various projects and ideas. We need to see more creative projects that make more interested in reading. We need more writers. We need more libraries. Both the government and the parliament need to continue to engage in the matter, and we need to work actively together in the future as well. It is gratifying that so many efforts are being made to this end. Mr President, I would like to I call for the proposal of the Committee on Culture to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-918	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate procedural matters. The report contains a number of requests for exercise from the general exercise period. I shall start by saying that we naturally support all our moderate reservations, a total of three. For time winning, however, I only apply for reservation 2. I will say something about the three areas to which our reservations relate. Otherwise, where we do not have reservations, we share the view expressed in the committee's report. With regard to the Camera Surveillance Act, we received a new legislation that entered into force on 1 July 2013. Camera monitoring in different locations has been the subject of discussions for a relatively long time and still is. It's no wonder. The central thing about camera surveillance is that there is a balance of interests between, on the one hand, the interest in monitoring and the efficiency that camera surveillance can lead to, and, on the other hand, privacy aspects. The new law provided more scope for surveillance without permission. The big question is perhaps whether this has been fulfilled. Now an investigator has been appointed to investigate many of the problems caused by the Camera Surveillance Act. That, of course, is good. There are a lot of boundary issues when it comes to the difference between, for example, holding a regular mobile phone or Gopro camera in your hand compared to putting it on a bike handler and other things. We believe that, among other things, the problems of trade must be taken more seriously. The new legislation extended the scope for deciding on camera surveillance in unlicensed stores. But this is also crime prevention. Some parts are not included in the investigation, and we think they should be emphasised more. I'll turn to the question of witness protection. It is important that the work to ensure that the courts are and are perceived as safe continues. The report says a great deal about the ban on photography. In an investigation, it shall also be considered whether the prohibition should be extended to the premises of the court and not only the courtroom during the main hearing. This is where the issue of witnesses and plaintiffs is at the centre. In the past, the prohibition of photography focused primarily on the defendant. But I think today is about more witnesses and plaintiffs. It is often said in the general debate that witnesses do not want to stand up. It is important to point out that witnessing is a civic duty. If you don't, you can even be arrested. The important thing in this context, however, is to create conditions so that people can feel safe in a situation that is quite unusual for the vast majority, namely to testify about and tell different things in court. Then it is important that there is access to witness support, perhaps special waiting rooms. We also believe that more serious consideration should be given to the abuse of justice. There is reason to look at the scale of the penalties and how the penalty itself is designed so that it really hits that type of system-threatening crime. Finally, I would like to say something about order and security in the courts. It is also about more secure conditions in the wider sense. The Alliance government took several initiatives to increase the security of the country's courts. It is important that this work continues. It is positive that an investigator has been appointed. The Parliament also issued an announcement in spring 2015. But we think it is particularly important that the investigation also includes a broad review of the rules of procedure both during and around the main negotiations. It is important that the investigation does indeed result in proposals that will enable the order and security of the courts to be even better. It is ultimately a matter of obtaining the best evidence. Bad conditions and insecurity for witnesses and plaintiffs create fear and nervousness and may lead to the possibility of not being the best oral evidence given in court. And that leads to worse decisions.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-932	Mr President, I would like to When the Swedish democrats in the election movement in 2014 and before that highlighted the problems with Sweden's callless immigration policy, not too rarely came ridiculed comments from both Social Democrats and Moderates. It sounded like immigration had no relevance to the ability of different authorities to carry out their duties. Who was right and who had to crawl to the cross and change the meaning of the question is, so to speak, history. The fact that the other parties have now understood the consequences of an irresponsible immigration policy is welcome. But a sudden realization will not solve any problems, at least not in the short term. In the judiciary, it is mainly the Police Authority that has had to face the direct consequences of the irresponsible and failed immigration policy of the Alliance Government and the Red Green Government. As I said, we cannot, in the short term, conjure up more police officers at the level required to deal with today's challenges. We will live with the fact that the service we are used to from the police will be more eroded. Ultimately, it is the government's grant to the Police Authority that is crucial if we are to cope with the conditions that exist or not. So far, we have seen no satisfactory efforts by the government in this regard. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that such basic conditions, that fewer and fewer police officers in relation to the population should try to solve increasingly complex tasks, pose a problem. Other issues that are not directly budget driven are becoming increasingly topical to look at. I have been studying for some time how we allow the police to use camera surveillance in places that are particularly vulnerable to crime in our country. In view of the fact that fewer people have the courage to witness in increasingly criminal areas, it is surprisingly difficult and difficult for the police to obtain permission for camera surveillance. In Seved, Malmö, the police received temporary permits for camera surveillance in the residential area. The reasons for the application were the serious crime that had occurred for 18 months in the residential area, with repeated shootings and detonated hand grenades. A residential area should not have to develop into a war zone before the police are granted permission for camera surveillance as support in their work. Unfortunately, the case in Seved is a bit of an exception. In another example, the police applied to use camera surveillance in several locations in Rinkeby in 2013. In 2014, the County Administrative Board considered that the police's application was justified and granted permits. However, the decision was appealed by the Swedish Data Protection Authority, which obtained the right in the administrative court and convicted the police's application. At the moment, the question is raised in the Administrative Court of Appeal, which is expected to give a reply in the spring. It is now three years since the police applied for a permit for camera surveillance at various locations in Rinkeby. A fairly common scenario in one of our segregated residential areas is an escalation of violence between two criminal networks. A person is being shot at in a densely populated residential area. The shooter refuses to talk to the police, and no one in the area is willing to give the police testimony as to what has happened. In such a situation, when the police fear a further escalation of violence in a residential area where the difficult investigation conditions are known in advance, it is not reasonable that the police should have to wait three years for the application to be processed and appealed and so on. Nor is it reasonable for an area to develop into a war zone before you can access devices such as camera surveillance. Mr President, I would like to Camera surveillance has great support among our population and certainly even greater support among those living in particularly vulnerable residential areas. We know that the Police Authority is experiencing a historically great effort. Then it should not be any strange thing to make it easier for the police to do their job by implementing proposals that have a great deal of support for the population. So far, however, only the Swedish Democrats want it to be much easier for the police to use camera surveillance. But at a time when political upheavals have become a bit of a trend, I would like to ask the remaining parties in this House to look a little extra at the Swedish Democrats' reservation on camera surveillance. Mr President, I would like to Secret coercive measures are another area where the Swedish Democrats propose changes that make it easier for police and prosecutors to collect evidence, for example against serious organised crime. Among other things, we want to allow sound recording in secret camera surveillance. We also want surplus information when using secret coercive measures to be used as a basis for prosecution to a greater extent. We generally believe that the penalty for using secret coercive measures should be reduced. With regard to all these proposals, including camera surveillance in public places or in residential areas, there is a political line of conflict between personal integrity and society's ability to frame criminals. Of course, the Swedish Democrats have a balance between these two interests. Today, criminal networks can put terror in residential areas for years without the judicial system succeeding in penetrating criminals. At least it's more offensive for me to lose my security in my neighborhood than it is to get caught on a surveillance video when I go shopping. And today you are taking very much into account the protection of the criminal against privacy violations, which means that the balance between personal integrity and society's ability to prosecute crimes in my world is very much in favour of the criminals. Today, it may be that a secret room wiretaps against a well-documented criminal exposes a different crime from what the room wiretaps originally referred to. In such a situation, we do not believe that the violation that the criminal may feel about being bugged should constitute an obstacle to using the evidence to prosecute. But that is the case today. You don't prosecute for crimes where there's evidence through excess information in secret room wiretapping. It is considered to be an excessive violation of the criminal's personal integrity. Secret coercive measures and more general camera surveillance are some means of combating crime and creating security. But it is of course only a small part of the Swedish Democrats' overall criminal policy where we have proposed and budgeted for 7 000 new police officers and a number of different penalties and new legislative proposals. In conclusion, however, on behalf of this debate, I would like to express my support for the Swedish Democrats' reservation on camera surveillance. secret coercive measures, even if we in our party are behind our other reservations.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-956	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I wondered whether I should ask Adam Marttinen if he knows what procedural law is. It took him two minutes to get into procedural matters. Before that, the speech was on general justice policy. It's probably so important, but maybe not on this particular matter. Adam Marttinen says that only the Swedish Democrats want more opportunities to use camera surveillance in different situations. That is not very good, it is just reading the Moderates' reservation in this report. We have had the attitude expressed in that reservation for quite a long time. That was also the reason why the former alliance government made sure that there was a new camera surveillance team in 2013, which made it easier to obtain permission for camera surveillance. This leads, of course, to the question: What separates the reserves of the Swedish Democrats from those of the Moderates? According to Adam Marttinen, the Swedish Democrats are unique in their approach to camera surveillance. But that's not true. What distinguishes the attitude of the Swedish democrats from that of our reservation? Then I would like to point out that it is very important to know that real security is achieved not only by camera surveillance, but also by police presence. Camera monitoring can never replace it, and there is also a danger of exaggerating the importance of camera surveillance. As in any other legal policy situation, a nuanced view must be taken of the various aspects of the issues under discussion.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-960	Mr President, I would like to The reason it took some time before I got into the factual reservations was that I wanted to make a background description of the conditions for how the police are doing today. It is very difficult for them to obtain, for example, witness information in very criminal areas. Hence, I came to the suggestion that camera surveillance can be an important complement for the police in their work to obtain evidence or support for investigations where there is no public who can provide witness information. Anti Avsan pointed out that it is important to have a real police presence. It will be a bit parody when the Moderates point it out to us Swedish Democrats because we have budgeted for 7 000 new police officers, which is far more than what the Moderates have proposed. Sure, we appreciate the importance of a real police presence, but we operate under the conditions of a red-green government, and you are not doing everything in your power to convict it. Then we will have to relate to the reality that prevails. As things stand, there will be no more police officers in Sweden today, at least not in the short term. Then secret coercive measures and camera surveillance, as I preferred, are important parts of a complementary work. What exactly separates the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats in these proposals, we will probably have to come back to. However, as we describe in our reservation, we are no stranger to easier conditions for the police to have camera surveillance even in residential areas. However, many parties in this House feel that it is very intrusive while we see it as an important complement to the police in their efforts to create security and good conditions for criminal investigations.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-963	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the first part of Adam Marttinen's previous speech, I would like to say that reception and immigration do not affect the procedural rules in any respect. They should apply to all things regardless of what kind of person you are and what your background is. The Swedish Democrats may have proposed 7 000 police officers, but the question is whether the funding is holding. Another important aspect is the clearance rate and the efficiency shown by the police with the employees they have today, and this cannot be replaced by thousands of new police officers. In addition, the Moderates have allocated an additional 1 000 police officers in their budget exercise with the aim of working in areas that are particularly vulnerable and identified by the police themselves. There, the police presence cannot be replaced by camera surveillance. If you have camera images in, for example, a preliminary investigation to be used as evidence, the images can say one thing, but in the vast majority of cases that evidence is not so extensive and not of the quality that it can be added as a basis for a conviction without additional witness information. You have to hear people who might be in the pictures about what happened. It's not that simple. Again, it is very important to have a nuanced view of these issues and also to take into account all the different aspects of them.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-967	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the reception of refugees does not directly affect procedural matters. But what I said in my speech was that the conditions for the Police Authority are greatly affected by the refugee reception that we have had. We are now visiting the various districts of the Political Authority and there we are witnessing a great deal of strain under the pressure of the refugee policy that the Alliance laid the foundations for and which the Red-Green parties have continued to conduct. Now the heel has been turned a little bit over the last quarter, and that is – as I said in my opening speech – welcome. However, if security is not to be created through cameras, which is not entirely satisfactory, it must be ensured that the conditions are created for training more police officers. The Swedish Democrats have proposed 7 000 new police officers until 2022. That's where the Moderates are a little behind. But if the Moderates or the Alliance are interested in making a real difference, you are of course welcome to contribute to announcements from the Swedish Democrats' draft budget about training more police officers. But as things stand now, you are still a little too reserved and afraid to stand up to the government when it comes to crucial budgetary issues. It is a call on my part: review your possibilities to raise shared budget reservations, and we can also ensure that there are even more police officers who are creating real security! Until then, camera surveillance is a good alternative for security and residential areas and a good complement in criminal investigations for police officers who today do not receive any witness information.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-978	Mr President, I would like to Being a referee is a balance between representing the public and having an equally heavy and important role that the legal judge has. Being a RAC is also an incredibly fine mission, and that is actually something that everyone can be. It is enough that you are a Swedish citizen. Today, it is the political parties that appoint the RACs. Most of the time, the referee is a member of the party. Our judges are present in civil and criminal cases in the general courts, and they are also present in the administrative courts. But there are some problems with the RACs. A few weeks ago, a judge in Norrköping District Court commented on the situation of refugees on social media. This person commented on refugees in a way that underestimated the whole human dignity. The boardman commented: That's how bad they really can't have it. That can't be true! This panel came from the great party of the cyberhat, where there is a party culture that promotes online hatred and legitimises such views. This was not a strange or unusual thing for the referee, but it was exactly how it works in the referee's party. I think we should have high demands on the RACs. We should have high demands on the RACs, who have a fine and heavy position of trust. The Lawman of the District Court of Norrköping chose to dismiss the RAC in question because the RAC had seriously damaged confidence in the district court. I think the teamman made a good decision. The question of referees is, in fact, about what judgments we want. How do we want the courts to work? There are many investigations and suggestions as to how we can re-establish the RAC system. It is a question of reducing the number of councillors. You can increase the compensation. It is about how we can recruit RACs: how should we broaden recruitment? Should municipalities play a more active role in recruiting RACs? Is that supposed to work another way? Or is it still the political parties that should have the primary responsibility to nominate and elect the judges? I think that this party membership can make anyone who wants to be a referee and is committed might hesitate to seek. Right now, it's almost time for party membership. Sweden's courts enjoy a high level of trust, and they will continue to have it. There should be transparency, judgments should be easy to understand and the judgment should be legally secure. I would like to thank all the Swedish RACs. I would like to thank all those who work almost every day of the year to maintain confidence in Sweden's courts. Thank you very much for doing this incredibly important work! I think it is time for us politicians to start putting their foot down on how we should have a lively council force in the future.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-988	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations. The debate today is on procedural matters. Our judicial system and our courts, which are therefore the subject of the debate, are to be permeated by legal certainty and efficiency. As spoken to, you should know that you are judged by the law and that irrelevant consideration is not taken. As a witness and plaintiff, you should feel safe and not have to be afraid of, for example, revenge, i.e. what we call abuse in legal matters. In the matter, a 40 or so motions are dealt with with with 50 different proposals. Some are thought-provoking, which is not very good ideas in the opinion and is about work that is actually going on, including at the Ministry of Justice. In Sweden, we have a long tradition of constantly considering changes and improvements, including in our judicial system. Few rules are hewn in stone. The mills at times grind slowly, but they grind anyway. The first group of exercises concerns the RACs. Different changes are proposed here. As we have just done a review of changes, we must let those changes work. There is no need to re-examine the issue at this time. Then comes exercise on camera wake g. There are also many different points of view here. An investigation is ongoing here with a special investigator who will study a wide range of issues. So work is in progress. On the next motion, on secret coercive measures, a balance must always be struck between the invasion of personal integrity and the possibility for law enforcement authorities to intervene. There is extensive investigation work going on here, as well as preparatory work, as some investigations are already complete. The rules should enable us to meet high standards of legal certainty. As I said at the beginning, as a witness, you should feel safe. Exercises on better order and security in our courts, security checks, the ban on shooting in courtrooms, and more raise just such issues. The Swedish Judicial Authority has been tasked by the Government to investigate and review the security of witnesses and plaintiffs and will now come back to us in 2016 about what has been done. On 1 December last year, the government also decided to appoint a special investigator to review the rules on order and security in our courtrooms. So work is in progress. I note that, in addition to the committee's investigation, work is underway in several places to improve the safety and security of witnesses and others who appear before the courts and to encourage more to testify. Among other things, the witnessing activity has now started in most places. It works very well and is very popular. It is also possible today for witnesses and plaintiffs to be present via a video link. We also have motions for plaintiffs. These play an important role in the judicial process. The question of their role in the Government Office is currently being prepared. A court that has convicted certain healthcare professionals must inform Ivo and the National Board of Health and Welfare in certain cases. There are no plans for the introduction of an automatic system. The difficulties faced by the courts include a lack of quality-assured information on the defendant's employment. This does not always mean that processing is carried out. The Court of Justice, which is the service body of the courts, has drawn attention to the issue, and it can be assumed that they will deal with it. Much work is currently under way to improve and develop the judicial process. We will have reason to come back as the investigations are completed and the government makes proposals. But today, Mr President, I call for all reservations to be rejected and for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1000	Mr President, I would like to Today's last debate is about violent crime and crime victims. Of course, I support all reservations in which the Moderates participate, but for time winning, I only support reservations 4 and 9. During the time of the alliance government, violence in close relations was a high priority. We made sure to implement a series of important reforms in this area. In 2006, the Action Plan against violence in close relationships, violence in same-sex relationships and honour violence came. The Alliance government did not turn a blind eye to the problems but took them very seriously. In April 2012, a national coordinator against violence in close relations was appointed. The coordinator submitted some fifty proposals in June 2014, which are still being prepared in the Government Office. It's almost two years ago. We Moderates believe that the intensive and important work against violence in close relationships must continue. We are therefore keen that the Government prepares the proposals as soon as possible and presents them to Parliament. Most crimes in close relationships are not reported. This is, of course, a major problem. The reasons can be many. It can be about fear, guilt and shame. Often you accuse yourself of what you've been subjected to. Persons who have been subjected to honour-related violence are, if possible, even more difficult to report when they are left alone and threatened by a whole family. Many of those who dare to file a complaint also withdraw the notification. It is important to work so that more people dare to register and that those who report do not withdraw the notification. In cases where the victim of violence does not report or withdraw his or her report, the perpetrator may go free. Even if the relationship ends, the perpetrator will continue to expose new victims. There are examples of relationship violence centres that provide victim support within 48 hours after the police report. This contributes to more cases leading to prosecution. We Moderates want to see more such activities in the country. The Swedish Parliament gave the government an announcement in the spring of 2015 asking the government to investigate whether the requirements for when a restraining order may be combined with electronic monitoring are too high. In June 2015, I asked the Minister of Justice a written question about when the government would set up an investigation to review the requirements. The Minister replied that he shared Parliament's view and that the aim was to start the investigation work in the autumn of 2015. When nothing happened all autumn, I asked the question again on 2 March this year. Sometimes it helps with a little blowtorch. On 8 March, the Minister appointed an investigator. Mr President, I would like to Last year's large immigration contributed to the arrival of more married asylum seekers children in Sweden than before. Although children's marriages are prohibited by Swedish law, municipalities often allow children to live with the adults they are married to. These are about 70 children who arrived during the autumn. The amendment of the law implemented under the Alliance Government, which entered into force on 1 July 2014, tightened up forced and child marriages and introduced a new crime, forced marriage. Foreign child marriages and forced marriages shall only be approved where there are exceptional reasons. The Alliance believes that further efforts are needed to combat forced marriage. For example, consideration should be given to whether a separate forced marriage unit is needed within the police. Today, we are completely dependent on the Internet to make our everyday lives work, but even if this makes our lives easier, new problems have arisen. The Internet is a place where many crimes are committed. In 2014, 67,000 fraud attempts were made using identity creations worth 3.7 billion. The person affected has personal integrity violated but is also allowed to devote a lot of time to settling the situation. For example, the victim must turn to a large number of credit information companies in order to be able to fight against the fraudster taking credit in the name of the individual. More needs to be done to make it more difficult for criminals. The committee believes that the government should work towards the establishment of a victim portal to which victims can turn to block their identity data. Mr President, I would like to In 2014, nearly 11⁄2 million crimes were reported. Behind each reported crime is a victim who has been violated. But family and friends of the victim are also affected. Many times there are children in the picture. In 2013, nearly 93 000 victims of crime received assistance and support from victim support services. But the conditions for helping victims are different in different parts of the country because a large part of the work is carried out on a non-profit basis and depends on financial support from the municipalities. The Moderates want to ensure that the equivalence of victim support is increased in the country. The person affected by a crime often has many questions, and if you have not been exposed before, it is difficult to know where to turn. There is a need for a national hotline for victims of crime. The victim of a crime shall receive support and assistance for redress. Part of this is that the judicial system succeeds in its main tasks: investigating crimes, arresting suspects and judging the guilty. Another part of the work to reduce the harm caused by crime and to support crime victims is to ensure that the system of crime compensation works. Since 2006, children who have witnessed violence against a close relative have also been regarded as victims of crime. This means that they are entitled to compensation for crime. Several authorities took action following the change, in particular training and information activities. Nevertheless, several years later in the bill A new criminal offence law, 2013/ 14:94, found that the authorities' actions had not had an impact. They had not fully found the means to deal with the system of crime compensation for children who witnessed violence. We Moderates therefore believe that there is now reason to follow this up and ensure that it works. For example, it is extremely important that police reports as well as preliminary investigations reveal whether there have been children at the crime scene who have witnessed violence. The new Criminal Damage Act, which entered into force under the alliance government in 2014, was designed to strengthen the protection of victims and improve the system of crime compensation, especially for children. The new law means, among other things, that the Victims' Agency is not able to determine a lower amount of criminal damages for violation than the amount of damages imposed by the court. The maximum limit for the infringement compensation has been removed and the application period for the crime compensation has been extended from two to three years. I would also like to highlight in particular the legislative changes that have strengthened the protection of children who have been victims of crime. The new Criminal Damage Act, which entered into force under the Alliance Government, means that children can now apply for compensation until the date of their 21st birthday. In cases where the guardians do not wish to submit an application on behalf of their child, the child is given the opportunity to submit an application for compensation to the Victims' Agency within three years of the 18th anniversary. In addition, it has become easier for children to apply for compensation when the crime has been committed by a guardian. Today, the signature of a guardian is sufficient for a child to be able to apply for a criminal injury benefit. In cases where one of the parents has committed a crime against his or her child, or if a parent otherwise opposes the child's payment without reasonable justification, the other guardian alone shall be able to assist his or her child to apply for a criminal injury benefit. Any child who grows up with physical, mental or sexual violence gets hurt. In addition, children exposed to violence are at increased risk of abuse, crime, smoking, binge eating and other risk behaviours in adulthood. Therefore, it is important to detect and stop violence against children early on. Crimes against children must be investigated quickly. However, according to a report from Save the Children, there are shortcomings and major differences around the country regarding the investigation period for violent crimes against children. When the police receive a report that a child has been subjected to, for example, assault or sexual abuse, there are provisions that state that the investigation should take place quickly. It may take a maximum of 90 days between the existence of a reasonable suspect until the prosecutor prosecutes. In just over a third of cases, the prosecutor's chambers fail to keep the statutory 90 days. There's a big difference across the country. In Karlstad, 83 per cent of the crime suspicions are investigated within 90 days, but in Norrköping the corresponding figure is only 48 per cent. The starting point must be that crimes against children should be investigated as quickly as possible. However, for child matters there is no statutory urgency requirement for court proceedings or any time limit for the main hearing. The national coordinator against violence in close relationships believes that this is a shortcoming. The investigation Urgency requirements and deadlines in cases involving young suspects and young plaintiffs were reported in summer 2013. It proposes that the time limit for preliminary investigation and decision on prosecution may be 10 weeks from the time when a person has been deemed to be reasonably suspected of a crime. The main hearing in the District Court shall be held within four weeks of the prosecution and in the Court of Appeal eight weeks from the end of the cross-appeal. We Moderates believe that a coherent deadline for the entire judicial process should be introduced when it comes to children who have been victims of crime. This is important because a shorter legal process can increase the children's ability to move forward in life more quickly. When crime has not been prevented, it is important that society's resources focus on reducing the harm caused by crime and helping victims. All victims should feel that society is on their side and that they receive strong support when they need it most.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1020	Mr President, I would like to We have four reservations in the report, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation 30. Reservation No 30 deals with compensation for victims of crime. It is in line with the movements we have put forward in Parliament for several years. Among other things, it is a motion that we called New Crimes Act. We would like to see the government come back to us with a proposal for increased levels of compensation for serious crimes of abuse, such as violent and sexual crimes. Today, for example, some may receive 30 000 SEK in damages. It happened once when a man refused to take a woman in hand because she was a woman. For the man felt that after touching a woman he had to wash because of his religious faith. You can guess which one. When the man did not get the internship that he was looking for because of this show before his female boss, he received 30 000 SEK in damages, which is quite interesting. At the same time, people who have been severely abused may have to settle for 10 000 – 15 000 SEK in damages. The crime victim authority writes that assaults and robberies of a little rougher kind give 10 000 – 15 000 kronor. It is, for example, grosser violence against the face or hard kicks, violence against the one lying down and so on. In 2015, the Swedish Crime Victims Agency increased its compensations for serious assault with serious but not life-threatening injuries from SEK 40,000 to SEK 50,000. Their ambition was that the increase would have an impact in the courts of the country. In the Swedish Crime Victims Agency's summary collection, they recently wrote: The Supreme Court has accepted that standard. ..................................................... In a summary from 2014, they took an example of a woman who had been beaten several times for four months. The man must have skulled her in the face, d unscrewed her skull against a wall and so on for a long time. The District Court sentenced the man for assault and to pay damages to the woman with 40 000 SEK for violation. We have someone who doesn't want to take a woman in hand because he has to wash himself afterwards. That person gets 30,000 kroner. A woman who for four months is subjected to various physical violent assaults receives SEK 40,000. It's quite remarkable. We believe that society must upgrade the levels of compensation for such crimes and, above all, violent and sexual crimes. In this context, I would like to highlight a similar proposal that the Swedish Democrats have been pursuing for a long time. It is a state guarantee for the payment of damages. Today, the victim himself has to collect the money from the offender. We think that is the wrong way. We believe that the state should take responsibility for the compensation process so that the victim receives money from the state. The state then takes over responsibility and collects the money from the offender. The victim avoids the violation it often means that he may have to contact the offender himself or be advised to do so. The state is also likely to have a better ability to get an offender to pay out the money. In any case, it should be the responsibility of society to also take care of the damages part so that the process for an individual who has been subjected to a crime is made smoother and more efficient. As the previous speaker mentioned, improvements have now been made in this area so that compensation for damages cannot be reduced in the same way as it was done in the past, which is very positive. We believe, however, that the levels, especially in relation to other crimes, must be up for violent and sexual crimes and the like, and that the state must in the long term be able to take responsibility for the damages that are convicted.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1031	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago we debated and voted on prison issues in this House. One of the proposals initiated by the Alliance, which won the majority, was that the government should consider whether persons convicted of violent crimes should not have an obligation to undergo treatment programmes. A refusal to participate in such a programme shall have consequences for the inmate's ability to obtain leave and conditional release. The inmate's participation in the treatment programme shall be a requirement for conditional release of the person. Of course, the best legal policy is to ensure that there are as few victims as possible. However, a sensible legal policy is also to create the conditions for victims of crime to be able to obtain redress as far as possible. The other side of the coin of justice policy is to create the conditions for those who have committed crimes to pay for it and to make amends. Taking part in a treatment is one way to do the right thing. It can be an important part of doing the right thing. This should, in my view, be encouraged. This is partly in line with what I want to emphasise today. About as long ago we were with the committee and visited the Police Region in the middle of Uppsala. They run a professional business, not least when it comes to combating sex crimes online. The police are suffering from many problems, certainly even in the Mitt region, but this is an example of an activity that is apparently as admirable as it is urgent. The police there are rather oblivious as to what they think is required. They often find that the penalties imposed are provocatively low. It is in itself an interesting discussion that we should not take here and now, but when we discussed this we came up with a related issue. It was about whether those convicted of these sometimes rather severe sex crimes are offered any treatment during their sentence period. The risk is imminent, Mr President, not to say almost total, that someone who is convicted of blackmailing a young person to commit acts on himself will relapse into crime when the sentence is served. It is certainly a good thing if such a person is in jail any longer, because it cannot commit this kind of crime, but the best thing would be, of course, if the person could be induced to stop this criminal and terrible behaviour. Sooner or later, these people must also be released. Children and young people are a very vulnerable group when it comes to deeply integrity-implementing crimes such as sexual crimes. There is a great need for new knowledge about sexual crimes against children. According to Brå's report No. 6 of 2011, Police reported rapes against children, prevention researchers state that it is very important that society has preventive strategies against sexual abuse. According to the report, there is a lack of an overall summary of the situation in the field of prevention in Sweden and a description of what is being done at the different levels of prevention, who is responsible for ensuring that it is done and which actors do. I believe that the prevention of sexual crimes should be pushed forward at all levels. I would therefore like to endorse my reservation No 6 on the preventive work against sexual offences. I would also like to take this opportunity in the debate to announce, in this way, the strengthening and deepening of the Center Party's policy on compensation for victims of crime. It is far too complicated for a victim, who may also be severely traumatised, to do all that is necessary to obtain his or her damages. This must change. This is something we touched upon when we debated the subject last year. The proposal is found again in a motion from me called 2015/ 16:2403. It's request 12, for anyone who wants to look at it. The exercise is simplified in this report. Since we last debated this, the Center Party has taken an even stronger position, and we intend to come back with a thorough motion on this urgent subject and have a discussion with those with whom we cooperate most if we cannot find a majority in favour of it. Mr President, I would like to I was deeply touched by Pia Hallström's fine speech. She raises several important issues. I agree with much of what she says, including in the motion for a single reservation No 9.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1043	Mr President, I would like to Men's violence against women is an enormous problem. It can be seen that all parties in this House take this seriously. Men's violence against women and violence in close relationships is a very complex issue. It is something that affects the whole family. It's usually the man who beats the woman. For the woman who gets beaten, a lot happens. Among other things, there is a normalization process where she thinks and acts in a certain way: If I just tighten up a bit, I may not be beaten. If I just make a really good dinner, maybe nothing will happen. Violence normalizes daily. It may also be that the woman blames herself and thinks: It may be my own fault. Maybe I'm a little pugish. Maybe I'm saying a little too many things. That's why he beats me. Men's violence against women is a structural social problem, and it is everywhere. No matter what society we have, what period of time it is, what culture we live in and what language we speak, there is as a pervasive problem of men's violence against women. It's always the man who beats. That's because we live in a subordination and subordination of women and men where men have greater power and greater authority in society. This is part of the patriarchy that unfortunately affects us every day as women. Men's violence against women also affects the family. It affects children above all. Children are then a legislative proposal in 2006 when it comes to violence in close relationships and violence within the family. 150 000 children experience violence on a daily basis. It is often the father or mother's partner who beats the mother. This experiences children. They feel it incredibly strong even though they are not the ones who get beaten and even though the parent usually thinks that the children do not notice anything. They're not in the same room. But this will notice children. The police have an obligation to report such incidents. They must report to the Social Security Office when children are involved in violence in close relationships. Unfortunately, this happens very rarely. Only half of all cases are reported. Watching Dad beat Mom every day, every week and every month, regardless of the intensity or frequency of it, creates tremendous wounds in the children. It creates trauma, it creates mental illness and it creates post-traumatic stress symptoms. We have a lot of knowledge about this. We have a lot of knowledge about violence in close relationships and how children are affected. We know that children have a divided loyalty between parents and that it is problematic for children who don't know what to do when Dad beats Mom: Should I support Dad? You want me to tell him to stop, or maybe it's Mom who's gonna get her act together? There's a lot of sin about her! It's really hard. When children witness violence and see abuse in this way, they feel that they themselves are beaten, even if they are not. That is why the Left Party wants to go further than current legislation. We want children in legal proceedings in cases of violence in close relationships to be given a status as plaintiffs and not just as victims of crime, as it is today. If children become sued in the legal process, they will be given greater protection. You can report the crime to the police, and the child can get a plaintiff in the legal process and a special representative in the preliminary investigation. It is possible to apply for damages and compensation in a different way than it is possible to do if the child is a victim of crime. We believe that it is time for such a development and to take the step further. As I said, we have knowledge. We are aware of the errors in the judicial process and the measures that need to be strengthened. Mr President, I would like to We need to have a child's perspective in the legal process. We need to have a child's perspective on such extremely difficult issues. Some who express the same opinion as the Left Party and who also want to change so that children will become plaintiffs are Save the Children, Crime Victim Support Finland, Unizon and Ersta d iakoni, who in a debate article a few weeks ago expressed the same desire for politics to ensure that children become plaintiffs. With the debate article and Save the Children in one hand and the Victim Support Finland in the other, I ask for the consent of reservation 22 – that children should be given plaintiff status.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1056	Mr President, I would like to In the area of violent crime and victims of crime, the Committee on Justice has made a number of announcements, including to the previous government. But not least, we have made repeated strong calls to the current government and to the responsible ministers Morgan Johansson and Anders Ygeman. A year ago, the government even stated that they will not accept the calls. It sounded like the parliament could make any decision, even though the government knows that on several of these issues they have a majority in the House against them. I now note almost every week the media government's take-off based on proposals which, on a point-by-point basis, stem from the calls made by the opposition actively and decided by this House. One example is an early announcement made at the end of the last parliamentary term. It was about violence in close relationships. The demand was for the government to take action for women fleeing a loved one or feeling fear of being subjected to threats and violence. These women must be able to be given special police protection in order, for example, to go home to collect their or their children's belongings. The Alliance government instructed the then National Police Board to investigate this and provide support for the police's work. This information was presented by the police to the government last July. The government has not yet delivered – they have possibly announced but not delivered – any sharp proposals regarding the national strategy against violence against women. But we look forward to it coming. Another important element that the Liberals want to highlight again is the strengthening of measures against hate crime. Throughout 2015, we asked recurring questions and interpellations and debated not least in the media to pressure the government to deliver. In March last year, the Police Authority presented its assessment of the competence and infrastructure of the Swedish police regarding the handling of hate crime cases, which the Alliance Government has commissioned them to do in 2014. The starting point was that Stockholm's City has had a very nice business for many years. The report stressed the importance of better knowledge but also that the activities were organisationally vulnerable and needed to be strengthened. Hat crime groups were seriously requested, including in Gothenburg and Malmö. Malmö has in recent years unfortunately had problems with hate crimes, not least with anti-Semitic motives. In the report, the police indicate that work needs to be intensified in several police regions. We should not just think about Stockholm, Malmö and Gothenburg every time. The government, which received the report, has so far been unable to demonstrate new resources for this mission. As with many other police activities, priority should also be given to hate crimes within an economic framework. I have informed myself that the work in Stockholm is going well. It has broadened Stockholm's City's mission to cover the entire Stockholm region, which is good. The work in Malmö is under way, so also in Gothenburg. There have been moves and press conferences about that the business is now in place in Gothenburg, that it should be manned and started. But only a week ago the employees came to the hate crime group and the unit in Gothenburg. So there is a huge gap between what is announced and the actual delivery and the result. That is what is a bit of a concern when it comes to the management of the government. Mr President, I would like to When the Liberals have asked here in the House earlier why so few hate crimes lead to punishment, they promised an act study that the Prosecutor's Office would conduct and present to the government in November December. But so far I have not received any feedback from what that report showed. Another important issue raised is the work against forced marriage. The government, after the Liberals but also other parties pressed on, has recently appointed a person to do a review of the law enforcement that the Alliance carried out in 2014. It is very unfortunate that our intentions to tighten up the penalties have not had the impact we wanted. It is very worrying that none of the investigated cases have so far led to prosecution. The Liberals therefore decided at the national meeting in November to introduce a new law, an ex Fadime, with a completely new criminal rubrication: honor crimes. But we also want to look at why police and prosecutors have not been able to provide evidence and investigations so that more have been able to be convicted of these heinous crimes, such as misleading or forced marriages. Finally, I would like to highlight a dear theme for the Liberals, whether it is me or my predecessor who has been in the speaker's chair, namely the work on tightening up legislation so that more people can be sentenced to an electronic anklet even in the event of an extended ban on contact. We have also proposed extending the scope of the ban on contact. People who threaten and abuse, for example, a former partner must feel the punishment of the legislation in a tougher way. It is unfortunate that the government parties are calling for the proposals we have tabled to be rejected. When our motion was written last autumn, the government had not delivered anything, but only expressed and announced things. On this point, too, exactly a year ago, we made an announcement to the government to investigate whether the requirements for when a restraining order can be joined with a anklet are too high. The Liberals, with their colleagues in the Alliance, have put pressure on the government in front of us on this issue too. The statement by the Minister of Justice on a review came so late in March that the issue will now be investigated until next year before we have a change of law. Early summer 2017 or possibly autumn, we can get legislation on this. The directive for the investigation is also vague and unclear. The investigator at the Prosecutor's Office shall consider, assess and evaluate whether the regulatory framework is appropriate. But we have heard in previous speeches, we have seen the Crime Prevention Council's reports and several of us have repeatedly noted that today's rules are not effective. Although 800 to 900 cases have been notified, 127 or about 130 cases have led to a judgment. For many of these crimes, there are very few cases where a restraining order can be applied. It has been established that the requirements for a restraining order are far too high. So it does not need to be investigated too much. It is clear that we need to change the legislation. We have also called for this to be approved.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1073	Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party have exercised that we want children who live with violence in close relationships and within the family to be seen as plaintiffs in the crime process. They have experienced crimes in the same way as the one who has been beaten. We want to go a little further than the current legislation. We want the child perspective to be taken more clearly into account than is being done today. The Left Party believes it is time to go further. But the Liberals don't want that. Instead, you want children to be victims of crime and not to have the same heavy status as a plaintiff in the legal process. Why would the Liberals want that, Roger Haddad?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1075	Mr President, I would like to We have, of course, drawn attention to this issue in various stages. It is true that we have another variant, but the spirit and conclusion of the proposals we have put forward is to achieve the same, namely to strengthen the competence of children in the legal process and also their legal status so that they are entitled to compensation or other support. It is possible that we have different approaches, but we in the Liberals have repeatedly proposed both in this report and in previous reports that children in close relationships should be regarded as victims of crime.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1077	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Haddad, for your answer. The Liberals wrote in their party movement in 1481 that children who experience violence in close relationships are considered and treated as victims of crime. But it will be a bit of a problem if children are seen as victims. Instead, if children were to become plaintiffs in the criminal proceedings, a great deal would be simplified. The majority of compensations for crime victims are refused because children in the preliminary investigation have not been recognised by the police and registered in it. The applications are therefore rejected because there are no convictions and no reimbursement can be made. You and I, Roger Haddad, both know that children experience violence the same way. We take it very seriously, and that is why a good process has to take place. We must ensure that children receive redress in the process of violence. That is why I would like to ask two more questions. What do the Liberals want children who are victims of crime and not plaintiffs to be able to receive compensation in addition to all the measures announced by the government? Liberals are therefore totally opposed to Save the Children, Victim Support Finland, the Psychologists' Association, Unizon and Ersta diakoni. Why don't you listen to these organisations?
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1082	Mr President, I would like to I do not know who Linda Snecker has been talking to, but we have also met representatives of Victim Support Finland and discussed this issue. They have certainly not said that it is wrong or stupid if children are also regarded as victims of crime. They are given stronger protection and greater opportunities to act in a different way formally. Not least, it is a signal to the judiciary and the police authorities. This is just a suggestion. We have put forward proposals and pushed the issue far below the alliance government in terms of national plans. We have discussed children's houses, we have made regional efforts, police efforts and also social services – this, of course, brought together to strengthen children's opportunities in the legal process.
i-Kx2iAuXF54wdu9CyukJq7q	Mr President, I would like to Today, as we know, we are debating in the Committee on Justice's report J u U22 Violent crime and crime victims. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. For our feminist government and its parties, gender equality is a fundamental element in the pursuit of a better society. Women and men should have the same opportunities to shape society and their own lives. Everyone should be able to live a safe life without crime. In order to strengthen gender equality, the Government has identified a number of different gender equality policy objectives in different spending areas. For the area of expenditure of the judiciary in particular, these objectives are to reduce the proportion of people in the population who become victims of violence in close relationships, to strengthen the capacity of the judiciary to intervene against threats and online violations, to increase the clearance of rapes, to provide adequate professional support for victims of sexual offences, to bring plaintiffs early into the process and to increase the proportion of women in the Police Office. In these areas, the government has taken or will take steps to increase gender equality. I will present a number of these measures in this debate. The objective of the government parties is to reduce the harm caused by crime and to ensure that the activities of crime victims are carried out in an efficient and legally secure manner with a high quality. The victim of a crime shall be adequately informed and treated by the judicial authorities. Civil society organisations are carrying out a very important and urgent task of supporting those affected by crime. Their work is an important complement to the activities of public authorities and municipalities. Steps towards these goals have been taken during the time that the Social Democrats and the Green Party have been in the government. For example, increased support has been given financially. As of 1 February 2015, the fee to the Victim Fund for offenders has changed from SEK 500 to SEK 800. From the same date, those serving their sentence in the form of intensive monitoring with a anklet will pay a fee of SEK 80 per day, up to SEK 10 600 during the execution period. The Government decided on 13 November 2015 that at least 75 per cent of the Victim Support Fund's funds will be allocated to organisations working with victim activities in civil society. In the past, this figure was 50%. In connection with the decision, the government stated that the need for funding for victim support activities of civil society is high, and competition for existing funds is fierce. Victim Support Finland and other organisations working to support victims of crime are doing a very important job. Through the decision, the Government wants to improve victim support activities such as victim support services, so that they are able to carry out long-term and high-quality work. Another valuable activity supported by long-term work is the women's shelters. The Government allocates SEK 100 million annually to help and support violent women over the next few years. Other measures are also of an investigative nature. The Government commissions Statskontoret to make proposals on how the governance of the ongoing national efforts in the area of men's violence against women can be more strategic, clear and sustainable. From the 2016 regulation letter to the county boards, it is clear that the county boards within their area of responsibility will support the coordination in the counties of actions from, for example, social services and health care. This will aim at combating men's violence against women, preventing children from witnessing violence, countering honour-related violence and repression, and countering prostitution and human trafficking for sexual purposes. The County Administrative Boards of Stockholm County, Skåne County and Västra Götaland County are also required to provide support for the development of sheltered housing for women affected by violence. Mr President, I would like to Another area that requires action and effort is the area of sex offences. In 2014, 20,300 sexual offences were reported. The reporting rate is remarkably low for this particular crime. The victims are often 16 - 24 - year - olds, and another characteristic is that it is mostly women. Being subjected to sexual acts against one's will can lead to long-term consequences for the victim, psychologically and physically. There is a need to strengthen the efforts of the judiciary in relation to these crimes. Increased clearance of rape is therefore one of the government's specifically identified gender equality goals. In order to achieve this, continued efforts are needed to improve both the way of working and the way of dealing with it. In an announcement to the previous government, the then Justice Committee called on the government to examine why so few rape reports lead to prosecution and conviction. This would eventually lead to the parliamentary committee dealing with the issue today. The review includes considering, inter alia, whether a new consent-based regulatory model for rape should be introduced and whether specific criminal liability for rape offences should be introduced. Legislation must show that all women have the right to their own body and that a no is a no. In addition, the investigation will examine and analyse how the judicial system handles rape cases and the appointment of plaintiffs. It shall also review any increases in penalties in the most serious cases. This will be reported in October this year. Current contact with children for sexual purposes can be mentioned as it has become more common as the Internet spreads and the use of the Internet has decreased in age. There is now a proposal in an investigation that the government hopes to be able to carry out shortly, namely to remove the props. It is a sort of proof that an adult who has actually made contact with a child for sexual purposes intends to meet the child. Evidence could be that the adult has booked a train ticket. With new legislation, this blunt legislation could be changed so that the agreement to be viewed for sexual purposes can be sufficient as evidence. Mr President, I would like to In addition to violence in close relationships and sexual crimes, there is another major problem in our society that also requires political attention, and that is honour-related violence and coercion. I come from Uppsala and remember very well the grief that struck not only the city but the whole country when Fadime was taken from us. Fadime wanted what all people really want: power over their own life, power over their own body and power to influence their destiny. These are fundamental wills, and these should be fundamental rights for all people. But it has not been something that women throughout history have been able to take for granted. There is nothing that can defend honor-related violence. No one should have their most secure environment transformed into a place of oppression and fear for their own lives. Several measures are being taken or investigated today to try to stop honour violence and repression. The 2016 regulation letter to the county administrative boards states that they will promote and provide support for efforts to combat honour-related violence and repression. The County Administrative Board of Östergötland is specifically responsible for the coordination and reporting of this assignment. What we can do in Sweden is to ensure that children who are here receive the protection and support they need. The government takes the work against forced marriage and child marriage very seriously. A child seeking asylum in Sweden together with an adult who is not a parent or equivalent should be treated as an unaccompanied refugee child. I welcome the fact that the Migration Agency is now working on clearer guidelines for matters of this nature and also has suggestions on how to strengthen cooperation between police, social services and municipalities. On behalf of the Government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has set up a telephone to support social services, which provides better opportunities for an equivalent assessment in these matters. In 2014, as previously reported, legal changes were made to forced marriages. However, despite the fact that 50 cases have been reported to the prosecutor since then, unfortunately, none of these cases have led to prosecution. The Prosecution Authority will therefore now be tasked with examining these matters in order to explain why this is the case. The government is also working on a proposal to criminalise the conspiracy of marriage. It has not been long since 2014, but when not a single case has led to prosecution something has to be done. No child in Sweden should have to be forced into a marriage. It is and remains incompatible with human rights and Swedish law not to be allowed to choose according to their heart, and practice in legislation should reflect this. With this in mind, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report.
i-761bbfb2f9b67f6b-1102	Mr President, I would like to We are in favour of all reservations, but for time-winning, I only agree to reservation 7. Today, violent crime and crime victims are the focus. Sweden is in many ways a very good country to live in. We have a legal system that works very well. However, that does not mean that we cannot do it better. The Christian Democrats have a comprehensive programme with a large number of points where we want to improve for victims. I will mention some of these. According to the Social Services Act, municipalities have a responsibility to provide support to victims and their relatives. In practice, however, municipalities make different interpretations. Some municipalities allow social services to provide assistance to victims of crime, which is unfortunate, since they mainly work with the perpetrators. We Christian Democrats believe that municipalities should be obliged to finance professional victim support, separate from social services. The support can be provided by employees of non-profit associations or by the municipality itself. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that municipalities should be obliged to offer mediation regardless of the age of the persons involved. Today, municipalities are guilty of this when the perpetrator is under 21 years of age. This means once again that the situation of the perpetrators is in focus. Mediation means that an perpetrator and a plaintiff meet before a mediator to talk about the crime and its consequences. It is also necessary to establish national coordination for mediation to clarify and follow up the tasks and responsibilities of the cooperating parties. Mr President, I would like to For victims of crime, information A and O. A decision by the police that a pre-trial investigation has been closed should include information on the grounds on which the decision has been taken and how to request that the decision be reviewed. That is not the case today. This should be changed. It is important that the activities of support centres for young victims are available throughout the country. The young victim receives a support person who can explain how the judicial system works and why, for example, prosecutors and courts act as they do. Children who are victims of violence or sexual abuse by someone close to them are at an enormous disadvantage. Society must be better at listening to the signals of children who are in bad shape and ready to act. Cooperation between the judiciary, healthcare and social services must work in such a way that the vulnerable child does not end up between the chairs. Therefore, children's houses are something that should be available throughout the country. Even if a child is not the victim of a crime, it may very much be a victim, especially in the case of domestic violence. Children who witness domestic violence must therefore be made more visible in legal proceedings. The damages awarded in Sweden are low both in an international perspective and in relation to what the public considers to be a reasonable level. The level of damage caused by criminal offences is not proportionate to the amounts imposed in connection with other types of violations. For example, a person may be refused entry into a restaurant on the basis of one of the grounds of discrimination.
