i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-2	Madam President, I would like So we are going to debate the Transport Committee's report No 19 on IT issues. IT issues are a new and important cog in the political machinery. They become even more important and take on more expressions. For those who listen to this debate, it may seem strange that it is the Transport Committee that is debating IT issues, so for the sake of clarity, I will make it clear that IT issues in this context are primarily about IT communications issues and not as much about digitisation as one might have wished. But there are many other committees that help us to take advantage of those elements of the benefits of the cyber-revolution. The roll-out of broadband is very important in the communication part. There is a broad consensus here. In much of what we are debating today, there is a broad consensus, but there may be some differences in ambition. We all share the view that it is important for the fibre expansion or expansion of the corresponding broadband speed to be shared by all. We have a broadband target for 90% of our households and businesses by 2020 to be able to connect to 100 megabits per second or more, and we have come a long way. There are some obstacles that we are discussing in this report. One of these obstacles is the so-called localisation principle. It is the rule that municipal companies, such as an urban network, are only entitled and able to operate within the municipality's geographical area that owns the company. This may not be properly adapted to how to build efficient data networks and how to effectively reach high-speed broadband to places close to a municipal border. On one side of the municipal border there is a city network but not on the other, and it is far to the central town. Of course, this kind of administrative border should not be an obstacle to the efficient roll-out of broadband. That is why there are proposals from the Alliance to review the location principle. Unfortunately, this is rejected by the majority of committees. There are also fibres laid out in our country which are owned by state-owned companies but which do not fully benefit society. Two such companies are Trafikverket and Svenska Kraftnät. Large amounts of computer fibre have been added to control the facilities within these organisations. It's about rail and high-voltage lines. These are isolated systems which only partially benefit the market and consumers. In the report, the Alliance puts forward a proposal on how this can be done even more quickly, and there is an investigation in this area. Unfortunately, we did not get support for this in committee. Data communication takes place not only with fibre but increasingly wirelessly. Wireless technology is making constant technological leaps, and data, in particular, can be transmitted more and more quickly. The new 5G band is on its way, and operators say you can have the first parts up and in use in 2018. The 5G band will mainly have to make use of the 700-band and 800-band frequency spaces. There is therefore a process of releasing the 700 band from terrestrial television so that it can be used for this kind of communication instead. It is important that the auction conducted by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency is allowed to continue. It is also important that this is done in a way that promotes good competition in the telecoms market and that allows Sweden to continue to be a success nation in terms of the expansion of IT communications infrastructure and the use of our frequency spectrum. We must do this together with our neighbouring countries because radio signals tend not to respect national borders and disturb each other if they are not coordinated. Such work is also under way. It is also important that the coverage requirements of the auction to be conducted by the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency remain an important part. It may also be a guiding principle for future auctions. So to the really interesting European phenomenon that is now being suppressed: data roaming. Here we would like the government to have a clearer line towards Europe and in the discussions that are taking place there so that we can have proper regulation of wholesale prices. Even if we set a price cap for what it costs to call, text, mms and use data traffic abroad, it risks coming on everyone's phone bills anyway if the issue is not dealt with at wholesale level. This is an important step we must continue to take. The government must be clear in its communication on this, and we cannot lose momentum. The IT policy is like a shark, and stops the shark swimming it starts to sink. If we stop making proposals and be active in IT policies, we will start to fall in rankings and become worse compared to other countries and nations. We must be a nation at the forefront of these issues. This calls for clear ambitions. However, I do not know where they have gone. The consensus between government parties and opposition is good, but if it is based only on the current government managing the policy that the previous government started, it is not keeping pace with technological developments and digitalisation, which are currently at a very high pace. I look forward to a new IT minister taking hold of this and that we can have a good dialogue in good spirit between government parties and opposition parties in order to take this forward. Madam President, I would like Of course, we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation No 1.
i-3jvQJhWXG13uSSisHT2SxY	Madam President, I would like I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2. Hey! It was better before they always told me when I started at the port. But is that so? I remember when I was 12 to 13 years old and had saved my allowance so that I could buy a VIC 64 from Commodore. I had a cassette tape recorder and had the help of the number counter play so that I could get the right game. That was awesome. My friends had a 128 disk, but I couldn't afford it. But I had to be there out of envy. A couple of years later, around the age of the mop, I had saved up even more money and could afford to buy an Amiga 500 with floppy disk that you could run right into the computer. It was awesome technique. There was also an Atari who was a competitor. But my friends had an Amiga, so I drove the same way. Back then, it was like a computer game. I didn't have access to any Internet. About the time I bought an Amiga, my uncle Ulf was a carpenter and self-employed. He had bought a giant package, a phone with NMT technology. It cost 50 000 kroner. I can see why it was called a car phone. You couldn't take it with you. Many years later, about the time I was 19 years old and had started at the port, I had saved up enough money to buy my own phone. I didn't have to sit at home waiting for calls or make calls to people who were never home. That was really cool. A little later, from 1995 to 1996, the state had an ambition that IT technology would develop and that people would have access to the internet. Then they had a tax-funded purchase of rental computers through the workplace. I bought my first computer for about $5,000. I think it had a memory of 2 – 4 gigabytes. Then they also had modem connection which was terribly uncertain and slow. In 1998 Jonas Birgersson joined the Bredbandsbolaget. That's when things started to happen. As early as 1999, Jonas signed a contract with HSB. About 350 000 households had contracts with the Bredbandsbolaget. It was about 10 per cent of the total number of multi-family dwellings that had access to good internet. Telia saw this with horror and immediately countered investing 1.4 billion in the IT project. Later, in the early 2000s, a company named 3 was set up, driving hard with 3G technology. I was lyrical because I love technology. I bought a phone with 3G technology so I could look at the one I was talking to. Ma n didn't have to wear it by the ear, you could see. The problem was that I was so early with technology that I didn't have anyone to talk to and watch. So I bought another phone. That's awesome. My partner had one, and I had one. The problem was that the coverage rate was so bad that when I was in the harbour working I had no reception, so they were completely useless. It's gotten a lot better. Was it better before? No, I wouldn't say that. At least not in the IT industry. We need to have high ambitions for payment services so that traders can manage their business online. Like car traffic, we should have a zero vision. Maybe it shouldn't be just a zero vision in it, because it's going to be really wrong. It should be in the other direction, an ambition level of 100 percent. At least we can have it as a vision. The national broadband strategy was already established in 2009. It was the government's goal that 90 per cent would have broadband in at least 100 megabits per second. We Swedish democrats would like to see this level of ambition raised even if it looks very uncertain. I have brought with me a small table from PTS that I have looked at. The best connections are in the Stockholm area and the surrounding area. Sundbyberg has nearly 97 per cent, and Stockholm Municipality generally has 96 per cent. In Gothenburg and Malmö it is also around 88 per cent. It is already at the targets. Large parts of Norrland have reasonably high capacity. But we also have horror examples. In Malung and Sälen, for example, it is only 3 percent. There we have a pretty great need for the internet for shoppers and others with a view to skiind ustri and more. Only 3% has 100 megabits per second. There's something to do.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Ståhl, for an interesting historical flashback. It is certainly history, but it is a very close story that we just got described. Madam President, I would like A well-developed broadband infrastructure is crucial for people to be able to run businesses, work, participate in cultural activities and study remotely. In today's highly digitised society, access to broadband is, in many respects, an absolute prerequisite for being able to communicate, access information, participate in an information flow and benefit from an ever-growing range of internet-based services. In short: A stable and capable connection is a prerequisite for work, education, cultural experiences, contact with other people but also safety in everyday life. It is a prerequisite that applies throughout the country. In recent years, we have witnessed a very strong development which has provided a better and increasingly developed service to large sections of the population, but which has also been of crucial importance for a successful economy. In view of this, we obviously need to make more efforts to ensure that all inhabitants – in Malung, in Swedish rural areas, but also in the peripheral areas of the larger population centres – have even better access to broadband. If we do not support it and do not grant all parts of the country and all the people of that country the same right of access to telecommunications and data communications, it is the same as not granting all parts of the country or all the people of that country the same rights and conditions for work, education, culture, social contacts, security, etc. Madam President, I would like I cannot imagine anyone in this House saying that not all parts of the country and not all the people living in that country should have the same conditions. The Internet as a title in the field of technology and broadband as an expression of the same is about precisely the conditions and the lack of them. It's about removing it. It is against this background that I, as the representative of the Center Party in the debate, want information technology, IT, to be regarded as the fifth and new mode of transport in our country, along with road, rail, maritime and air transport, when we plan and allocate funds for community-building transport infrastructure. It is for the same reason that we in this House annually allocate billions – 50, 60 and 70 billion a year – to build roads, railways, and more. It is for exactly the same reason that we also need to get the funds and the power up and give the same people access to the internet. It is about giving the same conditions to all people and businesses in this country. The developments in the field of IT are such that they have a very profound impact on all other modes of transport. It is also, in many respects, a prerequisite for the future development of traditional modes of transport. Broadband and mobile telephony reduce distances between people and enable services. It is also possible to complement and, above all, make transport and communications more efficient. It can support technology development and increase the capacity of traditional modes of transport. Above all, it may also make climate benefits or reduce the footprints of traditional modes of transport, so that we can achieve a climate-neutral transport policy much faster if we seriously integrate it into transport policy. By considering IT – information technology – as the fifth mode of transport when planning transport infrastructure, it is my firm conviction and the Center Party's firm conviction that the allocation of resources to the IT area will increase, thereby improving the opportunities for exploiting the potential of information technology to be greater than it is today. Madam President, I would like Access to good mobile telephony, the call, is becoming increasingly important. Our common understanding is that Sweden needs a mobile network with an even better geographical range and with a capacity that meets the needs of the future, as more and more people will demand and consume precisely mobile technology. The state is present through my mobile phone. I can even do the most important thing in life — declare — through my mobile phone. I'm an adult, I'm a citizen, and I'm doing the right thing through my cell phone. Then there is reason to recall the very successful policy of the Alliance Government in this area, when we implemented a wide range of measures to improve mobile coverage. Examples include reformed legislation, improved information and stronger consumer legislation. A strategically important decision was to release the bandwidth or radio spectrum in the ether previously used for terrestrial television for the benefit of mobile telephony services. It is a work that we know is going on, and we recently received a report from the government that the intentions and work of the alliance government in this area are being pursued. Nevertheless, there is reason to stress that work needs to be speeded up in order to provide better conditions for good mobile telephony and fast mobile broadband, not least if we have the ambition to be able to work in all parts of our country. That is why, Madam President, we emphasise in a joint reservation the need to free up the space in what is known as the 700-megahertz band, a band with very good surface coverage, which, in combination with coverage requirements, will be of particular benefit to rural inhabitants by hopefully reducing the number of white spots on operators' coverage maps. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to support the proposal in the report, except in those parts where the alliance parties or the Center Party have made a reservation, but for time to come, I only ask for reservations 1 and 4.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-49	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, although we in the Liberals naturally support all our reservations. When I'm here in Stockholm during the weeks, I keep in touch with my children a lot via Skype. Right now, me and my daughter are reading the Kulla-Gulla Kulla-Gulla-serien. It doesn't feel very new, but it's still quite interesting. She likes it, and I like it, too. It's a trip down memory lane, which we were in here before. She calls me back when it's time to sleep, puts the iPad next to her so I see her and she sees me, and I read until it's time to sleep. We also do homework so, show off various bruises and drawings. Thanks to the network and technology, we can have pretty good contact, even though I'm gone almost all week. We can also end the conversation by stretching our arms and showing how much we like each other – we can both see and hear each other. Digitization is fast. Modern IT systems, apps and social media have gradually replaced traditional methods and working methods. That is a rapid development. In the near future, we will see a strong emergence of new IT services in more and more areas of society. Properly used, this can both streamline and relieve many professions. Not least, digitalisation and efficiency in healthcare have great potential. Digital tools will, among other things, be able to offer digital doctor visits and better information sharing, and it can, as I said, streamline working methods, shorten waiting times and save more lives in the long run. That is why the development of IT infrastructure is so important. We in the committee agree on this. We just want a little more, a little faster. Young people today generally have somewhat better knowledge of it than year-long and use the technology to a slightly greater extent, although use is increasing among all – including the year-rich. More and more people are using the Internet to keep in touch with relatives and friends around the world, just like me and my children. The Internet is used to retrieve information, to keep up-to-date on what is happening in the world, to make financial transactions and purchases. All generations throughout Sweden use the internet in much the same way. The Internet is such a big part of everyday life that without being able to get online you are placed outside a large part of the community. Unfortunately, it is often the younger generation that leaves the countryside for the city, where there is good access to networks. That is why the development of IT infrastructure is so important. Without measures, we risk digital exclusion. We Liberals believe that this is urgent. We want to lower the digital thresholds. In our budget exercise this spring, we made an effort to bridge the digital divides for year-long. We wanted to give municipalities the opportunity to apply for grants from the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency for actions aimed at the year-long period. This with the internet and it is not a fly. There are great opportunities for increased participation and contact between people. We want Sweden to be the foremost IT nation. It also means that we should be the world's most inclusive IT nation. I'm not the only one who should be able to read with my children. My father, the children's grandfather, who lives on an archipelago island, should also be able to do so. He too should be able to take part in bruises and drawings and be able to read fairy tales and by stretching out the arms show: I like you this much. That is why the development of IT infrastructure is so important.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-58	Madam President, I would like Sweden is now one of the world's leading IT nations, and we quickly became an Internet nation. Large national, regional, local and private investors have contributed to today's expanded infrastructure in this area, which has served us well. The objective is, and has been, that all households and businesses should have good opportunities to make use of efficient, safe and robust electronic communications services and services via broadband and a developed broadband infrastructure in rural areas, as well as in urban areas. Political decisions and private entrepreneurs have laid the foundations for several of the strong IT companies that have been founded and are growing in Sweden and that contribute to jobs and growth and strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. International competition for IT services is high. We must continue to develop and grow as an IT nation in order not to lose competitiveness. To do this requires a fast and secure broadband that is available to as many people as possible. Madam President, I would like In order for Sweden to remain a strong IT nation, the Alliance Government set the target of 90 per cent of all households and companies having access to broadband of at least 100 megabits per second by 2020 and that Sweden should have world-class broadband and set aside additional resources for further roll-out of broadband across the country to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. Madam President, I would like There is more that can be done to increase access to broadband in Sweden. It is important to open up and make available the 700 ‐ megahertz band for mobile communication next year. It will increase capacity and accessibility throughout the country, mainly in rural areas. It is important that the work continues and that the frequency space can be used by 2017. In connection with the allocation of the 700-megahertz band, it is also important to meet the needs of the blue light authorities. Madam President, I would like In order to increase the availability of fibre networks and strengthen Sweden's competitiveness in this area, we Christian Democrats want government fibre networks to be made available to the market. Swedish power grids and Trafikverket are located on nationwide fibre optic networks that are not fully utilised. Using the full potential of these networks would mean that 90% of households will have access to fibre broadband. Madam President, I would like We in the Alliance have stated that the principle of localisation is in the way of municipal networks that want to offer fibre solutions to residents of other municipalities. Local government borders are far from always consistent with natural broadband expansion limits. A rapid revision of the Local Government Act is needed in order for the localisation principle not to stand in the way of further broadband roll-out. A similar adjustment has already taken place for energy companies and proved effective. For more broadband and access to fibre broadband, the same adjustment should be made for municipal urban networks. Madam President, I would like For the Christian Democrats, it is important that the EU's internal market also becomes a digital single market. Mobile broadband is becoming increasingly important for many. This was finally realised within the European Union and regulation of roaming charges for consumers was introduced. However, the current regulatory framework for roaming is limited to the charges to be paid by the end user. Wholesale prices charged by operators are still unregulated. The abolition of roaming charges in the EU is a crucial stage in the completion of the Digital Single Market. We in the Alliance are proposing a similar regulation of wholesale prices to consumer prices. With regulated consumer prices, but unregulated wholesale prices, operators whose customers travel the most would be penalised the most. This does not promote free movement and the internal market. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats want to see a continued focus on broadband coordinators in the counties for a more efficient roll-out of broadband. Broadband coordinators increase cooperation between different actors, public and private, in order to achieve a more coordinated and faster broadband roll-out in the country. The Bredband coordinators have an important task. They are needed to support municipalities and local initiatives, to create networks and to establish synergies within and between different actors to facilitate broadband deployment. Madam President, I would like A growing Swedish IT sector is important for economic growth, skills supply and for reducing unemployment. For a country to succeed in the IT sector, far-reaching and ongoing efforts are needed on broadband roll-out and mobile broadband solutions. The IT sector requires the best of the conditions for success and is of great importance for growth, as it operates in a global market where headquarters can move rapidly. It is up to us politicians to make it easier for the industry to grow. Madam President, I would like I commend the Alliance's joint reservation 1 and the Christian Democrats' reservation 7.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-71	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating both IT policy issues and the Government proposal on cheaper broadband deployment. It is a proposal based on the EU's roll-out directive. It is a directive aimed at facilitating the deployment of broadband networks and reducing the cost of both fixed and wireless broadband deployment. It is very much a case forward in order to bring about cheaper broadband networks. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that a united committee supports the Government's proposal. This directive is implemented not only here in Sweden but also in the rest of Europe's countries. This, of course, raises the requirements for us in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Today is preschool day. This morning when I left my youngest daughter at preschool, the whole farm was decorated with garlands and balloons. Music was also streamed on the farm through someone's smartphone. Preschool Ipads – they have several – were used to document everyday life, as every day, in order to make us parents present in our children's everyday lives even though we are not physically in place. I have four children with quite a spread. The oldest was born in 1994. It was the same year that two Heads of Government ever sent e-mails to each other. It was the then Swedish Prime Minister Carl Bildt and then President Bill Clinton of the United States. It can be said that a great deal has happened since then. Just look at your own mailbox. My second child was born in 2001. Between these years, 1994 and 2001, the pace of development has been raging. The broadband has made an entrance, and the internet has gone from being a fly to being available to 60 percent of the population. At the time, as much as 50 percent stated that they had access to the Internet at home. It was also in 2001 that Wikipedia started, which today is basically the world's encyclopedia. My third child was born in 2003. It was the same year that 3G technology and Skype came. It was also the year that Pirate Bay was launched, and until quite recently has actually dominated the political debate in the context of IT policy and also cut a rather sharp line between the young generation and the more established. Agnes, my fourth child's name, is almost four years old. Already as a one-year-old she handled both plate and smartphones. Today she freely switches between different streaming services, between games and Youtube. And her preschool, as I mentioned earlier, makes sure that I am present in her daily life all the time. The big debate a few years ago, which was about file sharing services, she will probably never hear of, unless she Googles on it and uses Wikipedia. She won't get in touch with it. From the birth of our first child until the birth of the fourth, access to the Internet in the population has increased from about 2% in 1995 to 89% in 2012. It has gone, and will in all probability continue to go, at a furious rate. Madam President, I would like The overall objective of IT policy is that Sweden should be the best in the world to seize the opportunities of digitalisation. It is an objective that is binding. Today, from an international perspective, we have good conditions for taking and maintaining the position that we have, despite our geographical conditions. Did you know that our country has 21 inhabitants per square kilometre, while Germany, for example, has 230 inhabitants on the same surface? The challenges will be extremely great for us as we develop broadband infrastructure in our sparsely populated country. To be perfectly honest, I believe that in the future we need a number of progressive reforms in order to maintain and develop our position. We haven't got it for free. The position that Sweden has today is based on previous Social Democratic reforms – reforms such as the home-pc reform that allowed ordinary people to rent, borrow or buy a computer tax-free and Rosengrens money that was set aside in 2002 with the aim that municipalities that for market reasons were not interesting for broadband companies would still have the opportunity to give their residents access to fast internet access. Both of these reforms were dismantled by the former bourgeois government. To be perfectly honest, I would like to say that politics has not actually contributed so much ever since. Therefore, it is also a little distressing when you look at the reservations that exist in this matter, because they really mean nothing. We really have the same policy right now. What you are doing is highlighting the work of the previous government as if it were the solution to the challenges of the future. I don't think that's enough. It is precisely the absence of long-term reforms that is why we are now losing our ranking in terms of network use and digital services. We have long topped up those kinds of accounts, but the latest figures from the European Commission show that we are being re-run. Basic is precisely the need for and access to high-speed broadband. It has been the core of our success in Sweden. The fact that Stockholm is today one of the world's leading start-up scenes is based on forward-looking politicians making cross-block agreements that the IT infrastructure should be open and accessible to everyone. That's where the challenges lie. How are we going to get fast and accessible broadband for everyone? It is about giving all children the same opportunities in the future. It is about all young people being able to participate in the social life that takes place online, and it is about Sweden being able to compete on the international stage in the future. Digitalisation really affects society as a whole. It is the fuel of the transformations we will see in the future, whether we like it or not. Our neighbours run by and about us if we don't bet. They do. They are investing more and more resources. In this perspective, it is almost presumptuous that we are actually debating in this House about trifles rather than focusing on which decisions will be the strategic ones in order to regain the lead and live up to the objective stated by the Riksdag that Sweden should be the best in the world to seize the opportunities of digitalisation. Madam President, I would like Digitalisation and IT policies face the real major challenges of participation, democracy, equality, health care, school, the labour market and, not least, business and future jobs. Here are the possibilities for the future. Sweden cannot be content with being a mediocre in Europe. But if we want more, it's gonna take us to actually step up. I support both the proposal and the proposal contained in the committee's report TU19.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-92	Madam President, I would like This was a rather quiet debate with a total consensus until the representative of the government party, Teres Lindberg, asked for the floor and gave a rather interesting historical exposé and reflection on it – possibly with social democratic blinders – which concluded that everything that has happened in the field of IT, at least if we limit ourselves to our part of the world, has happened thanks to and because of social democratic governments. I do not share that conclusion. I had possibly expected, Madam President, that a representative of a government party in a government that currently lacks an IT minister had somehow shown the momentum of what the government wants, intends to do and has plans to face the future. Not a word about this. As a nation, we have now lost the leading position we had in Europe and the world as an IT nation. On this point, I share Teres Lindberg's analysis. We have white spots on the IT map both in terms of geography and inhabitants, but the interesting thing is that the IT policy administered by the current Social Democratic and Environmental Party government is exactly the same as that of former Minister Anna-Anna-Karin Hatt in October 2014. Since then, Madam President, a syllable has not changed or been brought to bear on the future challenges. Now we write 2016. What is the vision of the Social Democrats, the next strategic step, to meet the challenges in the IT field that Teres Lindberg just addressed?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-96	Madam President, I would like I'll have to apologize to Anders Åkesson if he understood that I dissed the work that the previous government did. They did a lot of good things, not least with setting up a strategy for IT policy and also setting the goal that we should be the best in the world to meet the challenges of digitalisation. I think it's been good. I also think that the 90% target was good to set. There was a need for a goal. But for me personally, that's too low. Nothing but 100% can stand up to a democracy, because basically access to broadband and fast connectivity is about democracy. Then it must be everywhere and be accessible to everyone. Right now we are at a crossroads where the government works within the framework of the Digitalization Commission. They also work within the framework of the investigation that the previous government set up on state fibre networks and more efficient use of state broadband infrastructure. One of the travelling nations highlighted here today is about that. They submitted their final report at the beginning of the year, which is now being referred and hopefully will come to us here in Parliament in due course. It is a little presumptuous that the reservations we see here are about issues on which we really agree. The only ambition that the opposition has with them is to highlight an announcement to say that the government will do what the government is already doing. That's more like what I meant. If Anders Åkesson understood that I said that the previous government did no good at all, Anders Åkesson understood wrong, because I think they did a lot of good things too.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-100	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the former alliance government, I thank you for your recognition, Teres Lindberg. It was an extremely historyless description that Lindberg began with. But so good then– then we know that this government's ambition is 100% coverage of IT in our country in terms of geography and citizens. Thank you for that message! Only the detailed questions remain: to what capacity, at what cost and when and in what way does this government intend to address this ambition? It is now announced, by Teres Lindberg. We have not received any such ambition in Parliament's Transport Committee or by a statement by former IT Minister or current acting Minister – if I have not missed it. In the debate that has taken place here today, some of us have raised the need to assert the 700 spectrum and possibly to protect it from interests other than telecommunications and data communications, thereby reaching a bit on the way to 100% coverage. As a representative of the Center Party, I am raising the idea, the vision, about it as the fifth mode of transport and thus making it an option in a flow of 50-60 billion SEK a year instead of a gutter of 3.7 billion in seven years as it is right now. It would have been exciting, Madam President, to have a government representative's reflection on the progressive proposals. How will the government approach government eGovernment, where neighbouring countries are far ahead? How will the government deal with future procurements and auctions of the 700 band that will soon be out? It would have been very exciting to have this reported, either by acting minister or by government representatives on this issue. But Teres Lindberg has a chance here and now.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-105	Madam President, I would like I want to be clear and underline that I deliberately said that it is I personally who would like to see a 100% target. Of course, such an objective must also be linked to resources, but it is resources that none of the parliamentary parties have set aside in their budgets. Let us be clear there! The government is working on the assignment of the 700-band, which Anders Åkesson also knows about, and is working not least very intensively with the e-government right now. We will come back with reports on what is happening on these issues, which do not, however, primarily concern the work of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. Rather, it is about how this affects healthcare and care in different ways and how it affects the interaction between our government administrations. There is intensive work going on right now, and I think Anders Åkesson himself is quite familiar with that work.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-107	Madam President, I would like However, our current government has essentially only allowed the work of the previous government to be tough on without proposals and ambitions that move us forward. I am not the one who claims this, but it is Teres Lindberg who wrote it in a debate article in Ny Teknik. It's time to jacket up the IT policy! I am not the one who claims that, but it is Teres Lindberg who wrote it in the debate article. Teres Lindberg is the only representative of the Social Democrats to be registered for this debate. Her party has been in government for two years. She saws the government's policy along with the ankles and claims that it does not contain any proposals and ambitions that move us forward. In committee, however, she does not propose any sharp wording in any of the areas where she herself now stands and shows her commitment. None of this can be found in Parliament's documents, unless the minutes that will be published after today's debate are taken into account. I think there were many of us who began to browse the agenda and the list of speakers to see if the party name remained behind Teres Lindberg's name. It does, I can tell all those who haven't had time to check yet. In fact, I have to ask Teres Lindberg: when will the delivery of all the beautiful things we have heard here? I hear criticism of the opposition because we do not have enough forward-looking ideas. I hear criticism of the government because it does not have enough forward-looking ideas. But in the committee, where Teres Lindberg is IT-responsible in the party that is the largest in the committee, the largest in the government and the largest in the Riksdag, there is almost nothing. Her speech was also clinically clear on suggestions for how this could be carried out.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-111	Madam President, I would like I thank Erik Ottoson very much for his reply. Sweden is at a crossroads. We, as elected representatives, must be able to see what is lacking in society, in this case in the context of IT policy, and move the issues forward. And it is we who are elected, not the government. The government is set up to work and make proposals, and there are a lot of investigations going on. Of course that's not exactly the same thing. Then, Erik Ottoson, both you and I know it is about resources, budgets and priorities. It's not always one gets one's personal will through. I would like to see an up-roaring of IT policy. I would like to see us change the previous government's 90% target to 100%. But it also requires resources – resources that I have not been able to untie in the discussions I have had with the government. It is absolutely a government whose values I support. But in the priority of resources, we have not been in full agreement. If Erik Ottoson believes that we as Members of Parliament and elected representatives should not be able to express our views, that one should not be able to have the slightest amount of criticism of a government if one is of the same party color, then I have a completely different opinion from Erik Ottoson about what democracy is and what a Member of Parliament's responsibilities and duties are.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-115	Madam President, I would like I believe that Teres Lindberg and I really share the view of what democracy is. There is, however, another very important dimension in democracy: some kind of responsibility and ability to answer for what you think and the questions you ask. Teres Lindberg rightly says that she has not succeeded with her own ambitions. Then I wonder: if Teres Lindberg only represents himself, where is the government's representative in this debate? I would very much like to discuss with someone who represents the government's view on these issues. However, no such person seems to be reported for today's debate, unless Teres Lindberg stands for something more than just his own views. It will be a very difficult discussion for all of us. Perhaps Teres Lindberg has not got through all the wording that she had wanted to get through in committee. I imagine that they have been filtered through the Social Democratic Committee first. But then, after all, she had the opportunity to propose something to the committee, so we might have been able to make a common cause of her various ideas and proposals. We haven't had that opportunity. She sounds very ambitious, and I think I can say that most of us are also quite ambitious. Then let us find common points of contact and put the government in place! Teres Lindberg talks about democracy. One of our democratic prerequisites for putting the government in place is announcements, but she has not proposed any. These are words in Parliament's minutes, nothing else. When's the shipment coming? And what is the government's policy in this in addition to the policy in force until 2014? I'm being extremely perplexed. At best, we can hope for some kind of response from Teres Lindberg's colleague in the environmental committee. I guess I had to assume that the biggest government party would have some kind of answer anyway.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-120	Madam President, I would like This is probably the dilemma. The opposition parties have quite high tail movements. They put forward a number of reservations on issues where there are really no conflicts. Perhaps the great dilemma is the lack of progressive proposals. A great deal of work is going on at the Government Office, not least within the framework of various investigations and within the framework of the Digitalisation Commission. They will eventually make proposals that will hopefully advance the positions. The dilemma here and in the debate is that there is nothing concrete. You have reservations because the last government was so good. That is what is evident from your own reservation. You set aside 3.25 billion to expand broadband across the country. That's exactly what the government is doing too! That's why this whole discussion is so strange. Instead, let us focus in the future on the progressive solutions we need to advance the positions and regain the lead as cyber-nation in the world. We have been there, but now we are losing ground because we have not been progressive enough in the last two terms of office. Instead, let us shake hands and make sure that that is where we come in the future.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-123	Madam President, I would like The fact that Sweden will be the best in the world to seize the opportunities of digitalisation is something that tends to come back in this kind of debate context. We should be happy about this, because it means that there is a broad consensus on the high level of ambition that Sweden should have in IT policy. Ever since the home-pc reform in the 1990s, Sweden has been at the forefront in exploiting new technologies for the benefit of consumers and businesses as well as government authorities. A clear demand for digital products, creative entrepreneurs, a good education system and a well-functioning infrastructure have all worked together so that companies such as Spotify and Mojang have emerged in Sweden. A leading position in digital development creates jobs with good export opportunities, which strengthens the Swedish economy, but digital accessibility is also increasingly a welfare and democracy issue. Citizens increasingly expect a well-developed digital service, both in terms of infrastructure itself and in terms of the functioning of public authorities' digital services, easy to understand and accessible to all. A household without good connectivity has more difficulty with everything from enjoying the daily media offering to doing banking services or working from home. It is therefore essential that good connectivity should benefit the entire population. The national broadband strategy states that the target is for at least 90% of the population to have access to 100 megabits per second by 2020 and the other at least 30 megabits per second. The Government will contribute to this by creating good conditions for the market and interacting and conducting dialogue with companies through, for example, broadband forums. The Authority's estimates indicate that Sweden will exceed the target set. Currently, 93 - 96 percent of the population is expected to have at least 100 megabits per second by 2020. It is also worth noting that among those groups that traditionally do not use the Internet to a great extent, such as the elderly, the use of the Internet increases significantly, which is of course something to be welcomed. The Digitalisation Commission has presented several proposals on how digital participation can further increase, which the government is now preparing. To ensure a good digital service throughout the country, the government implements a number of measures, including the issue of cheaper broadband deployment. By coordinating different construction projects, significant resources can be saved and more broadband added. The Bredband coordinators continue their work to support local communities that lack sufficient connectivity. The government is also reviewing the so-called location principle in the context of the overall review in the IT policy area to ensure that bureaucracy does not interfere with the possibilities of expanding broadband networks in the most cost-effective ways. Also in terms of telephony, work is under way, and Sweden will gradually start using the 700-megahertz band, which will increase the coverage rate in the country. Sweden is relatively early on this issue, which means that we need to adapt our transition to our neighbours. Nevertheless, the impact should start to be felt in the coming years for many mobile users in sparsely populated areas. To sum up, there is broad agreement that Sweden should be at the forefront of IT policy, and the proposals presented by the government are sufficient a long way along the way to achieve it. With that, Madam President, I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-132	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Schröder, for an objective and well thought-out speech, as befits a representative of a government party! I think that Anders Schröder gave a good account of the various things that are currently taking place within the Government Office. In the past, I have had many debates in the field of IT in the form of interpellation debates with his party colleague, Mehmet Kaplan, who has dealt with the IT issues until a little while ago. What I am curious about is the environmental party's long-term ambitions in the field of IT. I know that Anders Schröder is a person who is very familiar with these issues. I imagine that he has had a lot of dialogues with his party colleagues and has an idea on this. I would like to hear a little more about what the Green Party wants in IT policy and how Anders Schröder believes it will be possible to deliver in the not too distant future. There is nothing in any motions on Parliament's table. There have been no direct proposals during the time Anders Schröder's party colleague has been Minister for IT, with the exception of the EU directives that have needed to be implemented in the meantime. That is why these questions arise, not least in contrast to the fiery commitment of some of the representatives of the Social Democrats. If Anders Schröder is willing to join that train, I am sure we can have a cross-block agreement on bold targets, which we can help to finance together. Does Anders Schröder think that would be an opportunity?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-137	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. This goal thing is a little complex. We all have, I hope, visions and ideas for how we would like to develop Sweden and Swedish IT policy. Then it is about how visionary these goals are and at what rate we believe we can achieve them. Of course I have my own ideas. I would like to see an increased use of digital tools so that, for example, we can reduce travel, which saves on the environment. I have thoughts about how welfare can take advantage of the opportunities of digitalisation so that more people have access to good welfare. I have many different thoughts about this, but they will also be realized. We can set great goals for all these things, but they won't be worth much if we don't have a concrete plan to reach them. That is where the challenge and responsibility lies with us as politicians – both the government and the opposition – when it comes to presenting how we want to realise the goals. As we were in the debate, we are quite in agreement. There is no one against broadband or better coverage, but the challenge is about how we can achieve this in the best way. There we have a continuous dialogue with the government. I hope that those of you who are in opposition will also feel compelled to come up with constructive and concrete proposals on how we can achieve the objectives on which I believe we agree.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Schröder! It was a responsible response that testifies to a government ability that could possibly send signals to Rosenbad about who should become the next IT minister. I have no idea how this is done, but I have a supplementary question. Anders Schröder describes how tricky it is to set goals that one should then be able to achieve and how important it is to still have good ambitions in this area. Out of curiosity: Has there been any dialogue between Anders Schröder and representatives of the Social Democrats to press for the government from the committee's perspective, a little in the spirit that we heard when Teres Lindberg was in the speaker's chair?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-144	Madam President, I would like Both Teres Lindberg and I are constantly having a dialogue with our representatives in the Government Office, on coordination and so on. That's how a government party works. We conduct discussions with the people within our respective parties that we want to be able to influence. Often we have common agendas, and hopefully that leads to results. As Teres was at work, a number of investigations are under way now. We'll see what they land in and evaluate them. Politics is sometimes, as everyone here knows, a rather slow and cumbersome process. We'll wait for them.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-146	Madam President, I would like It, as we have talked about here, is an important part of the infrastructure, especially in the future, and must be seen as a fundamental part of the construction of our society. We must ensure the proper functioning of the Internet so that we can maintain important, supporting societal functions, such as civil protection and other public activities, and ensure that there is a secure and stable capacity allocation to them, continuously. This is a new form of infrastructure. We need to think a little new here and perhaps review regulations to build society stable so that it is the most important features that go first, not play, games and such things. We also need them, and there should be Internet access for such reasons. But here it is important to let the most important go first. The more we get rid of paper-based archives and other communication routes, the more important it is to ensure that the internet works. The Left Party thinks it is good to have an ambitious broadband target of 90 per cent of all households having good coverage by 2020, but we would like to see that the remaining 10 per cent of Sweden's population also have access to high-speed broadband. We therefore believe that the government should come back with proposals on how the entire population of Sweden can access this. We have reacted to a new regulatory framework coming from the EU on deteriorating conditions for receiving financial support for broadband roll-out under the rural development programme. This delays the expansion of smaller towns and, unfortunately, ultimately affects rural inhabitants and the business community. In the previous programming period, it was possible to apply for assistance to areas with a agglomeration of up to 3 000 inhabitants. Now it will no longer be possible to do so, and the aid will only be paid to towns with a maximum of 200 inhabitants. This is causing problems. The new border will cause a slower expansion. We therefore believe that the government should review this and change the system back to what it was like in the past. Another problem that has emerged recently is that fixed telephony has been dismantled while the mobile network has not been sufficiently expanded. This shows that it is difficult to hand over such important social functions to individual companies. We would need to balance this better and have a stronger control of how we can accommodate that everyone in Sweden has access to a telephone network. As a country, we must be able to guarantee such an important function. It is both about being able to communicate with relatives and about how to do it in a crisis situation. We think that the state should review this, take a strong stance on it and provide better guarantees. We would also like to increase the allocation of resources by introducing a 1% charge for all operators when they extend mobile telephony. Turnover would then be funded in order to contribute to a better guarantee of coverage in those parts of the country where it is not commercially viable to expand the infrastructure. Here we need to go in as a society and redistribute resources so that they end up where they are needed. At a time when we are worried about the climate, it is very important to have a community planning where we reduce transport and travel more with efficient modes of transport such as public transport, including trains, and expand the possibilities to reduce transport needs. This is where it comes in. It is therefore important that we work constructively together and come up with ideas on how we can develop IT policy and ensure good functionality. I commend our reservation 3.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-153	Madam President, I would like At last, Emma Wallrup stood in the speaker's chair to travest Lagerlöf. Emma Wallrup developed the blue light perspective very clearly in her reasoning. No room for play and play in the 700-megahertz band here not! Madam President, I would like It could well have been relegated to the junk chamber of history as an unthought-out statement in a debate near the summer of 2016. But what we are going to have in mind, Madam President, is that Emma Wallrup and the Left are a very basic basis for a government with S and MP that we are all waiting for to achieve a policy in this area in some way. This policy has not been so infernal in the debate; it has been rather vague. But here we got a very clear statement from the government support party Left Party: No play nothing and play in the 700-megahertz band here not! I thought, Madam President, until this was said that we agreed across block borders that the frequency previously used for terrestrial television would finally be rolled out to give people across the country access to broadband, telephony and so on. But that does not seem to be the case. What conditions will the Left Party make to prevent an auction of the 700-megahertz band from being conducted? How long will people in Uppland and Småland have to wait to get a working mobile broadband and working telephony for play and games and other things, Emma Wallrup? Emma Wallrup first wants to feel safe and not let the commercial forces play too hard. It is a bit important that we as the opposition party find out.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-157	Madam President, I would like There should of course also be room for play and games on the internet and via broadband – that's not what I'm talking about. On the other hand, we must move towards a society that puts the most important needs first. It has long been cut down on emergency services in the country as well as on the ambulance in general. For example, we have heard of ambulance drivers who hit rock walls because they were overworked. We see how welfare is dismantled, which seems to be a priority. Society prioritises other values over the most basic and life-support services that are necessary when we need them most. You may also have a great need for play and games, but we can move on in time. I do not want to restrict or set an exact date for the introduction of a system that protects blue light operations. It needs to be reviewed. But we need to guarantee the basic social functions of the Internet – that's just what I'm saying. This is the type of writing that we have agreed within S, V and MP. The writings are very open but have a focus on us being able to guarantee these activities. This is completely self-evident and something that would save both you and me in a vulnerable situation and when we most need it, Anders Åkesson. I think you, too, would appreciate this if you were in a situation where you need emergency services. I do not mean that we should prevent access to the 700-megahertz band for rural areas, but we need to look at this carefully and balance it. We must be able to make a powerful expansion and ensure that everything works robustly. At the same time, we must build a society where the most important thing goes first and where we ensure that everyone is safe in the ground, feels good and feels that we have a society that puts the most important values at the top. Then we also have time for play and games, which is also important.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-161	Madam President, I would like It was very interesting to get the Left Party definition of mobile broadband. In the world of mine, the Center Party and the Alliance – and I believe that this also applies to all other parties except the Left Party – it is a question of giving people throughout the country access to education, the labour market, communication, culture, intercultural exchange and social contacts. Therefore, we release the 700-band and at the same time create space for the blue light authorities. But in the world of the Left Party and Emma Wallrup, this is an expression of giving room for play and games. That is a completely absurd view. I very much hope that Emma Wallrup will not in any way be given room in or influence on the IT policy that we are looking forward to with great excitement and that will be delivered from the government. It would be a disaster for people in Swedish rural areas, in the suburban areas of the major cities and so on, where access to broadband is important for security, intercultural exchange, work, education, etc. But it's missing today. Why, Madam President? It would be interesting to find out for what reason the Left Party denies people throughout the country access to work, education, intercultural exchange, etc., and dismisses this as a need for play and games. No one has said that the blue-light authorities should not be given sufficient space. But to dismiss, in the guise of this, the need for communication as play and games is very serious.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-164	Madam President, I would like Anders Åkesson hits the drum hard for something I haven't really said. Rather, we are putting forward a proposal which ensures that commercial operators are also involved in the roll-out of broadband throughout the country, precisely in order to guarantee the functions he mentions. We also think they are important, and we want 100% expansion. This is very important for the Left Party. However, we should look at what the blue light authorities need in order to guarantee safety – that is all I have said. I have not said how that limit should be set or what should be the basis for it, but the only thing I say is that we need to ensure that important societal functions work. We cannot continue to cut back on emergency services and such functions in order to allow more easy-to-use functions to take precedence. Unfortunately, we have seen a time when class divisions have increased. The rich have become richer. The consumption of luxury yachts and the like has gone before emergency services. It's very serious. It is important that we get an ethics into politics – that we see with clear eyes. It goes without saying that emergency services should work. Surely there is something else that no one can say in this speaker's seat. Then I would be very frightened and surprised, and I hope I never have to hear that. However, we need to look at this without limiting the opportunities for healthy and stable expansion, in order to create jobs and a good life throughout Sweden.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-168	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Emma Wallrup, for a to say the least interesting post and an interesting replica. I think we should leave the class divides in the 700 band and go into another issue that Emma Wallrup was on. She said that the Left Party was proposing a form of transfer system in which 1% of the profits would go to rural development. We can ignore the small detail that in reality there is already such a transfer system on a slightly more market-based basis; we call it coverage requirements. There is therefore a requirement for operators to provide coverage in exchange for the use of the frequency band. I am then very curious about Emma Wallrup's role models at this point. I don't know if it's a new idea or if she stole it from some other country. If so, what are her great role models in this matter? What countries has she taken up in this way? The principle of coverage requirements has proved to be quite effective. We might even have made stricter coverage requirements; it is also a variant. Moreover, it is not entirely unbelievable that the real transfer that the coverage requirements have meant far exceeds 1% of the profits, which Emma Wallrup is concerned with. These may be additional percentage points that have gone in this direction, without the need for political directives. Can Emma Wallrup explain the really great benefits of her proposal, which can lead to less coverage and less broadband for Swedish subscribers?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-172	Madam President, I would like More coverage, you mean, Erik Ottoson, I understand. Despite the fact that this rule exists, the coverage does not work at all as well as it would. That is why many people find it difficult to have activities in rural areas today. In some cases they have to run out of the house to get coverage. The broadband itself does not work either. So it is a problem today, and what could be added is more resources. Then we could both work with requirements for coverage and get resources to implement it. It is important that we distribute resources more equally and that we, as a society, build this up in a healthy way. We must put the resources where they are needed in order to have basic functions that strengthen the economy and make everyone feel good. In the case of broadband, for example, this is one such measure where we could work in that way. We could have this small rule that allows us to have resources allocated in the other direction, so that it is not just on the most commercial routes that we get a good expansion. That is my brief answer.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-176	Madam President, I would like The small rule that Emma Wallrup wants to introduce actually risks reducing resources, which was my point. If we want more coverage and we want to be tougher in our coverage requirements, there is the opportunity to make such a proposal. I have not seen any such proposal from Emma Wallrup. But to regulate that 1% of the profits would go to this – it was at least so I interpreted it, or possibly it was 1% of the turnover – is very rigid. What does Emma Wallrup say if 1.5 percent, 2 percent or 3 percent are needed? The point of the coverage requirement is that we do not set a ceiling for how much it costs. We're just putting a requirement on how it's supposed to be. And if you are dissatisfied with the result, it is either the specification that was incorrect or the follow-up that was inadequate. None of this has Emma Wallrup gone into. I am still curious about what role models Emma Wallrup has in this case that has shown that her variant is more fortunate than the one we are now using in Sweden. Or is it perhaps some kind of idea that has been ached at the Left Party office? It is also an opportunity. But before you go forward with something like this, you have to know that things are getting better. No, Madam President and Emma Wallrup, I did not mean that it could lead to more and probably less coverage. It is a rather imminent risk that Emma Wallrup's proposal would lead to less coverage, as she sets a ceiling for how much it costs, while we put a floor for how good it should be – either as good as it is or better. That's a very important difference. And once Emma Wallrup runs out of her percentage point, there'll be no more broadband.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-181	Madam President, I would like It's a little strange how the bourgeoisie is discussing resources. When it comes to reducing taxes so that the rich get more resources in their wallets, the resources play an enormous role. But when it comes to giving resources to welfare, to preschools and broadband roll-out, the resources are suddenly not important, but it is about laws and rules. In addition, we can compete for more resources by pressing working conditions and other things so that the workers take the fall. That's usually what we hear is the answer. It's pretty obvious that if we're going to expand broadband, it's good to have both a coverage requirement and more resources. There's a pretty strong logic in that. We simply see that more resources are needed here, and then we have come up with a further addition on how to work towards achieving the goals more quickly.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-183	Madam President, I would like The proposal that is now to be debated is about the conditions under which Swedish soldiers and sailors abroad can participate in training and exercises. The previous law allowed only exercises and training of soldiers abroad if it could be built into a peace-promoting context. Madam President, I would like It is very logical that we should now carry out these changes and broaden the purpose of the exercise to include territorial defence, for example, in the light of the changes that are taking place in the pattern of practice internationally and, by the way, at home. I had the privilege last summer, Madam President, to stand, together with other Wallmark of the House, on Ravlunda's shooting field down on Österlen and watch 4 500 soldiers from 17 nations land on the training field in Ravlunda from the sea. Shortly after the landing operation, two B52 aircraft flew in directly from the United States, simulating minute felling in Hanö Bay. It is precisely the kind of exercises that Sweden can now also participate in when they are conducted in other countries. That is what this legislation makes possible. In recent years, Sweden has approached NATO in various ways and deepened its cooperation. We are now participants in the NRF, the NATO Response Force, which is the NATO Rapid Response Force. We have, with regularity, NATO signal reconnaissance aircraft and fighter-command aircraft flying in our airspace, so-called Awacs. We are part of what is called the EOP, the Enhanced Opportunity Programme, which is a very exclusive partnership intended for the countries closest to NATO. Next week, this House will in all likelihood take a position on Host Nation Support, a host country agreement between Sweden and NATO which, in the event of a crisis or war, is preparing us to receive assistance from the countries of the transatlantic alliance. It must be clear that even the change that is now taking place in terms of our ability to practice abroad and in what kind of exercises we are going to include is associated with a security policy signal effect. Madam President, I would like Only yesterday I was asked: What else can Sweden do to deepen its cooperation with NATO? I have to admit that I was a little stunned, but after some thought I could see that most of it is now unchecked. If there are any new, exclusive societies that we are to join around NATO, they must probably first be invented before Sweden can participate. It is important to recall security policy analyses in the world around us. When the others look at us, they do not start from what we say, but they start from what we actually do. It can only be said, Madam President, that the Red-Green Government, like all the other governments during the last term of office, has navigated Sweden into a security policy no man's country. In the absence of NATO membership, we have no defence guarantees. On the other hand, we no longer have credible military alliance freedom. It should now be clear to any outside judge that the time has come for Sweden to seek membership of NATO, Madam President. Madam President, I would like There is also a reservation in this report that the Alliance supports. We wanted the government, now that the practice is extended abroad, to inform Parliament on a regular basis about how this activity develops and what it consists of. I note that several consultation bodies – including the Juridicum at Lund University – felt that the Riksdag should be guaranteed greater transparency as this change takes place. However, it is with some disappointment that I have to say that several parties do not believe that Parliament's transparency of this activity is important enough for such information to be required of the government on an annual basis. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 3.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-194	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, we are currently living at a time where the situation around the world is marked by conflict and great concern. Even up here with us, in what we once thought was safe northern Europe, it is not cool. Russia is showing an increasingly aggressive behaviour in its immediate vicinity, not to forget the annexation of Crimea and the increasing aggression against eastern Ukraine. Russia carries out bomb drills against Sweden and has ominous, provocative behaviour in the air across and around the Baltic Sea. Russia has also escalated its exercises in all branches of defence enormously. In autumn 2014, some foreign power violated our territory by entering a submarine or more – we do not know – in the Stockholm archipelago. Madam President, I would like I hope that all of us here agree that in the event of Sweden being subjected to attack, threat or pressure, the military defence will defend the empire with all the means at its disposal, as the ÖB also makes clear. The latest defence policy orientation bill identifies some specific priorities, including providing increased funding for the base plate and increased exercise activities. This is about the government being given the opportunity to send armed leaders abroad for practice and other training without it being specifically for peace-promoting efforts. The security policy situation in Europe has deteriorated. The Russian leadership has shown that it is prepared to use its military capability to achieve its political objectives. The deteriorating security policy situation means changing demands on Swedish defence capabilities. These are the introductory words of the most recent defence policy orientations. It is important to build security together with other countries. We are not an isolated part of the world, and we should also practise with other countries such as the other Nordic countries, the Baltic States, NATO and the USA. This is a way to build up our ability. I and the Moderates believe that it is self-evident that we are practicing to have a strong defence that in turn will deter any enemy who might consider an attack on us or any other country in our neighbourhood. However, we Moderates and the rest of the Alliance would like to go one step further and apply for membership of NATO. Membership of NATO ensures that, in the event of an attack, we receive support from other countries. Membership would also give us influence over the security policy issues that concern us. We would also be able to sit at the table when the decisions are made. The Swedish Democrats believe in a reservation that we should instead enter a defence alliance with Finland. At the same time, it is said that the Swedish freedom of alliance has served us well and that we want it to remain. I find it difficult to understand how we can be non-aligned if we are to enter into an alliance with Finland. Our practice and cooperation with Finland is positive, but unfortunately it is not possible to compare cooperation with Finland, which is valid in peacetime, with the solidarity guarantee that we as members of NATO would receive. This would also apply in the event of crisis and war. Madam President, I would like The Moderates and the other alliance parties support the bill, and we believe that it is a perfectly natural step within the framework of international military cooperation. However, we have a reservation, which Allan Widman also mentioned here. We believe that if the Riksdag is to be able to fulfil its audit role properly, we need to have access to information and transparency in the activities. Therefore, the government should return annually in the budget bill to the Riksdag and report on how many trainings and exercises are carried out and how it has strengthened the ability. That is a most reasonable requirement. That is why I call for reservation 3 in FiU14, Participation with armed forces abroad.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-203	Madam President, I would like I will begin by answering Lena Asplund's question. The freedom of the Alliance has served us well, we write. You said you don't understand that, Lena Asplund, but I'll explain a little. So we look back when we say that freedom of alliance has served us well. Then we also write that we want alliance freedom from great powers, which you will see if you read in our reservation. A covenant with Finland is the future. For time winning, I request the approval of reservation 2. It is significant that there is no impact assessment in this dossier. We know that the Alliance is keen to see this as a step into NATO. You are cheering and saying that this is a step into NATO, and now we are practically there. I am very surprised that the Social Democrats and the Green Party are on this. The debate today is about amending the law on education for peace-promoting activities. It's going to be rewritten. Now the government, not the Riksdag, will be authorized to send armed forces abroad for practice and other training – all kinds of exercises abroad. This is a very, very powerful signal. As Allan Widman was just up here and said: It's not what we say that counts but what we do. That's exactly how it is. What counts is what we do, and now we are going into exercises with mainly NATO units on an increasing scale. We want to reduce this in some paragraphs. It's what we do that sends the signal. Is it strange, then, that the Russian Foreign Minister is saying that they are moving forward their positions? What's so weird about that? NATO is moving its positions forward. NATO is a friend of ours. But Russia is not an enemy. How hard can it be? NATO, which you involved in the NATO debate, believes that we may well be outside, but they also want us to have a strong Swedish defence. They have nothing against a covenant with Finland. Russia says the same thing. It is your reduction, your total destruction of Swedish defence capabilities and civil defence, that has put us in this situation. Thankfully, we have now received a defence minister worthy of the name, who understands the seriousness and builds up this. But, above all, to the Social Democrats, I would like to say that I find it very surprising that you are falling into this trap. This is very doubtful. The fact that the government's decision-making power on these issues has been limited to peacekeeping operations is based on broad political agreement. But that is not the case with what is being proposed here. It is inappropriate to give a free ticket to the government to make decisions on military trainings because the choice of partners for these exercises is closely linked to Sweden's security policy orientation. We will have a debate next week on the host country agreement. This is a step, a step into the host country agreement that ties us even closer to this. You have not analysed the security policy implications of this. You don't care about it, or you don't understand it. That is our view. It is quite clear that these exercises will take place mainly with NATO units. We have presented an alternative to the text of the law. For example, we write this in the text of the law, and I read it to the inside so that it is absolutely right: a government may also send an armed force abroad to participate in training within the framework of military cooperation with the Finnish Armed Forces. ..................................................... I've been practicing there with our war units myself. We've done that before, so it's not news. But we did not practice ourselves and not at any time at the initiative of the government, but there was a long planning of exercises, as is happening today. This is the case, and these exercises were very appreciated by both the Finnish and the Swedish units. In addition, there is now a rapprochement between Finland and Sweden that you all think is good here. You can also see the way forward. You have never protested or said anything else at the meetings we have. This can lead to peace, crisis or non-peacetime cooperation. That's great. If it comes to a defence union with Finland, it is excellent. A strong Swedish defence, preferably in association with Finland, will stabilise the security policy situation in our part of Europe considerably more than you can ever come up with with this proposal. The basis for this broad line of defence policy, you also say, is the solidarity policy and the declaration of solidarity. How does that make sense? Madam President, I would like There are in this congregation parties that want to go to war with an attacker who goes against Estonia, for example. In the event of an intrusion into Estonia, we will declare this assailant war. Is that so? That's probably not what you've been thinking. The analysis is missing. But if we send a soldier to Estonia, we will explain the country that is attacking Estonia's war. What do you think when you make such suggestions? The Declaration of Solidarity should cover everything, but it should not be a guarantee that armed troops from Sweden will enter and help a NATO country wage war against an attacker. Then we're at war. The day after it goes off in Sweden. I do not, of course, have an analysis of the consequences. You talk about an operational ability. Does this increase operational capability? Yes, of course it does. In some respects, Madam President, it does. If we practice by air and other parts, it enhances the operational capacity, but then in cooperation with these countries. Where do the engineering units go? Where do Ing 2 personnel go? How will these excellent units practice? We will practice in Sweden, build civil defence and practice this. That is the real problem in Sweden today – that we have ignored civil defence. Build this up and practice together now! That's where we'll power up. I will settle for this, Madam President, and conclude by saying as I have said a few times now: the USA and NATO are our friends. But Russia is no enemy of us.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-220	Madam President, I would like I wonder, Roger Richtoff, if you Swedish democrats are still alive in the 80s, or where are you? I get very perplexed when Roger Richtoff says that Russia is not our enemy. What do Roger Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats think about Russia's annexation of Crimea and the aggressive behaviour towards especially eastern Ukraine? Then Roger Richtoff says that these exercises will mainly take place with NATO units. But who did Roger Richtoff have in mind for us to practice with? Finland, they say, and that is what we are doing today. Were you planning on us practicing with Russian units, or what's the idea? I feel like we have an aggressive Russia. This is not what Roger Richtoff wants to see, and I can understand that given how the Swedish democrats act in the European Parliament, where they are incredibly Putin-friendly. I'm sorry, but when it comes to a defence alliance with Finland, unfortunately, we're not strong enough just the two of us together. We need more behind us now that we have this aggressive country to the east. I'm a little worried. Where does Sweden's democrats' solidarity with our Baltic states lie when it is said that with a declaration of solidarity we would have to help Estonia if anything happened? Of course we will! That's nothing to think about. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are in a very vulnerable position. We heard what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: it was felt that it had left the Baltic States kindly without making any military intervention. That's awful to hear!
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-226	Madam President, I would like I answer two times because there were many questions. I'll try to explain. I'll start with Estonia. We Swedish democrats say that Sweden will help Estonia, but we say that we do not go to war for Estonia. We do not want to send troops to Estonia if the country is attacked by any great power or anyone else. But you want to. You want to declare that aggressor war. It's totally wrong. The Moderates have always made an equally erroneous analysis of the security policy situation. You have destroyed the defense. You're breaking the systems. You call the Armed Forces special interest. Now you're giving the impression that you've wanted a different direction. Your ability to analyse is of zero value today in the eyes of the Swedish Democrats. Now you want to build a new trust. In this respect, there is a lack of analysis of the consequences. Then there was the question of NATO units. There are no others. These are essentially NATO units. But Finland is not a NATO unit. What kind of exercises do you have in mind? You don't know that. It is a matter of all kinds of exercises – a sweeping formulation. What kind of security policy signal does it send out to others? You haven't analyzed that. Does this type of exercise increase or decrease tensions in our part of Europe? They increase the tension. Is that what you want? I don't think so. Then there is the EU. I'll take that question in the next line change. Instead, I raise the issue of Russia's aggression. We've been talking about it being illegal. It violates all obligations and regulations. We have also been clear in this House. Listen to what we say, and Lena Asplund won't have to ask the question again.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-231	Madam President, I would like Roger Richtoff says that training with other countries, particularly NATO countries, is a bad thing in terms of security policy. Only Finland is okay. He says it's sending bad signals and increasing uncertainty. I would like to say that what is causing uncertainty is Russia's aggressive behaviour. It is Russia's total lack of respect for the territory of other countries and Russia's total lack of respect for safety in the Baltic Sea when flying near passenger aircraft without using transponders, flying provocatively close to American ships and flying provocatively close to our signal planes that are fuelling the security concerns – not that Sweden is practicing with other countries. This approach must in some way assume that Russia is right and the rest of the world is wrong. Russia is today inside Syria. It is for one reason, namely to cause even more concern. We should not think that Putin does this for the sake of the Syrian people. Forget it! I'm very worried. I said the Swedish Democrats live in the '80s. You're living in a strange sight. You must go further back because you believe that Russia is our friend. Unfortunately, Russia is not our friend. On the other hand, there are people among the Russian people who are clearly our friends, but Putin is certainly not our friend. Don't tell me this is making the security situation worse. Sweden must practice. It's not us that's making things worse. It's Putin.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-236	Madam President, I would like Did the Russians do it for the people? Did NATO do that? Sweden was part of the Libya operation. Did we do it for the Libyan people? Did we provide the rebel groups with weapons, which the Moderates think is good, which eventually ended up with IS, for the people of Syria? I am thinking of Sweden's participation in Iraq – not the first time, when I was there, but the second time. Did they do it for the people of Iraq? In my opinion, you are totally lacking in a reality view and have a complete lack of analytical ability, Lena Asplund. You have destroyed the Swedish defense. You've put us in this situation. You think I'm wrong about security policy. I remind you, I didn't say that the Russians are our friends. I said NATO is a friend of ours, but Russia is not our enemy. Try to remember that! There's a difference. Then there was the EU issue. The EU debate raises criticism of Russia. Now, listen to me, and you'll hear what really happened! There were many points that were baked in, and then there was a package. The package contained criticism of Russia, but there were also many other issues where we did not share the view. The package as a whole contained more disadvantages than advantages. That's why we said no to the package. Then you pick out that we do not criticise Russia – and forget the package that includes the accession of more EU countries and so on. We are no longer going on that rhetoric. I still believe that the security policy situation is deteriorating with your policy.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-243	I would like to welcome the ministers. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Questions are answered by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke and Minister Aida Hadzialic. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-244	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Finance. Today, more than 41⁄2 million people go to work, but more people want to do it. Everyone needs to contribute in order to do the right thing according to their ability. Most people want that too, but they don't get the chance yet. In the gallery are parts of Sweden's future – young students who dream of their first job. I've been talking to them today, and they have a lot of ideas. But they also see another part of Sweden. About 1 million people will be excluded in a few years' time. In their research, these sociologists have tried to link concerns such as the fact that one in four older people dies alone and that we have high youth unemployment. They want to create activities for the elderly in return for young people to receive, for example, activity or subsistence support. It would both provide jobs for young people and improve the health of older people.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-249	Mr President, I would like to No young person in Sweden should have to start their adult life with long periods of unemployment. That is not acceptable. That's why the government wants a 90-day guarantee that no young person should go unemployed for more than 90 days. That is why the government has introduced training contracts for young people who are most at risk of unemployment, namely those who do not have full upper secondary education. These young people should be able to combine work and education to both complete their upper secondary education and gain work experience with them. For those with upper secondary education, we want to see trainee jobs in welfare, where you can combine vocational training with working in welfare. This will also provide young people with relevant vocational training and work experience. These are two concrete measures taken by this government. We think it is important for young people to have the opportunity to start their adult life not in unemployment but in work.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-253	Mr President, I would like to It is important that the government's message does not remain just fine words. These people experience growing exclusion where young people are left out. The Government receives criticism from the European Commission, from the Financial Policy Council and also from the Swedish National Audit Office. When will the government take this criticism to heart in order to clearly put forward measures that bring concrete improvements to young people so that exclusion decreases, does not increase?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-255	Mr President, I would like to With the policy pursued by the government, we see a reduction in youth unemployment. In fact, it is the part of unemployment that is decreasing most rapidly, so obviously the concrete measures taken by the government have had an effect.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-256	Of course, we do not sit down and are satisfied with the situation now, but we will continue to work so that more young people can get to work. The government will never give up on unemployment.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-257	Government and UN work against abuse in Syria and Iraq
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-258	Mr President, I would like to After the Holocaust, the world said: Never again! But it has happened again, and it is happening right now because of a lack of political will. In Iraq and Syria, there is an unimaginable cleansing of designated people with the declared goal of eradicating groups from the region. Yazidian women are sold as sex slaves. Christians have their homes marked with the Arabic sign for Christians so that they can be murdered. HBtq people are thrown out of rooftops in cold blood. It is a betrayal that the Swedish Government does not want to name what is now happening as a genocide, but pushes the issue away.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-262	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Sofia Damm! This is one of the most important tasks we have right now. We are working politically to get solutions in both Iraq and Syria. We work humanitarianly; as we know, we are the fifth largest country in the world in terms of humanitarian aid. We are also making military efforts to ensure that the situation in Iraq and Syria in particular is changed. The persecutions of different minority groups or Christian groups are absolutely unacceptable. In the eight years of the alliance government, you also did not use the word genocide because it is a legal and legal term for the courts to use. But the word comes to us because sometimes we do not have enough words to describe the horrors that occur in terms of abuse. There is no hierarchy among the concepts that denote this kind of war crime. That is why action is the most important thing, and we continue to act.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-266	Mr President, I would like to We politicians must never hide behind legal technicalities. Without political action, there is no legal review. International judicial bodies cannot do more than their Member States and the UN show in will and action. Humanitarian law is also completely out of control in Syria. Hospitals and refugee camps are deliberately bombed in a way that the world has not seen before. The Swedish Government must stand up because international law is not only protected. It's supposed to mean something. Will this be a priority if Sweden gets the seat in the Security Council?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-269	Mr President, I would like to That is already a priority. We have constantly worked for this. We do so through the European Union, and we have, of course, requested that the Security Council also act and raise these issues to the International Criminal Court. Also, do not make this matter any stranger by saying that it is only a matter of judicial review! Political action is what is important, and that is what we are doing. It is not just a debate on how to denote it. We want to change the situation on the ground for these people and protect them better.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-271	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Finance. Over the last few days, very serious criticism has been levelled at the government's economic policy from various authorities. The Council of Finance Ministers notes the following about the government: A particularly expansionary policy is being pursued in spite of the current economic situation. There is a significant deviation from the surplus target for the level of financial savings. There is no plan or even principle for achieving surpluses even in the longer term. The expenditure ceiling has been manipulated in a way that risks seriously damaging its credibility. There is currently a parliamentary committee investigating the question of the surplus target. In what way does the Minister of Finance think it appropriate to unilaterally abolish this objective before the Committee has even finalised its final report?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-278	Mr President, I would like to When we took over government power a year and a half ago, we inherited the biggest deficits we have had in public finances since the budgetary adjustment. This was due to the fact that we had continued to borrow for major tax cuts despite the fact that we were in an upward trend. When we took over, we moved fiscal policy in a tighter direction, as the Council of Finance Ministers also notes. As a result, we managed to reduce deficits significantly. Last year we had a balance, and we are moving towards both surplus and balance in the coming years. However, we did not manage to take the step all the way up to the surplus target in one sweep, but it takes some time. Of course, that time is somewhat prolonged by the fact that we have had increased migration costs, which the Council of Finance Ministers thinks we should handle in exactly the way we have handled it. This government is therefore pursuing a very tight policy. We have not abolished the surplus target but are now moving towards surpluses.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-282	Mr President, I would like to At least as serious a criticism is being levelled at the government's tax increases on labour. One counts coldly with a so-called static model and completely disregards what is called dynamic changes, that is, the behavioural changes that occur when you raise different taxes. The Council writes that taking into account the dynamic effects, the reforms do not lead to any strengthening of public finances at all. How on earth can it be a sensible tax policy?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-283	Mr President, I would like to This depends entirely on how to assess the elasticity of the labour supply of different tax changes. There we can make different assessments. There, the government makes a different assessment than the Council of Finance Policy. It is important that we collect taxes. That is why I am very surprised that the Swedish Democrats today in the Tax Committee in the Parliament have pursued a policy in which they want Sweden to be the country in the EU that stops the work against tax evasion in the EU. This is to be known to the Swedish people! The Swedish Democrats are a party for tax evasion.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-286	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Aida Hadzialic. The Stockholm region is experiencing strong growth, but the labour market here is highly segregated by education level, which has become particularly evident in recent years' economic crises. A group with a relatively weak position in the region's labour market are young people. For many young people, vocational training would offer great opportunities for jobs. Previous investment in vocational adult education has yielded positive results as this captures people who are outside the labour market, but despite positive results, there is still low search pressure on these programmes in the Stockholm region. The industries must work with attractiveness, and policies must provide resources for these training courses. Against this background, I would like to ask the Government: what does the Government want to do to strengthen the attractiveness of vocational education and training?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-288	Mr President, I would like to This government is working very actively to strengthen the status and attractiveness of vocational education and training. We know that vocational training leads to jobs, especially for young people. This is an important way of breaking unemployment, and we know that vocational training is an important part of the skills supply for our labour market, as many sectors are screaming for new entrants. It's about the construction industry, health care, etc. I believe that some of the most important things we can do are to talk well about vocational training, to hire more teachers and to expand the capacity of vocational training – from upper secondary school through adult education to university of applied sciences.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-290	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. That's exactly what the government says. While there are many low-skilled unemployed, many companies are unable to recruit the necessary skills. In the Stockholm region, there are very many deficiency professions. Among them are construction engineers, specialist nurses, chefs, bakers and system developers. Would the Government be able to develop how we can adapt education to the needs of the labour market?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-291	Mr President, I would like to It can be said in many respects that vocational training is, in fact, a lack of vocational training. We know that nine out of ten people who go through a so-called YH education get a job afterwards. This government expanded the university of applied sciences by 20 percent last year, and we will do even more. In many ways it is a question of capacity building in order to provide the labour market with the skills it needs.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-294	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. For the past ten months, several Kurdish cities have been under fire, and several districts have been leveled. Here I have a picture from one of these cities, parts of Diyarbakhār. A colleague asked if it was Beirut in 1975. Here's a picture of another town, Cizre. That's how you can see city after city. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether she is prepared to condemn this state terrorism of which the Erdo中an regime is guilty?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-297	Mr President, I would like to Jabar Amin usually brings pictures. These are images of despair and of the terrible scenes that are now taking place. Here it is clear that the EU, in particular, has an important role to play right now. As everyone knows, the negotiations and discussions with Turkey follow several tracks. The deal we have has been discussing migratory flows and the European approach, and then, of course, we have our normal diplomatic and political contacts, which have become increasingly difficult, because we call on the parties to peace and to return to negotiations. Turkey has the right to defend itself against terrorism, but efforts must be made to protect civilians. We are as concerned as Mr Amin and others about what is happening at the moment with regard to the situation of the Kurds.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-299	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. I asked if we could hear a condemnation of this state terrorism. Then the Minister for Foreign Affairs says: We are concerned. I think everyone's concerned, including Erdo中an. This requires more than being concerned. A judgment is required here. I hope that we can have a condemnation of this state terrorism.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-301	Mr President, I would like to We all condemn attacks on civilians. When the civilian population, the Kurds, is affected in the way we have seen recently, it goes without saying that we condemn it. We do so in the EU context, in the UN context and in bilateral negotiations with Turkey. What is very important at the moment is how we express our values-based views towards Turkey in the discussions that are taking place in the future. This is a very important debate which must continue.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-303	Mr President, I would like to The Riksbank is setting itself on fire to achieve a seemingly unattainable inflation target. The Minister of Finance is setting fire to achieving a seemingly unattainable unemployment target. None of them seem to be concerned about financial stability any longer. The government also receives widespread criticism from the Council of Finance Ministers, and although the Minister of Finance and the Council have completely disparate views on what is expansive fiscal policy, the question must nevertheless be asked: is there any concern on the part of the Minister for Finance that imbalances are building up in the economy?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-305	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Jörgen Andersson that we are pursuing a much tighter policy than that of the Alliance Government at the end of its term of office. It was then structural savings, i.e. savings that take account of cyclical developments, much worse than it is now, when it is a social democratic government. Despite the increased costs of migration, deficits are much smaller and structural savings are much better. This is because we have reversed the development we saw under the Moderates, with ever-increasing deficits. Given the tone, one might think that the Moderates had proposals for much tighter economic policies. That is not the case, however. This year, you have no other proposal than the government. For example, you accept everything in our amending budget. On the other hand, household indebtedness is of course of concern. There we are holding talks with the bourgeois parties about the amortisation requirements and how we can get up the housing building. It's an important issue to keep an eye on.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-308	Mr President, I would like to It worries me and surprises me that the Minister of Finance is spending more time describing a story rather than worrying about the future. I would have liked a more serious answer. In this context, I would like to ask the question: is there any discussion in the government on how the discussions should be conducted in the Stability Council? If so, would the Minister of Finance please explain this?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-310	Mr President, I would like to Now I do not know whether Jörgen Andersson refers mainly to fiscal policy or to, as it were, the stabilisation of the financial market and the financial sector. As I pointed out, household indebtedness is worrying. Most assessors argue that this is not a risk to financial stability. On the other hand, the high level of household indebtedness may have an impact on macro-economic developments. It is therefore important to take steps to reduce household indebtedness. The government has also done so, in cooperation with the Moderates, among others.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-313	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister Wallström. Turkey has recently taken several steps away from the path of democracy. The Kurdish population has been particularly affected. Hundreds of civilians have been killed. Cities have been destroyed. Journalists and activists have been imprisoned. The day before yesterday, a first decision was taken to remove the immunity of parliamentarians. The purpose is quite clear. It is about silencing the opposition, primarily the democratic left-wing party HDP. Of course, it is right to remove immunity in the case of various forms of crime. But this is about gaging the opposition. If the decision goes through, 50 of HDP's 59 parliamentarians risk going to jail. If the decision is passed, there is a great risk that the violence will increase further and that the peace process will stop. Tomorrow the final decision will be taken to make this constitutional amendment. It is extremely important that the outside world protests and acts here and now. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what she thinks of this and whether she intends to act.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-316	Mr President, I would like to First of all, let me say that the European process and the contacts that we have are about giving strengthened rights to everyone in Turkey. That is the intention of all our deliberations. It is a very worrying development that the immunity of certain Members of the Turkish Parliament may be lifted. If this is to happen, it must be on a non-discriminatory basis. We are paying attention to all the setbacks that are taking place with regard to freedom of expression and this type of restriction. We support the EU statements that have been made in this regard. We are also pushing in the Council of Europe and in the OSSE. We will continue to do so also bilaterally with Turkey.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-317	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. I believe that something more powerful is needed here and now, at this moment, to stop the proposal. That is why, I mean, action must be taken at once. I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you a question. The EU has concluded agreements with Turkey on the reception of refugees. Turkey has recently escalated violence against its own citizens, imprisoned journalists and destroyed Kurdish cities. Now we are trying to silence the only opposition party, HDP, by means of a constitutional amendment. Does the Minister think that such action should be rewarded? Is it right to grant Turkey visa facilitation and a negotiation on EU membership? And is it right that Turkey should be allowed to act as a border police force for the EU?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-319	Mr President, I would like to We are paying attention, as I said, to the setbacks of freedom of expression. We highlight very clearly the values of democracy and human rights. We continue to conduct the negotiations, the various tracks that we have, so that we can hopefully see that developments are moving in a different direction and are taking a better path. That, of course, is also the purpose of the consultations that we have bilaterally with Turkey.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-321	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Recently, we have been able to read the Swedish National Audit Office's report and review. We have also heard from the Council of Finance Ministers that it strongly criticises the government's economic policy. In practice, Magdalena Andersson has abandoned both the surplus target and the principle of financing new spending heads for heads. It is serious and risks confidence in the Swedish economy. In order to hurt worse, the government fails in employment policy. The forecasts in the budget suggest that unemployment will increase while the employment rate will decrease by 2020. With government policy, we get empty barns but full employment offices. It has been a long time since anyone believed in the government's employment target for the EU's lowest unemployment rate. Now more and more people are doubting the basic economic policy of the government. When will the government start listening to its own expert authorities?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-324	Mr President, I would like to I would like to inform Annika Qarlsson that we are much closer to the surplus target now than when Annika Qarlsson's party friends were in the government. In fact, structural savings were greater than they are today. We were further away from the surplus target. The truth is, when we took over, we were 75 to 80 billion away from the surplus target. Now we have managed to bring home a piece of this. But we haven't made it all the way. This is because we inherited the largest deficits that have been in Sweden since the budgetary adjustment. That is also why this government has been conducting the strictest policy since Göran Persson's time.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-326	Mr President, I would like to I can say that I cannot thank you for your reply. I did not get an answer to my question. My question was about the criticism that has come from the Council of Finance Ministers regarding the policy that Magdalena Andersson is pursuing – it is not about what the Alliance was doing with politics. There were criticisms the other week, which clearly point out that there are shortcomings. There is concern about the situation, no matter how much the Minister for Finance beats his chest. The forecast also sketches a higher unemployment rate. Together it becomes troublesome. My question is still: when will the government listen to its expert authority?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-328	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to note that unemployment is much lower now than when the Alliance was in government. However, the question is: how quickly are we to recover the deficits we inherited from the alliance government? There we and the Council of Finance Ministers make different assessments. The Council of Finance Ministers believes that we should bring back the Alliance's deficit very quickly and that we should now implement tax increases of perhaps 20, 30, 40 billion. Our assessment is that we should be able to wait some or a few more years before reaching the surplus target.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-329	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Foreign Minister Wallström. The security situation in our immediate vicinity is severely impaired. It is not just that there continues to be battles in Eastern Ukraine. Crimea is still occupied. We also see serious violations of our Swedish airspace. At this stage, the Russian energy company Gazprom plans to build a new gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea, Nordstream 2. There are many reasons why it should be stopped. One is clearly security policy. It is a well-known fact that Russia uses gas supplies as a lever for military purposes. It would therefore be headless to make the EU more dependent on Russian gas. Another argument is about Ukraine. The pipelines that are now passing through the country are a very important source of income for Ukraine with the transit charges paid to the country. This would be completely lost if a new pipeline were to be set in the Baltic Sea.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-333	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Maria Weimer, for a so-called leading question! This debate is taking place in full in the context of the European Union, Mr President. Right now we are looking at how this is in line with energy policy, the Energy Union, which we have in Europe. It also has the political consequences of security and others, as it were, in terms of power policy, which are being examined at the moment. At the same time, there is a legal process and economic interests that must also be taken into account. It's all being weighed together. There is a very important debate going on in the European context in which we will, of course, take an active part. Above all, we must act together, as we see it, in the European Union. That is why, of course, we will soon come back with a coherent view of how to pursue these issues in Europe. It's at the top of our agenda.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-335	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs mentions the work that is going on. We are also aware that six prime ministers have written a letter to the Commission. One is very worried about the Nordstream 2 gas pipeline. Sweden is one of the countries that can really push for this project at no major political cost. There are other countries that do not have the same opportunities. Therefore, my question to the Foreign Minister is: is the Foreign Minister prepared to use his influence in the EU to do everything she can to stop the new leadership?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-337	Mr President, I would like to We will use our influence in Europe to examine all aspects of this, including security policy. Hopefully, we can bring as many Member States along on a line that meets our energy policy and ensures that we do not face repeated threats to Europe's security. We also need to look at what opportunities we actually have legally and legally to influence this gas pipeline.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-339	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. Finland has a greater degree of private funding of culture than Sweden. Foundations and funds invest in culture, and they have a tax system that also encourages it. The Minister for Culture's initiative does not provide more culture, only more public funding. I think about the museums. The Minister of Culture has chosen free entrance while Finland has chosen a museum card, an annual card for 45 euros, which applies to both private and state museums. Has the Minister of Culture looked at Finland, which has succeeded better in broadening funding? It would be a good addition and provide new nutrition for both cultural offerings and creators in Sweden.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-343	Mr President, I would like to I thank Isabella Hökmark for the question. Just two weeks ago I had talks with my Finnish colleague about their model of financing and stimulating cultural and creative industries and culture as a whole. They do an inspiring job, so of course I have a dialogue with other culture ministers and allow myself to be inspired. At the same time, it should be remembered that the cultural policy initiatives we are currently making in Sweden are almost unique in Europe. We invest and invest in the culture of our country when many other countries withdraw.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-347	Mr President, I would like to There are cultural workers who can opt out of Sweden. I'm thinking about the film producers. They can choose to produce in another country, for 17 other EU countries have production discounts to make films. Can the Minister of Culture think of pursuing this issue so that film is produced in Sweden as well?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-349	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Swedish film's conditions are concerned, we are now doing a major rescheduling of Swedish film, which has been on its knees for a long time. The film industry has called for better conditions. As of 2017, the new film policy will finally have an impact, and it will in itself create better conditions. I would now like to focus on the reform we are making, but I am obviously following the development of the film's prerequisites for perhaps coming back later with even more proposals.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-352	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. In recent times, no one has been able to avoid hearing increasingly loud voices presenting various proposals to create more low-wage jobs, especially for new arrivals and young people, so that they can get to work faster. The fact that it takes a long time to get to work for the new arrivals, among others, is of course a major problem. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance how does the Minister of Finance believe that a larger low-wage sector would benefit the Swedish economy, competitiveness and continued growth in an international perspective? Is it really more low-wage jobs that are the wise way for an advanced economy like Sweden to succeed in global competition?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-356	Mr President, I would like to Above all, it is important that future policy is based on what has been successful in the Swedish model, namely free and strong social partners. It is on the labour market that wages should be set, not here in the Swedish parliament. Here is an important dividing line in Swedish politics. Several of the bourgeois parties want it to be in Parliament's Chamber's wages to be set. And it's not just the kind of salary you're supposed to put-- you're supposed to set low wages. I am concerned about developments in bourgeois politics, which want to reduce wages and raise rents. It will not be easy for our young people to get out into adulthood with that policy. Of course, it should be cheap to hire people who are far from the labour market. However, it is much better and more effective to support those individuals who find it difficult to get in than to take more general measures that are at risk of affecting large parts of the employee collective.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-360	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It is gratifying that the government makes a radically different analysis and probably a much more successful analysis for the future of the Swedish economy and growth conditions. I would ask the Minister for Finance to develop a little why an emerging low-wage sector in Sweden is not a success path according to the government.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-362	Mr President, I would like to What Sweden tends to be good at competing with globally is knowledge and competence. We want to be high up in the value chain and thus be able to have a high level of prosperity. It is therefore important that we invest in education, research and innovation so that we can be strong there. At the same time, it is important for people who find it difficult to enter the labour market to do so. We will ensure this by having clear support for those individuals who find it difficult to enter the labour market, for example if you have not lived in Sweden for so long.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-364	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. This week, parts of an intelligence report have been leaked by the European Commission. The report states that the visa-free regime for Turkey poses an increased threat of terrorism against Europe. According to the report, terrorist organisations and international crime syndicates are preparing themselves by getting across Turkish passports in different ways. The agreement with Turkey will make it very easy for Turkish IS warriors who have travelled to Syria to enter the EU. Terrorists from other countries can buy Turkish ID documents and then fly directly to any EU country and at worst commit acts of terrorism. A former head of British military intelligence has compared visa freedom to pouring gasoline on open fire. Furthermore, Turkey has serious shortcomings in respect for democracy and human rights. Why do you support an agreement that involves such great risks and where the most likely is that Turkey will mismanage its part of the agreement and then demand even more of the European Union?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-370	Mr President, I would like to Visa freedom is an important part of the migration agreement that exists between the EU and Turkey. It is also part of the country's EU approach. Visa freedom is granted if you meet a number of criteria, and they are the same for all countries. It is in that process that we are right now. These are clear criteria and clear values. It is more important than ever when we now see the worrying developments in democracy and human rights and the conflict in the south-east of Turkey. We insist that Turkey must meet the criteria. That is the way we have to control this process and a road map for granting visa freedom at all.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-374	Mr President, I would like to I do not think the Foreign Minister understands the seriousness of this. The criteria set by the EU for Turkey do nothing to prevent the risk that people who have been IS warriors in Syria may come to Europe and commit acts of terrorism. The criteria relating to terrorism and the demands made on Turkey are about liberalising terrorist legislation so that Turkey does not abuse it in order to detain journalists and critics of the regime. They do absolutely nothing about the problem.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-376	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that we must work together to combat terrorism. Our plan and strategy to combat terrorism are what the European Union is doing and what the entire international community is doing to combat terrorism. We must be able to have several thoughts and actions at the same time and act on several parallel tracks. Combating terrorism is a common challenge for us. This applies to both Turkey and the countries of Europe.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-379	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. On Monday I visited Borlänge. It is one of the municipalities that the national coordinator against violent extremism has designated as a pilot municipality. The focus has rightly been on violent extremism and radicalisation, but also on the white power environment. In Borlänge in Dalarna there are great challenges and concerns with white power and political violence-promoting power environment.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-382	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Haddad, for your commitment to these questions and for asking the question. At the end of June, the mandate of the National Coordinator's Committee will be terminated for two years. The government is currently working on how to take this forward. Just as Roger Haddad says, it is the three identified violent extremist movements that are the focus of the work in Sweden. They are against the three groups we are continuing to develop. Borlänge is one of the municipalities that are part of a pilot project with five other municipalities where we strengthen the work, develop models and spread it further across Sweden. It is essential that we continue to focus on all three groups, the left-wing extremist, jihadism and right-wing extremism. We know they feed and fatten each other. It is a work and an approach that inspires not only large parts of Europe but also the United States.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-386	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. When I visit the municipalities, they are more concrete when it comes to the work against violent extremism and Islamic radicalisation. It is much easier to approach associations, parents and so on compared to the white power environment. Nevertheless, I would like to know what the government's strategy is to get to grips with this issue, which is a major problem. The second is: when will the government decide on new national coordinators? When Mona Sahlin resigned, the Government said: This harms the work against extremism.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-388	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the appointment of the new national coordinator, I will be very happy to come back in the near future. When it comes to the focus on the white power movement, that is, the extreme right-wing extremism, it is one of the national coordinator's missions and focus. We continue to develop our work towards all three. Although it is jihadism, the violent Islamism, that has taken much of the focus, there is constant work going on against left-wing extremism and right-wing extremism.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-391	Mr President, I would like to I intend to put a question to Minister Hadzialic. The Swedish school has great opportunities. I really want to say it. Around the country, many students enjoy and perform very well, and it is teachers who proudly talk about their profession. I just came from the National Federation of Teachers' Congress opening. It was no exception that you are still very proud of the profession you have. I would like to mention the fact that after PISA, Stefan Löfven promised that a Commission would analyse the falling knowledge results. On Monday, under Anna Ekström's leadership, a partial report was submitted to the Government, among other things. That, of course, raises many questions. It is about the relationship of responsibility, the distribution of resources and the attractiveness of the teaching profession. You can talk about it forever. As I have only one minute, I will end by asking how the Government assesses the possibility of broad participation, which is absolutely necessary, but also how it intends to proceed with the proposals and issues that have come to this stage.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-395	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for a very important question. One of the things that the School Commission addresses is the importance of a national collection for the Swedish school. It is believed that in those countries that have managed to turn the results of knowledge better, they have collaborated across the party boundaries that exist, across block borders and together with the parties. Everyone has moved in the same direction to create a more equal education. I think that Sweden needs more of that ingredient in order for us to be able to get more teachers and a more equal education in the Swedish school. We will try to hold talks with the opposition parties in the Riksdag to move forward with, among other things, the proposals made by the School Commission.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-398	Mr President, I would like to Now the Minister himself raised the word equivalence, which I am very pleased about. This is one of the most important challenges for the Swedish school. The OECD argued that inequality is increasing and equivalence is decreasing. The School Commission also stresses the need to really achieve an active policy to reduce segregation and inequality in the Swedish school system. Could the Government, in the short time available, develop how she views equivalence in the Swedish school?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-400	Mr President, I would like to The government wants to build a world-class equal education. We will not achieve equality or world class if we retain the diversity that exists today in the Swedish school. We have to go on a broad front. Schools with the toughest conditions must be given more resources. We need more teachers at school who have time to focus on teaching and students. That's how it's supposed to be all over the country. All schools should be good schools. It's a hugely important deal for the government.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-403	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Finance. The Government receives criticism on many points in the latest report of the Council of Finance Policy, including for disregarding behavioural changes. The fact that increased taxes affect behaviour is the very reason for introducing, for example, environmental taxes or taxes on alcohol. Reasonably, the budget should be realistic and use the precautionary principle. So, no joy calculations when it points in a positive direction. If negative effects are to be expected, they are taken into account. The current government expects higher tax revenues when raising taxes on labour, without taking into account the fact that driving forces are then created for people to work less. Worse still, you happily spend this hypothetical money. I wonder what the Minister of Finance's position is on this criticism.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-408	Mr President, I would like to After the crash we had for the public finances in the 1990s, the calculation conventions were re-established at the Ministry of Finance. Before that, it was anticipated that the effects of tax changes would be dynamic. The result was that the then bourgeois government was counting on the amazing dynamic effects of its tax cuts. It was believed that people would work so much more that it would bring a lot of new tax revenue. The result was a disaster that then required a budgetary adjustment. After that, we have a strict framework for the calculation conventions. It's exactly who we're following. In contrast, long-term budgetary effects are taken into account when calculating behavioural effects. As regards the long-term sustainability of public finances, Anette Åkesson does not need to be concerned.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-411	Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of the 21st century, the Social Democrats blamed themselves for the emergence of the 90s crisis. The economy was not tightened when necessary. This led, among other things, to overheating, a cost crisis and a greatly overvalued crown. I have a question for the Minister for Finance. By systematically underestimating future costs, over-estimating revenues and implementing reforms that impair jobs, is not the current government heading in the same direction?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-413	Mr President, I would like to The government has no overestimated impact on public finances of tax changes. On the other hand, I would like to warn against opening the way for us to start again counting and reporting on the dynamic effects of tax changes. We know what it has led us to in the past. This led to large deficits and huge interest rates on our public debt. This led to a situation in which we had to carry out a budgetary adjustment. We're never going back there. It stands for the government.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-415	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. According to the Human Rights Watch report, since February 2015, Daish has executed at least 49 people in Sète and tens in Misrata, Libya. These people were killed by shootings or beheadings. They were accused of espionage or of belonging to the opposition. Madam Minister! How do you view the Human Rights Watch report on the executions that Daish is engaged in in Libya and that the world misses because of the focus on Syria and Iraq?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-417	Mr President, I would like to We have, of course, taken note of the report from Human Rights Watch. We share their view of the enormous hardships imposed on the civilian population by Daish in Sète. It's a horrible picture that's painted. It is widespread violence, isolation, lack of food and medicine. The work done by Human Rights Watch to document the widespread violations of human rights committed in Libya is very important. Therefore, all parties to the conflict in Libya must take action. It is important to ensure that the civilian population is protected and that this is done in full compliance with international law. This is also discussed and is at the top of the EU agenda and will be there again and again until we see the situation straightened out.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-420	Mr President, I would like to Madam Minister! Thank you for your answer. It is important to mention how people suffer in Daish controlled areas. In addition to harassing the streets, the population is deprived of their resources and livelihoods, including money, food and fuel, for its members. Madam Minister! I would like to conclude by saying that it is a disaster for people who are unable to escape, especially women and children. Therefore, from this very place to the outside world, I appeal not to lose focus on these attacks on humanity.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-423	Mr President, I would like to Just to say something about what we are doing: Sweden contributed SEK 23 million in aid to Libya last year and SEK 12.5 million in support of human rights and democracy. We have also given more than SEK 10 million to humanitarian aid, especially through the ICRC. We continue to ensure that we can work politically to find a solution to the conflict and to change the suffering suffered by the civilian population. We will continue to do everything we can to ensure that this is addressed.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-426	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Magdalena Andersson. With me in the gallery here today I have Mohammed, who is a refugee to Sweden from Syria. He contacted me because he became so enormously frustrated about the passivity that he in the Swedish system is forced into. For example, he has acquired a practice on his own. But he had to finish it after a short while, because there was no approval, the right paper was not in place. He had waited four months for this paper, and nothing happened. Of course, I am not asking Magdalena Andersson to comment on the specific case. But proposals from this government to simplify and make it easier, to avoid fighting against the system when you come here as a refugee, shine with your absence. Are you going to do something to get Mohammed and others out of that passivity?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-430	Mr President, I would like to I want to say hello to Mohammed. Welcome to the Swedish Parliament! It's very good to have you here. And so good that Mohammed has arranged an internship, but how sad it has not worked! That, of course, is the case. There are probably more cases today in Sweden similar to Mohammed. There are also many people who sit in refugee camps waiting to be able to get activities, to get information and to have the opportunity to have some kind of activity while waiting for information. Just say: In view of the fact that more people than ever applied for asylum in Sweden last year, 163 000, and that many people applied for asylum the year before, there have been clots in the system, and not everything works in the way they would like. Too many people have to wait too long. However, the government has tried to take steps to make things easier, but not all the problems have been solved.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-434	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to focus on the fact that the people who come here, Mohammed and others, do not come here because they are passive or unable to take care of themselves, because that is exactly what they are capable of. I have full respect for the fact that the Migration Agency is overloaded with work and that it takes time. But that is precisely why it is so important to simplify the rules. Maybe it doesn't have to be sent a piece of paper. Maybe you can do it a long time after. He may be able to work on his internship while the paperwork is being done, and if there is a problem, you arrange it afterwards. I call for proposals of this kind.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-437	Mr President, I would like to I will take with me the concrete proposal from Mathias Sundin. Of course, it is important to work with different types of regulatory simplifications and also to find flexible solutions in a situation that is extreme. I think that Sweden has so far been good at trying to find flexible solutions in a situation when so many people came. For us, it is important to make sure to increase the resources to the Migration Agency in order to speed up the process. We have also increased the resources for civil society to, among other things, organise activities and refugee guides and ensure that we have activities at asylum accommodations.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-439	Mr President, I would like to I have a question addressed to Minister Aida Hadzialic. The School Act is clear that students in upper secondary school have the right to a certain guaranteed teaching time. Today, however, there is a complete lack of follow-up as to whether students really have the teaching time they are guaranteed by law. In a report from the Swedish National Agency for Education 2015, there is contradictory information about whether high school students really get the guaranteed teaching time. There are, for example, principals and schools that use the guaranteed teaching time more as a benchmark than a statutory right for students. I believe that teaching time in both primary and secondary schools needs to be quality assured. What does the Government want to do to ensure that the guaranteed teaching time in high school is actually held?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-443	Mr President, I would like to The government is now looking at the issue of teaching time, both if more is needed and how quality can be improved. Above all, I would like to dwell on the latter, how the quality of school can be improved in order for us to have equal education throughout the country. This means that teachers should be given the right conditions for teaching. There'll be more of them. The attractiveness of the teaching profession must be strengthened. But in order for us to get proper education and for it to be really good, we also need to ensure that all schools have good conditions for teaching, that those with the toughest conditions should have even more resources, that we close the gap that currently exists between knowledge and grades, so that we know that students are learning for real and not just for a letter on a piece of paper. All these reforms together will ensure that the school is better than it has been so far.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-446	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I will try to be even more concrete in my question. In order to secure pupils' right to a certain period of teaching, we Christian Democrats propose that the School Inspectorate should be given the task of examining how the school heads live up to the requirement of guaranteed teaching time. How does the Government feel about expanding the School Inspectorate's mission, precisely to ensure that all high school students really get the teaching time to which they are entitled?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-448	Mr President, I would like to This government is trying to work on a holistic approach for the school. That is why we have a school commission to look at the major structural changes that need to be made. We have a high school inquiry that will take a holistic approach to the stones you need to turn over there. The question of teaching time ends up in that investigation. It comes at the end of the summer with its final report, so that we can really make sure that the Swedish school education is world class. EU pressure on Macedonian government
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-451	Mr President, I would like to A year ago, I and my colleague Omanovic in Macedonia participated in a demonstration of nearly 100 000 people demonstrating against the then-present government – corruption in progress, interception scandals, the pursuit of dissidents and various forms of non-democratic acts and acts. The election that followed was about a new election being held in May of this year, this month, in order to create a better democratic foundation in Macedonia and create better conditions for people to vote in a correct and sensible way. Now the elections have been postponed again. There are new negotiations going on. The EU is involved. There is still an enormous amount of work to be done. There are new things that the previous government has created. You turn over new stones, and new scandals come out. What does the government think should be done more to put pressure from the EU on the then Macedonian government?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-455	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is very topical. The political situation we are in right now is deeply worrying. Although the main responsibility lies primarily with the government parties, it is up to all the political parties there to take responsibility for the situation that has arisen, for the future of the country and also for the European Union. There are no conditions for holding free and fair elections on 5 June. It is therefore a good thing that the elections have been postponed indefinitely. What you have to do is adjust electoral lists, media laws and other things. I believe that the most important thing we can do on the part of the European Union is to keep up the pressure, to keep our thumbs in the eye of all parties and all parties and to be very specific about what we are demanding them to do in the future.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-458	Mr President, I would like to The President has also pardoned a number of ministers on the basis of the former scandals. There have been many discussions about why the President is carrying out this kind of pardon. He probably does so largely to protect the history that has been in Macedonia. It is extremely serious to behave in this way in such a sensitive political situation.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-460	Mr President, I would like to There are currently discreet negotiations. The Commission plays a role, and the European Parliament has some Members who are there. I believe that this is the right way forward and that it is in this way that we can discuss what needs to be done in the future – ensuring that the whole process of the European Union and its proximity provide the framework for what we also believe they must do in terms of getting a judicial system that works and ensuring that corruption and all that is a very bad political culture are overcome. That is what we are supporting right now.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-462	Mr President, I would like to So good that the Minister of Culture understood that she would be apostrophated. I will follow up on the question that my colleague Isabella Hökmark raised but to which she did not receive an answer and which concerns production incentives for film production. In the bill which the government has put on the table of Parliament, and which we will soon be discussing in this House, there should be proposals for production incentives. Just as we are now introducing tonnage tax to keep some Swedish-flagged ships, Sweden needs production incentives. Only Poland and Sweden do not have production incentives for domestic film production.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-465	Mr President, I would like to Swedish film needs much better conditions than Swedish film has had. There is hardly anyone in the Swedish film industry – there are many different actors – who cannot confirm that. What Swedish film needs is above all better conditions, and this now gives the government Swedish film. We are now putting forward proposals for a new film policy. There are proposals for a host of measures focusing, above all, on two major issues. We will secure funding, and we share power – more will have influence. It will give a lot for the production as well. It will stimulate Swedish film conditions. This does not mean that we are not open to discussing other ways and proposals for the eternal future. But now we have taken a big grip, and now we are creating better conditions for Swedish film. Let it first fall out. Let's see what it actually gives. I think it will give a lot for the Swedish film. We will get more Swedish film with higher quality.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-468	Mr President, I would like to But if there are no production companies in Sweden or any international companies that want to come to Sweden because it is economically disadvantageous, it is just like shipping that was losing all their ships, Swedish flagged ships, because the conditions for competition were completely different.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-470	Mr President, I would like to The major rescheduling that we are now doing for Swedish film is an enormous production incentive. We almost double the efforts for Swedish film, and the conditions change completely. What is now going to happen is amazing. Talk about production incentives!
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-472	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Hadzialic and concerns the Gymnasie investigation. People sitting in the audience or sitting on television may not know what I am talking about right now, but it is about the fact that we set up a parliamentary group where all parties are represented to find out what we can do to reduce the number of drop-outs from high school. We'd think very freely. I, as an old teacher, made two concrete proposals directly. One of these proposals I intend to raise in my first question. This proposal simply means returning to the two-year upper secondary education from the three-year upper secondary education. If you ask these students – 25 percent of them are practical/ aesthetic – they say they don't want to read anymore than necessary. They want to get into work. This is one of the main reasons according to the students themselves. You know that there are various studies that show different things about this. I would like to know what ideas the Government has on this. There is no shortage of opportunities for further reading. Both folk high schools and Komvux can easily catch these people later in life.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-475	Mr President, I would like to An easy way to get everyone to cope with upper secondary school and manage their schooling would be to lower the standards. If we lower the requirements to a rather low level, I don't think we had problems in the Swedish school. But we want qualified students. We want a labour market that builds on Sweden as a knowledge nation. It requires that we have high standards in school but also that we help our students to meet the requirements, so that we really know that we in Sweden will have the very best students with the very best conditions to manage their studies. For me, this is what symbolizes the equal school in its most beautiful thought. It is from these parameters that I want to increase the throughput in the Swedish upper secondary school.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-478	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we don't have the very best students. The way things look right now, we have the very best dropouts. That is the big problem. Another major problem is that we have moved from subject grades to course grades. I would like to know what the Government's thoughts are about this. Students today do not choose the courses that are needed to complete their higher education studies or to be compatible with working life, but they choose the courses in which the highest grade is easiest. This means that the university and working life must in principle start with a base year for these students.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-481	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that we should move from course grades to subject grades. I think it could give students the opportunity to deepen their knowledge, so that they are assessed for the whole and that it is reflected in the final grade. I also think that it could increase the motivation of many students, so that they know what to focus on– if I get a good grade I will get into my dream education a little later. The high school inquiry has been tasked with looking at this, and I hope that those of you in it will be able to deliver a good final report in October.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-484	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Alice Bah Kuhnke. Never before has source criticism and information literacy been as important as now. We are affected by filter bubbles, and we see how myths, hates and threats flourish in social media. Last night I spent a while reviewing and looking through the most hateful pages on Facebook. Mr President, I would like to I will now refer to some of what I have read on Facebook, and I apologise in advance for what I will now say in the speaker's chair. I could read, among other things, the following: What a little creep. Inbred parasites. She's a fucking whore. Should we use the image of her as a target? Many times comments like these stem from fear and ignorance, but restrict freedom of expression in a way that threatens our democratic dialogue.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-491	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. This is a very serious development. The government intends to do a lot, and we are already doing a lot. We have initiated a lot during the year and a half that we have been in government. A central authority in this work and where we channel our efforts to try to halt the development that has been going on for a long time is the State Media Council. This authority has the task of equipping children and young people with media and information literacy – MIK. This tool is used when developing educational material aimed at schools and teachers, but also to the general public, so that we can teach our young people how to handle information and seek sources and be critically examining the information that washes over young people. The National Media Council is also the core – the heart – of a major European campaign called No Hate Speech Movement, which also produces materials and disseminates information in channels that reach young people.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-494	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. We also see that libraries and librarians play a central role in this. Libraries and the competence of librarians are important to meet these challenges. Libraries themselves are willing to take further steps on this issue and contribute media and information literacy. How can the government support libraries in this work and make better use of their potential?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-496	Mr President, I would like to Libraries are a fantastic cultural infrastructure in our country. Over the past few years, the Media Council has trained more than 400 MIK centres with trained staff around our libraries. The government intends to continue investing in libraries. We will strengthen them on the basis of the mandate that libraries already have. This is a fantastic collaboration and an opportunity to counter the hatred in the door.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-498	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Aida Hadzialic. The number of interpreters today is far too small. A particularly important problem is the lack of contact interpreters used when new arrivals are to establish contacts with Swedish authorities and organisations. This became very clear when I visited the Migration Agency, some accommodations, Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan a few weeks ago. The Government has allocated SEK 20 million to increased education for contact interpreters. However, it seems that this money has gone wrong and that not many contact interpreters come out to work.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-501	Mr President, I would like to It is very important that we train more contact interpreters, especially for the safety of public authority and, of course, for the individual. The government has therefore worked with more places in this education. We have also worked to shorten it so that more people can get through it and get the knowledge they need as soon as possible. There are, however, problems, particularly as regards the flow of data. We are now looking at how we can get more people to stay and complete their education so that we have enough contact interpreters to help the individuals in their contacts with the authorities.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-503	Mr President, I would like to The Folkbildningsrådet administers this. A fairly large number of new courses and places have been created around the country, especially at folk high schools. The study associations seem to be the ones who have the most difficulty getting to this in a good way. As many of the authors of the question have mentioned today, it seems to be regulatory simplification and shorter times required. My question remains: how does one actively work to ensure this?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-504	Mr President, I would like to It is about more places and shorter courses. We are also looking at how the training itself can be better so that the flow of through works better than today. For example, a simple trick can be to have more exams than the two times a year you have today. There is one thing we are looking at, but we are trying to take a holistic approach to this. We want proper training that provides legal certainty, so that both the individual and the authority think it works satisfactorily.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-506	Mr President, I would like to On 1 January 2017, Sweden may take place next to a newly elected Secretary-General and hold the Chair of the UN Security Council. This requires that we succeed in getting sufficient support in a vote in the General Assembly on 28 June, where we are faced with two formidable competitors in the form of our EU partners Italy and the Netherlands on the two locations in our geographical group for the period 2017– 2018. One question asked is why we have not been able to agree on a rotation order within the geographical group to which Sweden belongs. One consequence of our failure is that we are now competing with two EU countries. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree with the criticism that it was a mistake to run actively without EU coordination?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-508	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Sweden proposed to agree on a rotational regime in the EU, but did not receive support for this. Large countries, in particular, want to be able to claim these seats, and they also feel that they have the best chance of joining the UN Security Council. The EU is our main foreign policy platform. That's what we operate from outside. But of course it is incredibly important that we are also active in the UN. That's why we ran for office. We were the first to report candidacy. Then it was a clean slate. Then the other two countries came in. They have both been on the Security Council both later and on more occasions than Sweden has. We hope for the best on June 28th.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-510	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. Linked to this, there is also a criticism of the government that candidacy takes place at the price of less Swedish involvement in the EU, not least as regards Sweden's involvement in the EU's common foreign and security policy. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs feel about allegations that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government prioritise the UN at the expense of EU involvement? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider that there is evidence of this? If not, what does the opposite suggest?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-511	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, Europe is our most important foreign policy arena, and that will remain so. We are deeply involved in setting the EU's agenda for the common foreign policy. This is also something that is measured. Sweden took second place this year after Germany in the think tank ECFR's annual ranking of Member States' influence over EU foreign policy. Only a few weeks ago, the Politico newspaper ranked Heads of Government and Ambassadors of the EU countries. Even there, we ended up in the top tier.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-513	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. The Alliance government stated in its proposal Time for culture the great importance of culture for a better welfare. Medical care and care for the elderly were included. Research indicates that people who participate in cultural life have better health and live longer. The Swedish National Council for Culture was commissioned by the Government to allocate approximately SEK 70 million to around fifty multi-annual projects to promote the participation of older people in cultural life. Man's need for experiences, culture and education does not diminish over the years – on the contrary, it rises. The positive results did not wait. It is therefore surprising that the current government has removed this important initiative, Culture for the Elderly. My question is: why does the government not prioritise such an important initiative as Culture for the Elderly?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-517	Mr President, I would like to The impact of culture on us humans is very great, as Saila Quicklund says. Time for culture and one of the interim reports that I have read from Region Skåne shows just that, not least in the area of health. We are setting tough priorities as we invest and invest in culture. But the knowledge that has come as a result of the work that was done is obviously still there. In view of my continued negotiations in the government and with the Minister for Finance, I hope that we can come back and pick up more of the things that we have not yet had time to prioritise. But we've given a lot of priority. We are investing more in culture than was done during the eight years of the bourgeoisie in power.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-519	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer. Continuity is important, not least when projects and reforms are very successful, as in fact Culture for the Elderly was. New projects also make you lose time and speed. We find it strange that the government has not chosen to prioritise such a successful reform. There is enormous frustration about the government's actions among the elderly and among the staff. This frustration is now being conveyed by them via me at this Question Time.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-521	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. I have had several discussions on this with various stakeholders. As always when you are in a government position, these are tough priorities. But the impact of culture on us humans and the effects on health are a fact, so I hope, of course, that we can come back forcefully. I would also like to say that many other actors carry on – it has not stopped – for example, the different regions, libraries and so on, which we are also strengthening. So there is a continuation of the good work.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-524	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Finance. I have noted that there are many bourgeois Members who are very concerned about the Swedish economy. These are the same parties that, during their reign, placed Sweden in an enormous budget deficit. Sweden has managed to recover. We have a good economy, we have order and we have strong public finances. At the same time, unemployment is falling. It is particularly gratifying that youth unemployment is falling dramatically at the moment. My question is: are there any other countries that have managed to recover as quickly as we have?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-527	Mr President, I would like to It is a very strong recovery we see in the Swedish economy. We look at the state finances that we have been able to quickly reduce the very large deficit that we inherited in 2014. We also see that we have very strong growth in Sweden. That is an extremely positive thing. We have a growth that is growing on a broad front right now. We see an increase in household consumption, an increase in public consumption and an increase in business investment. We also see that the Swedish export industry is doing very well. Sweden is extremely strong. This was evident when the European Commission presented its report yesterday. Sweden is the only country to receive only one recommendation from the European Commission. All other countries receive several. It is clear that this is a good rating for the Swedish economy and the Swedish fiscal policy from the European Commission, although there are concerns about household indebtedness. There are further discussions about how we can bring it down.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-530	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that, according to the EU, Sweden is the best country economically. Then we need to make sure that we are good at this and bet properly. It is also gratifying that we are now investing more in health care, welfare, school and so on. But what can we do in the future so that we stick to this and ensure that young people continue to get jobs and that we can continue to make priorities in a good way?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-532	Mr President, I would like to As always, it is important that we pursue a tight fiscal policy. The government has done so all the way, and we will of course continue to do so. It is important that we have good fundamentals in the economy at the bottom. At the same time, it is important that we ensure that we have good welfare in Sweden. That is why we have already announced an historic investment in municipalities and county councils, so that we can have a high quality in school, health care and care. However, we should not forget direct measures, for example in the form of labour market training, for more people to get to work.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-534	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Three masters have been sabotaged in Sweden in a short time – in Tranemo, Borås and Skutskär. Today, airspace was closed over a large part of our country, causing great delays and concern. Is the government informed of the causes and their possible links? Is the government prepared to inform the Swedish people, among other things, to block the flow of speculation that is already out there causing concern?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-537	Mr President, I would like to As soon as the government gets more information and the analysis has been done, we will of course communicate this.
i-4iQrBQM6gHDZnQ9hpTKkSt	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. It is important in this case. As everyone knows, such incidents create speculations about provenance and causes. I therefore welcome the answer from the Government that the Government will inform the Swedish people as soon as the reasons are known.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-539	Mr President, I would like to I understand that's causing concern. Therefore, it is incredibly important that you are correct when you go out from the government and hopefully can give more information about where this is going, what it is that has happened and what we think about causes and what needs to be done. But we will not contribute to creating more concern, but we will return as soon as we have information that we can share with the Swedish people.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-542	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister Wallström. It is about Sweden's candidacy for the UN Security Council. We are living in an increasingly globalised age with cross-border challenges. It is about war, environmental degradation, the labour market, trade and so on. We are affected by what is happening on the other side of the world. At the same time, I sometimes feel that there is a resignation in Swedish debate when it comes to our candidacy. Do we have any chance of entering the Security Council? Does it matter? Can we make any difference or benefit if we manage to get in?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-546	Mr President, I would like to It is often necessary to begin by describing what the Security Council is actually doing: that it is the Security Council that is the highest decision-making body in the UN context, that decides and renews the mandates of the 16 peacekeeping operations going on around the world, that decides on sanctions affecting all countries in the world, and that takes thousands of decisions on statements and situations around the world where there is a risk of war and conflict. It is very important that we consider what we could accomplish. I think we would be a vote in favour of a feminist foreign policy, for example, which asks: where are the women? Are they in the peace negotiations? Are they included in the follow-up to peace agreements? For that matter, we can also contribute what we can about our neighbourhood. We saw, for example, that Lithuania, which is a small country and a non-permanent member, managed to put the issue of Ukraine's situation on the agenda of the Security Council. I think we can influence.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-550	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased because today half the population of the world, namely women, is excluded in many contexts. It is absolutely essential to prevent war and bring about a lasting peace that women are involved in the work. It's crucial for the whole world to get better. We stand up strongly for international law. We have strong positions with Jan Eliasson and Margot Wallström himself, who have had important missions for the UN, so I wish you luck.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-552	Mr President, I would like to I think we should run as well because we have something to be proud of. We have a proud tradition of democracy and human rights and of fighting for the rule of law or for equality around the world. It is a long tradition and something on which we have broad political agreement. Sweden is one of the largest contributors to the UN system – why should we not be in the UN Security Council? Of course we have something to do there, and we do it with others. Of course, we will be governed by the situation of peace and development around the world. I think we'll make it on June 28th.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-554	That concludes Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-555	Mr President, I would like to We have a debate about exercises and our cooperation with other countries. The overall operational capability of the Swedish Armed Forces is based on the existence of joint military units and the existence of knowledge and plans on how to use the combat forces effectively. The ability is developed through training and training. The capacity is enhanced by participation in both national and multinational operations. Regular war unit exercises of entire war units are crucial for developing and maintaining the capabilities of war units. It benefits from increased practice activities, and it provides better opportunities to recruit and retain personnel in the Swedish Armed Forces. Given the changing security policy situation, it is extremely important that our armed forces are able to face many different types of situations and possible scenarios that may arise. It requires both large and small exercises, and it's about all the units. The Government may send Swedish armed forces to other countries or otherwise deploy such forces in order to fulfil an international obligation that has been approved by the Riksdag. The Government proposal we are considering today authorises the sending of armed forces abroad for training and other training. It includes all kinds of training and training. This builds military cooperation with other countries. The international exercises are necessary for Sweden to be ready to deepen and develop cooperation with other countries' military forces and for our defence forces' various units both within the army and within the air force and the navy to be as intertwined as possible. We will help the Swedish Armed Forces to participate in international exercises and training as smoothly as possible. It is about having a right to both individual and collective self-defense. Sweden is practicing together with many other countries in our neighbourhood and with NATO. The exercises have evolved from being crisis management operations to focusing on collective self-defense against qualified opponents. The Center Party shares the government's assessment that it is crucial that the Swedish Armed Forces participate in exercises that focus on collective self-defense against qualified opponents in order to achieve our Swedish defence policy goals. This places demands on both interoperability with other countries and on organisations in all combat forces. There have been interventions in the debate which address different perspectives. This assumes for the future that Sweden can continue to participate in the qualified joint exercises together with other countries. In particular, the defence decision emphasises Sweden's bilateral and multilateral cooperation. It strengthens our security, and it builds trust. It gives long-term and clear signals as to where we stand. The Nordic countries are highlighted as particularly important. Transatlantic cooperation is important for Europe's security, and it is in Sweden's interest to strengthen and deepen its relationship with the United States. Our Swedish defence policy rests on the policy of solidarity in security. A solidarity policy requires that the defence can interact and work together with others. This is a natural step in the right direction. We give the government the power to send armed forces abroad for exercises and other training within the framework of international military cooperation. It would have been a good thing if the joint proposal by the Alliance on continuous accounting and information to the House had been heard at the hearing. It's something we'll have to come back to. According to the decision, we mention, among other things, that Sweden's cooperation with NATO gives us the opportunity to develop our military capabilities. It contributes once again to qualified international crisis management operations. This strengthens the opportunities to build security together with others. In the debate today, I have taken note, among other things, of interventions by the Swedish Democrat Roger Richtoff. He is happy to yell at the alliance parties for decisions taken, Mr President. Roger Richtoff, on the other hand, gladly commends current Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Let us go back a year in time and look at the negotiations. The government made a net bid of 41⁄2 billion. Then we followed up on this and negotiated quite properly. Five parties landed together in an agreement of 10,2 billion gross. The Swedish Democrats have given different pictures during the last year about where you want to go. On the one hand, they say in a motion that they want a host country agreement. On the other hand, they are changing now and resisting this. Roger Richtoff says that on the edge of the alliance we don't care and that we don't understand. We find it difficult to analyse the state of security policy, he says. The Swedish Democrats want to see closer cooperation with Finland. It's okay to do exercises abroad, but it's obviously not okay to do exercises in Norway, Denmark, Poland and the Baltic countries to the same extent. Roger Richtoff also raises the question of how Sweden would act if any of the Baltic countries were attacked. He asks us the question and wonders how we view it. It is very clear: the declaration of solidarity is extremely far-reaching and clear about what is going on. We will help with all available means if any of the countries in the area are attacked. Where's Roger Richtoff? How do the Swedish Democrats in such a situation vis-à-vis the Baltic States if Roger Richtoff were to be responsible for defence policy for Sweden? I believe that there is reason to consider the effects of foreign propaganda warfare and what this entails for our Swedish defence policy debate.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-568	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to answer the questions. Where do the Swedish Democrats stand in the Declaration of Solidarity on the Baltic States? We say clearly no to the fact that the explanation would mean that Sweden will send military troops to the Baltic States if we are attacked. In other words, we clearly say no to declaring that country war. I think Mr Bäckström got a little wrong when he says that the Swedish Democrats would be opposed to practice in Norway. No, we're practicing! I have practised in Norway myself. It's great, and we don't have a problem with it. But it is the constant enlargement and the constant rapprochement – which you yourself are talking about – that we are opposed to. The Swedish Democrats see this as a major step, as other Liberal Members have explained here. Now we're almost there. It's about what we do and not what we say. When we take these steps, it is perceived abroad in exactly the same way as the Liberals and the rest of you see it: as a clear rapprochement with NATO. We Swedish democrats do not want to see that. We are convinced that this puts the balance of security policy at risk. With regard to the analysis and the money you are spending on this, we are now spending EUR 18 billion more on these four years. In the last period, we invested EUR 24 billion more, and we expect another year. You bet zero kroner. The Center Party didn't bet anything, basically. But as soon as you lost power, you went out and hit the drum with the defense deal. And who led it? It was Peter Hultqvist. It was he who made a turn, even if it only means a stoppage and a small break of trend. It was he who accomplished this, and then all came with their commandments and billions here and there.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-572	Mr President, I would like to I think it is an extremely good dialogue we have, including in the defence group where we are having talks about the entrance defence settlement. There are five parties that meet regularly and regularly and follow up the different parts. Clearly, we've come a long way. We start from the situation that Sweden is now in. We will also clearly face new challenges, and we already have many challenges. In the field of security policy in our environment, the picture is now quite clear. It is important to deepen cooperation with the countries with which we together build security. It is important to learn from each other, to meet and to do exercises. There is now a perspective where you make a difference between our Nordic neighbours and want to go further with Finland. In a statement from Roger Richtoff earlier, he has said something different. Mr President, I would like to Roger Richtoff says here in the debate that he wants to reduce the focus on international exercises. At that point, the lack of clarity is a fact, and this in itself helps to make security policy analyses even more complicated to do from where the Swedish Democrats in the Riksdag stand. I hope and believe that this will contribute to stability and a clearer picture of the Baltic Sea for Sweden and for our neighbours. It will also make us even more prepared to practice our solidarity commitment to help the neighbours and countries that need our help.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-576	Mr President, I would like to The Declaration of Solidarity once again: The Center Party intends to declare war with the country that is attacking one of the Baltic countries. It's a fact. Then say that if the Baltic countries are attacked, we will go to war with all the means at our disposal, which is exactly what it says. Challenges? No, we have huge problems. We have problems building up our Swedish defence, not least civil defence. Our big problem is to rebuild our society into a society that we can be proud of and that is sustainable in crisis and war. We are clear that we want to enter into a defence alliance with Finland, and I understand that the Center Party also wants to do so. I'd like you to tell me if you've changed your mind or if I've misunderstood. But my view is that no party would mind if we moved our positions closer to Finland, and if we are to do so, we need to practice more with Finland. We believe that together with Finland we can carry out a very strong defence and contribute to the security of our part of Europe. As far as reducing the exercises is concerned, we do not want to put it on the government, given the ability they have so far shown to determine whether we should send armed troops abroad. We want the Riksdag to make those decisions. And we do not want to increase our operations abroad, but we would like to increase our operations in Sweden. Our attitude is that we need to gather our units in Sweden, because it is with the composite units in Sweden that we will solve the task. Our attitude is: More exercises in Sweden, and preferably together with Finland! Then, like the Center Party, we do not believe that an alliance with Turkey as a party is particularly successful.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-581	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, the Center Party has a clear decision and a will to ensure that Sweden join NATO as soon as possible, preferably together with Finland. We usually say that security we build best together. I consider it natural that we, Sweden and Finland, should do everything we can to develop our defence policy cooperation. It's not about starting war on any neighbouring countries. It is a question of helping our neighbours in a spirit of solidarity if they are attacked. If it is the Baltic States or other countries that are affected, we should be clear support. The clear message in today's debate from Roger Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats is that if the Swedish Democrats are allowed to lead the defence policy work in Sweden, the Baltics cannot count on Sweden's support. So it's not about starting a war. It is about acting in solidarity and providing all the help we can. I believe that this issue will come back in more debates. But when the images are so varied from a party that has a fairly large mandate in the Riksdag, they deserve to be linked to how it affects the image of our security policy strategic position and where we want to go. I assume that the Swedish Democrats will eventually approach the question of Swedish NATO membership and accept, and perhaps also pursue, a policy of good and solidarity agreement with the EU countries and our partner countries, so that we can build security in the best possible way in our neighbourhood.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-585	Mr President, I would like to On the last point, there is a considerable difference between how Sweden, especially the Alliance, expresses itself and Finland's somewhat more sober attitude. There Presidents, regardless of party colours, say that the country should continue to cooperate, discuss and develop contacts with the Russia from which we are basically distancing ourselves here. I'm just saying there's a huge difference. I think the Finns have realized a little bit that Russia is where it is – it will probably be there all the time. Therefore, as Abraham Lincoln said, keep peace with your neighbor, but build a high fence! I do not know if it can make a difference – that we still have some big power dreams left – that we sent troops across the Baltic Sea. It was said that the Swedish army fought until the last Finn was dead. Perhaps this is what Finland has learned from. I looked at what Finland's President Sauli Niinistö says. In a conversation with his ambassadors, he expresses himself as follows: The country is not ready to guarantee the safety of the Baltic states. We are not a great power that has plenty of weapons and can share them with other countries. 5 million Finnish citizens already bear a major responsibility for protecting their own borders. At least that's plain language. Perhaps we should give some thought to what Finland has learned that we have not learned. When Allan Widman gave his opening speech, I thought of a small episode with my grandson when he was a child. He heard the sound of galloping hooves outside the summer house and immediately wanted to be lifted up so that he could look at the zebras. That is, the right observation, the wrong conclusion. And a little bit I think it was also with Allan Widman's post. When we do landing exercises and let the B-52 planes hover over Sweden's territory, it has exactly the signal effects that I think are negative for Sweden's safety. This clearly indicates that we do not have a defence focused solely on defensive measures when we have landing exercises. It is difficult to find anything defensive in it, even though some have tried in this pulpit. It has a security policy signal effect, as Allan Widman says. Unfortunately, we make completely different assessments of what it means. Just as Allan Widman also says, others are not looking at what we say, but at what we do. And you want to move on in our training, armament and armament spiral in our neighborhood. Give me some historical examples of where this has led to peace! Regarding the Alliance's claims, I think they are a little interesting; there is a slightly strange contradiction. So you want to hand over the parliamentary decision-making power to send troops on education other than peace-promoting education to the government. On the other hand, you are asking for a report afterwards. Surely the Swedish Parliament will have a greater influence if it is instead we who make those decisions. What's this bill about? Well, today the government has to decide to send armed forces, but only for peace-promoting purposes. Now they want to extend the mandate so that the government itself can decide, as it is called, to send troops for other training – the government that then happens to be sitting. It is sometimes painful for governments to realize that they are not sitting forever. There may be new governments with new ministers whose bar is significantly lower in terms of different collaborations. Today, Sweden already has the opportunity to send armed forces abroad to participate in education that is not directly peace-promoting, but this requires a parliamentary decision. A change in this division of competences between the parliament and the government enables an increased number of trainings and exercises without peace-promoting activities as a goal. Here the government is taking another step and is proposing that the concept of peace-promoting activities be abolished. The proposed legislative text means that the limitation of the government's right to decide on Swedish participation in military exercises abroad will disappear. It clearly deviates from the ambition that Sweden's participation in international efforts should aim to create peace. I believe that the government proposal should be rejected. I ask you to accept reservation 1. I also think it is clear that the proposed amendment of the law will mean more than just legislative changes. The freedom of military alliance has already been eroded by our EU membership and the so-called solidarity clause. Increasingly close cooperation with NATO and our active participation in both NATO exercises and efforts are making us contribute to militarisation and armament in our part of the world. We are constantly being increasingly tweaked with the NATO that the government says we are not going to become members of – and then we are surprised that the issue comes up time and again. Again, the world around us is watching what we do, not what we say. And I don't think that's just about the supposed friendly outside world. The other world also draws its conclusions and prepares its preparations. The proposed amendment to the law is in line with the policy that has been pursued, which means that Sweden is in practice approaching membership of NATO, but without a democratically-based debate and the political decisions that would be required to form part of such a military alliance. Yesterday some of us discussed NATO Stratcom – another example. Next week we will consider the host country agreement – another example. There is hardly a parliamentary week without us going to deal with new proposals that will twist us ever harder to NATO. Mr President, I would like to To build trust in Sweden as an international player requires a broad commitment to disarmament, conflict prevention efforts, re-establishing respect for international law – not compromising it – and not least a credible military alliance freedom. The release of the requirement for training for armed forces abroad to be aimed at peace-building activities is a step in the opposite direction. International security should be based on cooperation and a strong global regulatory framework under the leadership of the UN. I would therefore like to emphasise that peace-building, peace-keeping and peace-promoting efforts should always be based on a clear international legal basis. We will discuss support for France in the form of ammunition later today. There are also some issues of international law. We'll get back to that. Over the past few decades, Sweden's participation in UN-led efforts has greatly decreased, and instead we have seen an increasing participation in operations led by NATO or the EU. This is a development that we in the Left Party are very critical of. We believe that the UN system should be safeguarded and that Sweden should clearly give priority to participation in UN-led international efforts. This Parliament should pronounce that!
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-604	Madam President, I would like In the Swedish parliament we have a party very far to the right, and we have a party very far to the left: the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party. When you read the reservations on this matter, it is interesting to see that they share one view, namely that our cooperation and increased number of exercises with NATO contribute to the rearmament of the world around us. I would like a comment from Stig Henriksson on how it feels to share these views with someone who is very far away from you. Then Stig Henriksson writes in the reservation as well, and now I read inside if it's okay, that a Swedish tradition of military alliance freedom makes us particularly suitable for the role of peace-promoting force in conflict and trouble spots. As an impartial actor, we can act as mediators in international conflicts and host peace negotiations. This is a good thing, but Norway also does a lot of things, and they are part of NATO. I cannot therefore see how it can prevent Sweden from doing so. Then I have a third question that I am thinking about. Stig Henriksson writes that Sweden sends armed troops abroad for education means, of course, that it is also prepared to translate the knowledge into practice. This is why we have a defence, in order for us to be prepared to put the knowledge into practice, or what does Stig Henriksson think we have a defence for – to employ soldiers and sailors in the act? What is Stig Henriksson's goal with the defense? I'd like to know.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-607	Madam President, I would like On the last point, the problem is that we are being forced increasingly hard into activities with NATO. NATO action has dominated the last 20 years, and it has not led to peace, reconciliation and freedom for the countries that have been subjected to this treatment. Look at the situation in Afghanistan! Look at the situation in Libya! Iraq was not formal but in practice a NATO war. Has this led to the good effects that such activities should reasonably have? The answer is obviously no – hundreds of thousands of deaths. Lena Asplund asks how it feels to have the same opinion as SD. I don't think I'm going to discuss either my emotional life here or that of others. We are trying to make a sober analysis of the proposed measures to see if they benefit Sweden's safety or whether the opposite is true. We have come to the conclusion that the opposite is true, and that is what we stand for. As far as Sweden's role as an impartial country is concerned and Norway is also committed to peace and disarmament despite its NATO membership, it is true. But it is very significant that when a committee in the UN voted on Humanitarian Pledge, which, briefly, aims to ban all nuclear weapons, Sweden voted in favour, Norway abstained – although they have worked for it – and the US of course voted against it. That is what some say about the levels of freedom that would decrease with NATO membership. A host country agreement – and obviously even without a host country agreement – already reduces much.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-611	Madam President, I would like Practicing is important. When you're going to learn how to ride a bike – there may be exceptions – you don't get on a bike and cycle away at once. It's about most of it. When I was going to learn to knit and work at one time I had to practice and tangle on. In the end, it's sitting. It's a bit the same with the defense and the military. It's a matter of practice. Sweden has participated in a lot of NATO efforts, and this has made Sweden's defence more combatable. Sweden has a good reputation abroad. We're good to practice with, and we have good equipment. Why do the Left Party and Stig Henriksson think it is wrong to practice? The Left Party is against peace-promoting efforts. Isn't the whole defense and all the exercises are peace-promoting efforts? The defence is there for Sweden not to be attacked. It's supposed to cost us an attack, and it's supposed to be heavier. Otherwise, a defense would not have been needed. I believe that the whole of the defence is a peace-promoting effort to preserve stability and peace. I would like Stig Henriksson to explain why he does not think it is peace-promoting to practice with others.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-614	Madam President, I would like I think Lena Asplund ends up a little side by side with the facts of the discussion. The Left Party wants to retain the wording that says that the government is only allowed to send off to education for peace-promoting purposes. You want to remove that restriction. Then it is we who provide peace-promoting education – not you. Lena Asplund wonders what we have against practicing. We are very much in favour of practice, but it should primarily be in the protection of Sweden – not to be involved in various efforts together with NATO. Where we have been, the efforts have led to disasters, for example in Libya or Afghanistan. They're disasters. It's not a success path. Above all, there are limited lessons to be learned for the defence of Sweden. I would like to put a counter-question, but we will have to take it at some other time. How realistic is it to insist that we continue our big power dreams from the 17th century and go to war across the Baltic Sea? With the defence budget that Sweden has and the defence policy that we have had, we are fully committed to defending Sweden. Is it really realistic to judge that we could make military efforts on the other side of the Baltic Sea? I certainly think that we should support the Balts, and I can also be concerned about the pressure Russia is exerting on the Balts, but there are many more keys on that piano than that support and assistance should consist solely of military efforts – which we really do not have the ability to do. The Finnish language is so liberating. Implicity is the most dangerous thing of all. What if the bales start trusting us and we don't have the resources to help? Then it is better to say, like Finland, that there are no resources and that you have a full commitment to defend your own country in the event of harassment. A certain sobering in this context would be to be recommended.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-620	Madam President, I would like Since entering the defence policy, Stig Henriksson has contributed calm, objectivity and reason. However, when I hear him compare the solidarity clause and the declarations of solidarity with the great ambitions of the 17th century under autocrats, I do not really make the same assessment that his impact on the debate is such. It is the case with landings that they can be both offensive and sometimes defensive, Madam President, and I would even say that landings can also be part of peace-promoting activities internationally. Stig Henriksson will have to think about an example of landing that took place on a summer day during World War II – Operation Overlord, D-day. Was it a defensive or an offensive landing that was carried out? I must honestly admit that I do not quite understand Stig Henriksson's overall argument. He says at one point that Sweden must do like the Finns, that is, build a high fence. The next moment he accuses Sweden – and I wish it to be true – of contributing to the reconstruction of Europe. There is a particularly worrying situation around the world, Madam President, where nasty things happen week by week right now around the Swedish territory. In this case, the Liberals believe that it is not enough to add just EUR 2 billion annually to the defence budget, but we believe that membership of NATO is also necessary.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-624	Madam President, I would like By definition, a landing exercise cannot be defensive. It's an offensive element. That doesn't stop it being a defense against an attack that's come before. I think that's obvious. What Sweden may have an interest in doing landing exercises could be worth a seminar of its own. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Allan Widman a question, which is a wise and in many respects thoughtful person. Can you explain to me how it is that the Liberals are saying that the parliament will lose its power to decide on courses abroad that are not directly peace-promoting. You want the government – whatever it may be – to have that right to decide. On the other hand, you think it is important to have a report on the progress made afterwards. Is it not of greater value that the Riksdag actually decides on the efforts to be made than to hear what happened afterwards?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-626	Madam President, I would like I am one of those defence policies which, as is often the case, are being accused of over-detailed. Such claims are made almost every week in this House. A large proportion of the combined Swedish practice activities are taking place today in an international context. I think it would be completely impossible, and it would not, above all, lead to an increase in practice, if this exercise were to be preferred in the Swedish Parliament. However, just as in many other defence activities, such as signalling and international efforts, I think it is important for the government to report back so that the parliament can have an insight and follow-up of the activities carried out by the government. As far as landing exercises are concerned, I note that Russia has been practicing them in our neighbourhood for more than ten years. When Stig Henriksson talks about rearmament, I wonder who in our neighbourhood is the most upbuilding – the USA or Russia – in relation to the size of the country? What about violations of international law, which Stig Henriksson mentions? Is it Russia or the United States that is currently violating international law and all the decisions taken by the UN Security Council?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-630	Madam President, I would like It is important to say that not only the limitation that the government should only be allowed to decide if troops for peace-promoting purposes disappear, but the whole concept should be removed. That's what you buy straight off. That surprises me very much. Today's system allows you to train for other purposes, but then the Riksdag must approve it. It is an important and serious step, and then the Swedish elected representatives will be able to say something about it. I am extremely critical of the great armament Russia has done. Military expenditure has quadrupled since 2000. It's not in the right direction. Now, we must not lose sight of the fact that during the so-called 'downtrostering period' from the fall of the Soviet Union to the year 2000 military expenditure was reduced by 93%. Who's fixing up? I'm old enough to remember the Cuban crisis. For those who are slightly younger than me, let me remind you that the Soviet Union wanted to place bases in Cuba, and it was ending in world wars. I think that if Russia were to have agreements with Canada and Mexico to put out bases there, the American reaction would probably be powerful, to put it mildly. On the other hand, Russia must accept NATO's push to their borders. It is naive to think that a former great power with great revenge desire for silence would watch. It leads to the armament spiral, the exercise spiral, we see and that only by incidents can cause accidents. Russia's military expenditure is 10 percent of that of the United States. I suppose that says a lot about the actual power relations, despite the great rearmament that we have criticised.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-634	Madam President, I would like Today, we are discussing the report by the Committee on Defence, which deals with the participation of armed forces in training abroad. Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. Sweden builds security in collaboration with others. It is a cornerstone and honorary word in Swedish defence and security policy. This is not just the case in peace-promoting efforts. Through our membership of the EU and through the Swedish Declaration of Solidarity, there is a commitment that Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack strikes another EU country or Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Our country should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. Before I go further, Madam President, I would like to address a question to Roger Richtoff, who, in his speech, meant that Sweden should not send as much as a soldier to the Baltic if those countries are attacked. Is it the case that the Swedish Democrats want to tear up the declaration of solidarity? That's the point. In that case, I would like to give Roger Richtoff the chance to sort out these concepts, because I think it is so notable that it requires a further explanation. To move forward on the matter that we are debating: Exercise activities in the countries in our neighbourhood that Sweden practice with, and within NATO, have developed from crisis management operations against an inferior and less qualified opponent to focus more on collective self-defense against qualified opponents. This is in line with the 2015 defence decision. What we in the Christian Democrats think is very positive is that we are now in the NRF. We will decide next week on the host country agreement, and we are the partner country of NATO. But that's not enough. We need to become a full member of NATO and thus get that protection. Today we have the problem that we are seen as a NATO country but do not have protection. We don't have §5. We don't have transparency. We don't have the influence. Above all, we cannot have defence planning together that would be so valuable. That is why we should get Swedish NATO membership as soon as possible. The proposal to give the government the power to send armed forces abroad for training and other training, covering all kinds of training and other training activities in the framework of international military cooperation, is, in this context, a natural step. By practicing with others, the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities are strengthened, and Sweden's defence capabilities are ultimately strengthened. It is important, however, that the Riksdag is kept informed of the practice and education activities abroad that Sweden with armed forces conducts together with others. It is important to get a picture of how the Swedish operational capability develops and how we strengthen our interoperability with other countries in order to be able to act together in the event of a crisis or war. If the Riksdag is to fulfil its audit role, it is also required that there is good access to information and transparency in the activities. It is precisely this, Madam President, that we demand in our reservation: that the government should return annually to Parliament with reports on the exercise and education being carried out and the elevating effects achieved by this.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-643	Madam President, I would like We have had a long and intense debate here. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the proposal and rejection of the reservations. It is important to do the right things, both now and for the future. We saw a bit of what might be the right things yesterday, when some of us here in the hall were invited to Linköping and got the opportunity to look at Saab's rollout by the new JAS Gripen E. I think it was the right decision. It will be a boost for Sweden and also for other nations – I am thinking primarily of Brazil. But powerlifting can also be practicing, as we are discussing today. After all, we have a stronger security situation out there on the Baltic Sea, and we have a safety policy that we have adopted together here. In it we have said that it is obvious that we must practice. It is also obvious that we need to practice with others. It is in the specialization bill, and that is what we discussed very much in the Defense Committee – the need to practice with others. I looked into the Swedish Armed Forces website today and looked at all the exercises listed there. That's a lot. There are exercises in Sweden for us Swedes, of course, but there are also exercises in Sweden together with other countries and exercises internationally, out there somewhere. I think this is very good. Let me just mention a brief exercise: Baltops, which we are facing in a moment. It is thus a performance in a larger multinational composition of forces with the aim of practicing in a large group together with others. There are 17 countries that are involved. This is important. But we also have exercises with Finland, with the Nordic countries, with the Baltics, with the USA and of course with NATO, so I appreciate that the Swedish Armed Forces' side is updated and that you go in and read there about both the purposes and which countries are involved. So this is because we have a solidarity policy. In our declaration of solidarity, we also say that we should be able to both give and receive support. It's important. But in this we must ultimately be able to face armed attacks, and then we must practice for it. Otherwise, it won't work. This means that we participate in very large exercises and also in very many exercises. Yes, this is a change. It is a change that we should have joint combat units of this size and that we are currently working on gradually increasing our capabilities. It's very important. We also demand that we be able to work with others if anything should happen. This whole new thing that we are now facing comes out of the Authority investigation. There was authority for the government to decide certain things, but now we are removing the restrictions. That is what this is all about. We remove the restrictions so that in every case you do not have to go to Parliament and ask for permission when it comes to military training. It is certainly not about sending troops to other countries anywhere in the world, but then we will be involved in making that decision here in Parliament before sending anyone. If you send people off to education, you can't play the whole scenario, what's going to happen, before that. Instead, we will be able to ensure that we are included in the exercises and training that we need. So I think this will be a very good decision, and I look forward to next week pressing the button for this.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-653	Madam President, I would like I've been in the speaker's chair before, but I'm going to answer some questions that came up. As far as the declaration of solidarity is concerned, we believe that we are very clear. We want to write something like Finland. Like Finland, we are prepared to support the Baltics – but not military. What is not understood in that clarity? How's the Alliance? What do you want? Do you want Sweden to guarantee troops to the Baltic States? I would be grateful for your answer, because if a Baltic country – NATO – is attacked and we send soldiers there, we will declare that country at war. Can't you be clear and say, "Yeah, let's do that"? Watch it, KD and Oscarsson! Come up and say it! How's the clarity there? Is that yes or no? Are we going to war then? That would be interesting to know. Then it all slides more or less into a NATO debate here. I'm not going to go into that right now. We have that debate next week. But one can well note that not long ago several alliance parties shared our view that Sweden would be outside NATO. It's easy to forget. You fought for us to be outside NATO. It turns pretty fast when you're not in a government position anymore. Finally, the Russian Foreign Minister, who was criticised here, is clear. He sees the same as many others, namely a clear step towards NATO. You move your dressings up. There's nothing strange about that. That's the case with the Iscanderbots in Kaliningrad and so on.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-658	Madam President, I would like The declaration of solidarity contains a clear commitment from Sweden. We should not be passive in the event of a disaster or an attack on another EU or Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Our country should therefore be able to provide and receive support, both civilian and military. It is interesting to have it confirmed that the Swedish Democrats want to tear up the declaration of solidarity. This, of course, has consequences for how other countries view us. If Roger Richtoff were to have the opportunity to dictate Swedish foreign policy, it would be a clear signal that causes other countries to ask themselves why they should stand up for Sweden if Sweden has ruled out from the beginning that we could stand up with a single soldier if Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania were attacked. I would also like to mention a historical perspective. I'm thinking about the '46 Balt Extinguishment. Then we handed out balts that fought for a free, independent Baltic. They were close to 3,000. This is a deep wound in our relationship with the balts. I think it will be salty in the wound for our Baltic friends if they are told that the Swedish Democrats are so selfish that they directly exclude sending military aid. Can I confirm that this is the position of the Swedish Democrats?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-662	Madam President, I would like I don't know whether to laugh or not. How many times do I have to say the same thing before Mikael Oscarsson understands? I'll take it again. We are prepared to support the Baltics, but not military. Point. What is it that you don't understand in it, Mikael Oscarsson? It's amazing. We want to be clear. But answer my question. Should Sweden guarantee troops and go to war if the Baltics are attacked? Then I'm talking symbolically about a soldier, but even Mikael Oscarsson should understand that it's not about us sending an individual soldier, but we're sending troops there. We are therefore declaring war on those who attack the Baltic countries in this case. Now answer yes or no. Should Sweden go to war if the Baltics are attacked by another power, a great power? As far as the declaration of solidarity is concerned, we want it to be the same as Finland. They're clear. They do not have a defence force that can guarantee such a thing. In addition, I believe that the Estonians themselves, if I am not mistaken – Mikael may well correct me in that case – say that declarations of solidarity are not credible if you do not have the capacity to live up to them.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-665	Madam President, I would like Solidarity is from the beginning a French word that amounts to one for all, all for one. It is quite obvious, then, that we will be there, just as it is stated in the Swedish declaration of solidarity. We expect to get help if we get hit. We have said that we are doing both civilian and military work. We can't rule out military aid. Otherwise, the declaration of solidarity is of no value. To say that we can do it but that we will not send soldiers if necessary are empty words. I think the attitude of the Swedish Democrats is a betrayal of our Baltic friends. Solidarity for me is far more than just saying that we can do it but not militaryly. We may not be able to play a decisive role, but we will do what we can.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-667	Madam President, I would like I think you in KD are on a much more dangerous road than you think, Mikael Oscarsson. If you make a declaration of solidarity that involves going to war with the attacker, and then sending troops to the country in question – in this case a NATO country – it blows directly in Sweden. It will be a massive attack on Sweden, because we have declared war. You have to try to do another analysis. This is extremely dangerous. The freedom of the Alliance has served us well. We want a strong Swedish defence – this is our line – preferably in association with Finland. Russia would like to see this. NATO is also happy to see that. Any explanation that cannot be met with credibility creates uncertainty. At least now we've made it clear that you're going to war. You are putting Sweden on the foot of war if Latvia or Estonia is attacked. That's exactly what you're saying. I am just saying: preserve us for that policy!
i-4YTzGBuyPbVfaxdEs3m128	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 2. We are militaryly non-aligned and decide for ourselves all the resources of our defence. When someone appeals for help, we decide for ourselves whether to help. Of course, such a decision can be difficult, but when France asks for help – yes, it is not difficult. France is one of Europe's most important countries which has contributed a great deal to Europe's economy, technology and culture. Nor can we forget how France helped us in 1854 in the battle of Bomarsund on Åland, where 12 000 French soldiers participated. The Russians lost the battle, and the English and French offered Sweden the fortress at Bomarsund. Unfortunately, we did not have such a military position that we could accept the gift. On the other hand, Åland was demilitarised. We have every reason to repay France for this benefit they did to us. On the other hand, we ignore the fact that the French invoke Article 42(7) of the Treaty on European Union. The EU is not a supranational framework for Europe's defence. Defence issues within the EU should be intergovernmental. The decision to help France does not become more difficult when we know the cause of the distress call: the ravages and threats of Islamic terrorists for the future. We Europeans should face Islamist terrorism together. Together, we should secure, militarily and policely, both Europe's external borders and our internal borders, in the face of such threats. Our intelligence services should jointly detect and find terrorists who are a threat to all of us. The terror now experienced by France and the other countries of Europe is not the first. Historically, Muslim forces have tried several times to take Europe. At the battle of the Poitiers in 732 C.E. in France, the Franks defeated a Muslim army — it was prevented from penetrating north. At the battle of Vienna in 1683 a Polish-German here struck the 150 000 strong Muslim here who besieged Vienna. Of course, it would have been worse today if we had had Muslim armed armies that ravaged Europe. But situation one is still terrible. We have an enemy who not only wants to take terrain but also wants to humiliate us. We have an enemy who does not follow the laws of war and who shoots at the Red Cross. When faced with a diabolical opponent of this kind, we have a difficult problem of a completely new character. When Islamists shoot at the Red Cross in combat areas, there is a similarity to our no-go zones, where ambulances are attacked. The enemies are scattered around us—they have nestled into our societies. The fight against Islamism is thus a hybrid war. ISIL in Syria is a military opponent. But the way they performed in France are pure terrorists. Since we have military advisors in Iraq and help France in Syria, we are also involved in the hybrid war against ISIL. A natural consequence of this should be that we put famous ISIL soldiers in Sweden in prisoner-of-war camps. Unfortunately, that is not the case. How we prepare to resist a development like that in France is not much discussed. A very big problem is that we no longer have general military service. General military service taught men how to group for protection. In most younger men today, this knowledge is lacking. Modern society is very vulnerable as urbanisation continues. We can look at it globally and note that in 1900 10 percent of people lived in cities. Now half of all people live in cities, and progress is moving fast in this direction. At the same time as we live increasingly densely and the production of goods and energy is becoming increasingly large-scale, vulnerability is increasing. There are a lot of points where our cities, our infrastructure and our livelihoods can be attacked. It is very difficult to defend oneself on all points at the same time. It is difficult to defend oneself against attacks from within society, from your own citizens or others who are in Sweden. Unfortunately, we have also dismantled our civil defence. We can certainly be pleased that all parties now want us to regain civil defence. But wanting to take back is one thing, and actually taking back is another. The government shows very little real ambition to want to rebuild civil defence. I hope that it does not end with all the Swedish authorities only receiving a brochure or an evening course that they will start working together. Civil defence must be organised with protection of the work, operational defence, duty of duty, emergency stocks and civilian commanders. Army and amphibious forces must be increased in order to increase the robustness of society against hybrid wars and terrorism. Madam President, I would like We're vulnerable, but we can do a lot to protect ourselves. I'll tell you something about the vulnerability and our readiness. We're going to have an invasion defense again, and that places high demands on our readiness. In fact, preparedness is one of the main parameters of the invasion defence. We cannot, therefore, spare the ammunition that we sell to France for longer than absolutely minimal. It must be an end in itself to acquire the same amount of ammunition immediately.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-681	Madam President, I would like I'll try to stick to the matter in time and space. I think it's interesting enough to do that. First of all, I would like to agree with those who have expressed earlier in this House that the terrorist attacks in Paris were brutal and terrible. They reaped innocent lives and were, in fact, an attack on the basic security of all of us. Democracies must respond vigorously and firmly to such attacks. International terrorism can only be combated with international cooperation. That's how far it's easy. I think it goes without saying that Sweden should assist every democracy that is subjected to an act of terror and that is asking for help. Sweden as a nation is also bound, by the Treaty on European Union, by the provision on mutual assistance. I think that Sweden responded quickly when France invoked Article 42(7), although it was not the decisive factor in our positive position. Nevertheless, I request that the proposal be rejected and that reservation 1 be approved. I would like to add five reasons for that rejection. The first reason is that I believe that the UN Charter's ban on violence is being undermined if every terrorist attack is to be seen as a go-ahead for action in individual and collective self-defence under Article 51 of the UN Charter. What can such a loosening eventually bring? Yeah, it's not hard to imagine. China believes that the Uighurs are committing acts of terrorism. Some of them certainly do, but even quite innocent in the opposition are classified as terrorists. Some of the Uighurs live in Sweden. If this starts to slip away, can we expect action to be taken against such terrorists in Sweden? The United States once classified Nelson Mandela and ANC as terrorists. Some, not so few, of ANC's members were in Sweden. What would have happened if this slip had already existed? Do we want to see more Lillehammer cases? What is it? Well, the Lillehammer case was a criminal case where a Norwegian waiter of Moroccan origin, Ahmed Bouchiki, was shot to death. He was murdered in Lillehammer in 1973 by agents on behalf of Israeli intelligence services Mossad. Mossad had realised that Bouchiki was actually Ali Hassan Salameh, a well-known terrorist in Black September, who, among other things, carried out the Munich massacre during the 1972 Olympic Games. Bouchiki was shot dead on his way home from the movies. Next to him was his pregnant Norwegian wife walking. This could happen if you let this slide. I think you should think about whether this is good or not. It is not unknown that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' international legal counsel has said that it is not clear, in international law, in terms of this support. That was the first reason. I shall now turn to the second recital. From the point of view of international law too, I think it must be stressed that the right of self-defence and the reference to Article 51, and also the solidarity clause, do not necessarily involve military action. Sweden has the opportunity to assist in other ways and should do so. I am thinking of the support measures that we have so far decided on – various types of air transport, support with staff officers and an extension of the Swedish training grant in northern Iraq. These are support measures for France. We have seen this as positive and positive. Then comes the third reason. As far as military aid is concerned, I would argue that the export of ammunition is counterproductive from the point of view of counter-terrorism. Even so-called precision weapons have shown that at least 90% are civilian victims. For every suspected terrorist who is killed, the risk is therefore imminent that the human suffering and hatred that arise in the wake of all civilian deaths means contributing to the recruitment of terrorists to the very organisations that they want to combat. We could say, for every terrorist killed, maybe nine new ones are born. This is therefore counterproductive from the point of view of counter-terrorism. To admit that the government provides France with ammunition, therefore, I see as the wrong way to go. This is the fourth reason. We have other methods. Sweden's strength lies in the experience of acting as mediators in peace processes and being able to deliver extensive humanitarian aid to war areas. Today, the UNHCR estimates that 13.5 million people in Syria are in need of humanitarian aid. 4.8 million people are fleeing beyond the borders of the country, and at least 250 000 people have lost their lives. It is on these points that Sweden can make the greatest difference. It is about supporting the process within the UN to bring about a peace process. In all the peace talks that have started, Sweden should be a driving force to ensure that they are conducted with all the parties involved and that women and minorities in particular are included in the peace process. The fifth reason I have concerns the preparation of the bill. Neither the Strategic Product Inspection, the ISP, nor the Export Control Council have dealt with the issue of selling ammunition to France. I find that most unsatisfactory. I think the system has been short-circuited. In tricky cases, the ISP should ask the government how to deal with a matter. How can they do that today, when the government's bid to sell this ammunition to France is made? In practice, what scope does the ISP have to act freely in accordance with its official mandate in a situation where the government has taken a stand on the matter even before the Authority has been consulted? This leaves some question marks. For these reasons, I believe that Parliament should reject the Government's proposal in the bill.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-692	Madam President, I would like Cooperation and cooperation with other countries are important. I am of the opinion that it is only a good thing. It creates security and security for our people. It also preserves the peace in which we live. I believe that this is extremely important to have with you and that it is important for all countries. In particular, I believe that it is important for small countries to work with others to create security and security. The origins of the fact that we are discussing this today are the terrorist attacks that took place in Paris, France, last November. It was, of course, a tremendous and terrible tragedy. It was a cowardly attack on a democracy. And we should all be aware that this can happen to us too. We've seen attempts. A few months later, Brussels suffered such an attack. When we cooperate with countries, I think it is important that they feel that we will be there if necessary. If it should happen to us and we need help, we also need that support. We are part of the European Union and must support the other members. We must support our Nordic neighbours and our Baltic neighbours. I think this is extremely important. We have signed this Treaty on European Union. The Solidarity Declaration is very clear. Here there has been a request from France for help in their struggle, or rather in our struggle, against Daish/ IS, which threatens the democracy in which we live. The issue we are debating today is ammunition. It is important to say that in the request that was made it was also about transport flights, staff functions and continued training efforts in northern Iraq. It goes without saying to me and the Social Democrats that we are helping in these situations. The question that should still be asked is: Can we spare this? In our neighborhood we have a neighbor who is authoritarian and behaves aggressively. We have seen how Russia has acted in Ukraine and how it acts in the Baltic States. We see increased activity in the Baltic Sea. We notice cyber attacks, we have today had flights that lay down and so on. What's going on? We shall think about this. Can we spare this? Here we must trust the assessment made by the Swedish Armed Forces and the ÖB. We have had discussions in committee with them, and they have described that it is possible to spare this. I think it is important that we have with us that we can do it, because perhaps it is a question that is always asked. Before I fully support this proposal, I would like to say that there is a discussion about the level at which we are going to do this type of order and how we are going to replace it. Now we have an addition on the part of the committee which we Social Democrats support. Then I think you always have to think about what level of detail we politicians should be at and what we should leave to the Armed Forces and the Commander-in-Chief to handle. If we become too detailed in our governance, we can paralyze a whole business, and that would not be right. But I will not prolong the debate. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-700	Madam President, I would like On 13 November 2015, France was subjected to a number of bloody, terrible acts of terror. What happened, in the form of people who were injured and killed, grabbed us like a cold, hard fist around our hearts. For most of us, it was just as natural to express our disgust at these atrocities as it was obvious to explain that we are on France's side in the fight against international terrorism. France also came to ask for assistance from other Member States under Article 42(7) of the EU Treaty. In connection with an EU meeting with its European colleagues, the Swedish Minister for Defence promised that Sweden would assist in a substantial way. Although this position had not been established in advance, it was a moderate approach that we welcomed. Of course, Sweden will assist in the fight against terrorism in a substantial way. Then there were party discussions and discussions about how the support for France could take place. It became clear quite quickly that the red-green government's ambitions were too low. This was certainly a combination of consideration for more internal left-wing radical forces and that the 2016 international intervention account had already been exhausted in practice. In short, Madam President, there was neither will nor money. Nor was there any ambition to increase the will or find other means. A morning when there was a conversation with Peter Hultqvist on another matter came a summons to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It announced that it rejected the Alliance's proposal to send Swedish fighter aircraft to the region to participate under the conditions and conditions permitted by international law. We agreed to assist with hours for the tactical transport flight C-17, based in Hungary. We also agreed on the French request for ammunition that we are discussing today. Hastily and amusingly, a press conference was then held in which the Swedish Government, in my opinion, was presented by Foreign Minister Wallström and Minister of Defence Hultqvist. These two ministers are not here during the debate. Otherwise, they tend to participate many times when we are discussing heavy defence and security policy issues, but not today. And I think they are not here because they know that we in the Alliance are disappointed that the French request under 42.7 was not filled with heavier and more extensive content. As this is the first time this particular article of the Treaty on European Union has been activated, it has also been levelling and prejudicing. As we have now chosen to treat a country, we should expect to be treated ourselves if it is Sweden that is asking for help and support. Madam President, I would like It is slowness, slowness and inadequacy that have marked the actions of the Red-Green Government. Sadly, there is no minister on the ground to listen to this justified criticism. Madam President, I would like With regard to support for France with some ammunition, we have moderated that we are willing to say yes as long as the Swedish Armed Forces are in favour. Swedish defence capabilities must not be jeopardised. Thanks to the Alliance, during the discussion the Committee on Defence has further tightened up the government's proposal. The government wanted authorisation to dispose of the sales revenue for the acquisition of equipment equivalent to the one sold. Thanks to our alliance motion, the Riksdag will now instead support the Government's immediate decision to order the quantity and type of ammunition sold to France. It is thus possible to reduce the potential threat of a glitch. Worth remembering is that France pays, does not get. Is this business, then, desired by France? Yes, very much so. That's why it's natural to support it. Once again, there are two parties that fall from and who have some different reservations of their own, namely the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party respectively. But, Madam President, on France's list was also more. In this context, I think that fighter aircraft would have been an excellent complement, all the more so as, in December, there was also a letter from the United States calling for more countries in the ISIL/ Daish coalition to do more and contribute further to the fight against terrorism. In addition, Sweden usually prides itself on being part of the inner core of the coalition, consisting of about twenty nations. Then we should be able to do more. Madam President, I would like There is a fight against terrorism. Sweden is part of the coalition's inner core in the fight against ISIL/ Daish. A country on our continent is being attacked and, for the first time, is asking for support and assistance under Article 42(7) of the Treaty on European Union. Then we should have been able to do more and be clearer. Then our contribution should have been substantial. I regret the slowness, the slowness and the inadequacy, but I would nevertheless ask for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-716	Madam President, I would like It's almost touching. I believe that this is the first time that Mr Wallmark has missed S-ministers so much that he has expressed during his speech. I thought that was nice, even though I shouldn't be ralliing over it any more. I can understand the missing person, if I say so. I'm a little fascinated by this. So we would have preferred to have sent fighter planes over Syria. Is it the good experience, not of the operation itself, but of the result of the last time we sent fighter planes to a war scene, namely Libya, and the good results there – for the people of Libya and its development – which makes Hans Wallmark think it appropriate for another country to have fighter flights across Syria's territory? Otherwise, I would think the big problem is that there are too many countries, including Syria itself, that have fighter planes there, which leads to some problems. I would also like to ask another question. I tried to put forward five arguments which have led us to the view that we would like to support France, but not in this way. There are some international law, legal and other problems with it. Does Hans Wallmark have any comment on these objections?
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-720	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for that, Stig Henriksson! It is not that I generally go around missing Social Democratic ministers. I basically think there are too many of them. I would argue that this is a matter of principle. It has also been a rather long prelude, in which not least the government has given the impression that it is going to support France in a substantial way. There are some interesting questions raised by Mr Henriksson himself. I think it would have been good to say that a Minister for Foreign Affairs or a Minister for Defence had been the one to comment, explain or defend in relation to the issues that both Mr Henriksson and Mr Wallmark have now raised. I think that there is reason for both of us, both the Left Party and the Moderates, to regret this absence. What we have said is that we know that there was a request from France also for fighter planes. We also know that in the case of the coalition, not least the inner core, of which Sweden is a part, there is a desire for clearer and stronger support. There are more countries that have decided on fighter aircraft to the region, such as Denmark and the United Kingdom. I believe that there is good reason to believe that there is a strong and clear legal basis for action in the area. As Mr Henriksson pointed out, Sweden was involved in the work in Libya. The Swedish fighter aircraft, however, provided air surveillance; we took pictures. It has been stated that approximately 40 per cent of the image material used was available thanks to the efforts of Swedish women and men. I believe that it helped to minimise the damage to the civilian population in various ways in relation to what was done in Libya. I think that is basically a good thing. Swedish participation would have been in the interests of peace and freedom in various ways, but I regret that there is no minister who wants to take this debate with me or Mr Henriksson in this House this evening.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-727	Madam President, I would like I really have nothing to add. A certain missing person also knows me. It would have been interesting to be able to discuss and seriously debate the aspects of international law and the legal aspect, with the ISP being thrown in a little bit like the yeast after the bread in this context, which is a problem in itself that is worth mentioning, and perhaps further developing the other efforts we should also continue to develop in terms of support both to France and to the tormented people of Syria. There are a lot of things that could have been discussed in a calm and good spirit. That's not what happened. We'll have to settle for each other.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-730	Madam President, I would like Let me stress that it is certainly not to be content with the worst thing to have Mr Henriksson to debate with. I agree with Mr Widman that Mr Henriksson has contributed a great deal to the Swedish defence debate, especially because he makes it clear that there are clarity and differences. We shouldn't be afraid of that. In this particular question it is clear that there is a left-wing perspective and a more bourgeois perspective on the issues. Therefore, I think it would have been useful for the left-wing perspective to have received answers or comments from a left-wing perspective, not least the questions raised about the purely formal nature of the arms trade and arms exports. For my part, I feel quite confident about the way in which the government has now put forward the proposal in its proposal. But, Madam President, there are such legitimate arguments from the Left and also the Green Party, which Mr Henriksson puts forward and which I think should have been met by someone other than a moderate representative. I believe that this brings to light the fight we must wage against ISIL/ Daish and terrorism. I would just like to emphasise once again, although Mr Henriksson and I have different opinions: I would have liked more. I think that was inadequate. Henriksson participated in the party deliberations that we had. Already there we could note that there were some differences between the left-wing position, which has then remained, and the moderate position, which has also remained. My regret is not that Henriksson has come to his conclusion – he has been very clear about this throughout the trip – but that the government could not cope more, especially a government where the Swedish Defence Minister told his French colleague that we should stand on their side in a substantial way. Then I think that this has basically been slow, slow and inadequate.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-736	Madam President, I would like Members! Following the terrible terrorist attacks that took place in Paris in November 2015, France appealed for both assistance and support from other EU Member States. The terrorist attacks were not just an attack and an attack on Paris and France, but on the entire open society. For us in the Center Party, since those days in November, it has always been important and of course that we from the Swedish side should show solidarity with France and the French people and that we should respond as quickly as possible to their request for support. In the autumn of 2015, we agreed to continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in northern Iraq, and we welcomed discussions on other collaborations, military or civilian, in the fight against Daish and terrorism. At the beginning of December, the government invited the opposition parties to dialogue and discussion on what Sweden's response to France's petition and questions might be. The centre party's starting values in these discussions were that France's explicit needs and the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment of needs would be the basis for what kind of support Sweden should provide. But we stressed that the support would be solid. Questions concerning Swedish security interests and the life and health of Swedish citizens require broad political agreement. This is part of the Swedish security policy interests. Therefore, a broad political agreement would have been desirable. The government's package was based on economic opportunities, and at that time it was about SEK 40 million. This resulted in a number of points that we have jointly followed: strategic air transport, tactical air transport, officers to Minusma, reinforced contributions to Mali, among other things. The Alliance parties were in favour of the basic package, but we also wanted the government to offer France a broader range of support, for example with reconnaissance efforts and then within the framework of international law. This would also be done under a clear governance structure. As I said, the government's assessment was based on what the economy made possible, and there was no further reinforcement of the money. A broad offer was important to us because this is about how we respond to France's request under 42.7. This also applied to the request received from the United States. We were and are ready and open to discuss ways to further strengthen the basic package and find appropriate funding for it. The problem has not stopped. It continues with further wars and sharp terrorist actions. We must see how we can best share the resources available to Sweden. We must see how, within the framework of international law, we can make the most effective contribution to the fight against Daish. The Declaration of Solidarity has broad support in the Swedish Parliament for breast-feeding. This occupies a central position in Swedish security policy. In practice, it means that Sweden will not, and will not, remain passive if a disaster or attack strikes another EU country or Nordic country. We expect to be treated the same way we treat others. That is why the starting point for the discussion is extremely important. It is also about the long-term consequences of this in both our cooperation and in our enhanced cooperation with other countries. It is also about how it affects the fight against terrorism. France has, among other things, asked for support with certain ammunition. We are dealing with this on the basis of the Government proposal. We agree with the proposal. We also welcome the fact that there is an announcement on the basis of the Alliance's proposal to begin, as soon as possible, the replacement of the equipment that will be lent. This is a support that, as the government very clearly points out, is important in the event of an emergency, crisis and armed conflict. It is also part of the framework agreements that exist between several countries. We will have to follow up on how this will be in practice when it comes to economics and accounting. This also applies to the type of level of compensation for the practical replacement and what this means for the Swedish Armed Forces. Given the state of security policy and how it changes, this is an important issue for us to tackle together. Madam President, I would like I hope and assume that this will contribute to and be a help and support in France's work together with other states in order to go further in the fight against Daish and in the fight against terrorism. It can prevent and prevent such terrible attacks. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-747	Madam President, I would like The report we are debating this afternoon is about aid to France with defence equipment. Before I get into this, I would like to draw a little background to the subject. In the tracks of the Arab spring, space arose for the terror cult Daish. Daish is the worst, and unfortunately the richest, terrorist organization the world has ever seen. Daish's systematic mass murder of Christians and Yazidians is nothing more than genocide. The fundamental motives of the terrorist cult are clearly stated and aim at ethnic and religious cleansing of everything that does not fit into its own narrow definition of Salifist Sunniislam. In practice, these are all the people who make up the Chaldean, Syrian and Syrian minorities in Iraq and Syria. The number of Christians in Iraq has fallen from 1.5 million people to 500,000 in the last ten years. The rest have been killed or forced to flee abroad. The situation in Syria is similar to that in Iraq. At least one third of the country's 600,000 Christians have been forced to flee. Madam President, I would like Friday 13 November 2015 is such a date that I think will always be stuck in our consciousness. This is the case for me, and so I think it is for everyone else who is sitting in this Chamber and for those who listen to the debate. We know exactly where we were when we received the message of what was happening and was about to happen on November 13. I myself was putting our little daughter, who is three and a half years old, to bed when these texts began to get into her phone — the flashes about what was happening. What was it now? Let me remind you of that. As I said on 13 November. France met Germany in a football friendship match. In the middle of the game, about twenty over nine, the first explosion outside the arena is heard, followed by two more explosions. A man is killed. But we know in retrospect that something much more terrible was envisaged. With automatic weapons in hand, two men a few minutes later open fire at a bar a bit away. The shooting continues towards the restaurant across the street. There 15 people died. A minute later, five more people are killed in a restaurant a stone's throw away. Five minutes later, another shooting takes place at another bar and 19 people are killed. Ten o'clock to 10 o'clock, the massacre begins in the concert hall. The terrorists are shooting right into the audience. About a hundred people are being taken hostage. 89 people are murdered. A total of 130 people were killed and 350 people were injured in this terrorist attack. As Stig Henriksson mentioned, this has also happened in Brussels. There is something that can happen in Stockholm as well. We had five years ago on Drottninggatan a person who had also been trained by what would then become IS. He failed everything, but if he had succeeded, it would have been a crater in the inner city of Stockholm. Madam President, I would like On 17 November, on the basis of this appalling attack, France chose, for the first time in the history of the European Union, to invoke the EU's solidarity clause 42.7 against Daish. It states that if a Member State were to be subjected to an armed attack on its territory, the other Member States would be obliged to provide assistance and assistance to that Member State with all the means at their disposal. As has been pointed out here, the Minister of Defence quickly went out and promised substantial military support. We Christian Democrats thought, then as now, that we should have heeded the call for reconnaissance assistance that came from France and also from the United States for the help of JAS 39 Gripen. However, the government did not listen to that. Instead, as we all know, there was limited support. It was 50 – 100 SAC hours with transport flights, i.e. five or six transport flights with C-17. There was a small reinforcement with a few staff officers and one – I say one – Hercules plan in Mali that will not come either during the spring term or the autumn semester of this year but next year, and then also what we are talking about now, the sale of ammunition to France. All in all, Madam President, this is a contribution that is incongruent with the idea of European solidarity. The question within the government seems to have been: what is the least we can give without clearly stating that giving support under Article 42(7) of the EU Treaty applies to others, not us? Solidarity is best shown by shouldering just the efforts and challenges that others face. As you help others, you can expect to be helped. Finally, the Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, have pushed the demand that now becomes an order to the government, a so-called announcement, that the government must immediately decide on the order of the amount and kind of ammunition that is now being sold to France.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-759	Madam President, I would like The theme of today's debate is the Government proposal Follow-up of infectious drugs. Proposals are made to amend the Act on the Register of Recipes, so that the register may contain information about the freedom of movement under the Disease Control Act. This means that outpatient pharmacies should disclose such information to the E-Health Agency. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a provision in the Anti-Contagion Act on which county councils are to reimburse outpatient pharmacies for the costs of anti-infectious medicines. According to the bill, it will be easier for pharmacies to invoice the county councils that will pay for the medicines according to the Disease Control Act. We believe that the proposals contained in the proposal appear to be both natural and sensible as they create a more clear system of invoicing and liability. We are largely in favour of the government's proposal because we believe that disease control work is extremely important, not least given that more and more people are now coming from other countries to Sweden. These people may not always have received the same disease protection in the countries from which they come. That is why we believe that disease control work is, to some extent, more important now than in the past. We have unfortunately seen, among other things, that TB is increasing to a worryingly higher degree than in the past. This means that we are partly facing more new disease-protection challenges than before – challenges that we need to take very seriously One of society's most important tasks is to protect its citizens from the collective dangers of various diseases. This is why we have had a dialogue with infectious diseases doctors around the country and are closely following developments in the field of infectious diseases, both at national and county level. This is an issue on which we have a great deal of focus. Madam President, I would like The Government proposal proposes that persons under 18 years of age, who are covered by the Act on Health Care to certain foreigners who are staying in Sweden without the necessary permits, should also be offered goods covered by the Act on Medical Benefits. We certainly support the Government's proposal but urge the Riksdag to announce to the Government that those who under the Health Care Act to certain foreigners who are staying in Sweden without the necessary permits should not have access to such goods free of charge. In order for Sweden to be able to maintain regulated immigration, we believe that those who have received expulsion decisions or are here without permission should leave the country. Then it is not reasonable for people who are not allowed to be here to receive free medical care and medicines. However, one important principle for us Swedish democrats that we do not compromise is that no one should be denied emergency medical care or medicines because of a lack of ability to pay. It is extremely important to remember and an important principle that we have. Finally, Madam President, we believe that it is important that the proposals in the proposal on anti-infectious medicines do not fall in their entirety, so we choose not to call for rejection of the proposal despite our objections. I commend our reservation.
i-3d66c683e6f2ef7f-768	Madam President, I would like As has already been said, this matter is about getting order in how the free anti-infectious medicines are handled, who pays and who is entitled to them. In addition, it is a matter of ensuring that all children residing in the country are entitled to free medicines and the preferential goods included therein. The Government proposes that the registers of prescriptions held by pharmacies should indicate that a medicine is free of charge because it is covered by the Anti-Contagion Act. It therefore introduces rules in the same law on which county councils are to reimburse a pharmacy for the costs of these medicines. It will also be clearer who is entitled to free medicines linked to this particular law. This section proposes that the rules take effect on 1 October 2016. Madam President, I would like Since 1 January 2016, medicines and other eligible goods included in the pharmaceutical benefit are free of charge for children residing in Sweden. The medicine is simply free, to the great satisfaction of all parents with children who need expensive medicines. The intention is that the same freeness should apply to asylum seekers' children or children residing in Sweden without the necessary permits. This has, for the most part, already been done. What remains is what the government is now proposing, namely that the county councils and regions should also offer children who reside in Sweden without the necessary permits goods such as consumables needed for stomi and those needed to supply the body with a medicine or for self-control of medication – just what applies to all other children. Children's best interests must always be the center of attention. These legislative amendments are proposed to take effect as early as 1 July 2016. In their reservation, the Swedish democrats believe that they can solve the problem of people staying illegally in this country by requiring these families to pay for the children's needs for, for example, stomibags. It only affects the children and in no way solves the basic problem. It must be handled in quite different ways. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
