i-d454521ebce7ebcd-6	Mr President, I would like to It is of course gratifying that the government is proposing a reform of immigration policy that is moving in the right direction rather than in the wrong direction, which has unfortunately been the normal state of affairs. However, I would like to stand out the chin and claim that the majority of voters are rather puzzled that individuals who reside illegally in Sweden are entitled to financial aid at all. Why has this error not been corrected in the past? How did it even arise? I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that staying in the Swedish Empire may be a breach of the law. This is something that can be tried in court and, consequently, also punished, entirely according to the same principles as apply to other types of crime. Worth noting is that my party has not helped to make this particular law. That is something that has been decided in this House by the other parties. Until now, there has been a system in which we reward individuals who violate Swedish law by granting them financial assistance. It doesn't make any sense. I think it is inappropriate for the proposal that is the subject of today's debate to contain exceptions that leave more than half of the group of individuals who would otherwise be affected by the proposal. The Swedish Democrats believe that this derogation should be completely abolished. I'm not saying it's easy. For my part, I find it difficult to make decisions. The exception proposed by the bill concerns individuals who reside illegally in Sweden with children. My whole principle-- it's not just for me, it's for my whole party-- it's that children shouldn't have to be burdened for their parents making bad decisions. Mr President, I would like to We still have to put our foot down somewhere. In fact, what we are talking about are individuals who violate Swedish law by illegally staying in the kingdom. We can't have a system that rewards that kind of behavior. What kind of signals do we send to those people who actually respect government decisions, even if it happens to be a rejection decision? This should, of course, apply without exception. The Swedish democrats also say that if you are an asylum seeker in Sweden, which in turn is a bit strange because you have not passed through just one but rather at least seven so-called safe countries on the way here, you are of course entitled to a roof over your head, to food for the day and the equivalent. In addition, there is no reason whatsoever to be entitled to either daily or special allowances. This system should, of course, be abolished. Mr President, I would like to Let me briefly reflect on the fact that the bill is based on an agreement between the government and the four alliance parties. That's good. I have no comment whatsoever on that procedure. Of course, parties interact with each other as long as they feel that it benefits one's own cause and as long as the mutual will exists. But I still have to ask the question, what are you so afraid of? Let us assume, hypothetically, that I myself or any other representative of my party had been involved in the negotiations leading up to this proposal. What had been the worst case scenario? If I had been in such a negotiation and put forward quite exactly what I am presenting at the moment, and it had been concluded that it was not something that could be reconciled with, then I would have had to leave the negotiation and explain that my party is not behind the agreement that the negotiation led to. But what would have been the best case scenario? Of course we had a deal. Then we might have had a completely united parliament that supports this bill. Believe me! It is an enormous strength towards our clients, that is, the Swedish electorate. The Swedish Democrats are today the third largest party in Parliament. The polls that you all follow more or less slavishly claim that if there were elections today, we would either consolidate our third place, or be the second largest or even perhaps single largest party. We negotiate with each other when we sit on Parliament's various committees. We negotiate in different types of parliamentary committees, and we negotiate in completely different contexts. What exactly are you so afraid of? If we pursue an opinion on which consensus cannot be reached, but then it becomes clear to the voters. It can hardly be seen as a problem. On the contrary, it should be good both for us, for the rest and above all for the voters, who can then pass their judgment in the general elections that are more or less sacred to us. But at least let us make an honest attempt to show some political leadership. Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-20	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to talk about the Left Party's reservation and why the Riksdag should reject the government's budget bill. We can begin by stating that the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats are on diametrically different sides of the government's and bourgeois parties' proposals for supplementary amending budgets. The Swedish Democrats want tougher, more brutal demands, especially against children, while the Left Party today stands up for human dignity and human rights. Few government proposals have been so clearly silenced and hidden away in the debate as this. The government's very short message was sent out only hours after the terrorist attacks on Brussels airport and metro. Unlike in the past on migration issues, the big drum was not hit, called for a press conference and told us the excellent thing in this proposal. I think that is basically because you are ashamed, especially if you are an environmental party. The government has moved from humanity and family reunification to the creation of an alliance with the baton right, while the racists are cheering off. From an economic point of view, this is unlikely to lead to long-term savings. Of course, it may be that the state saves 200 million this year and 400 million coming years, but the risk is that those who have received expulsion decisions instead deviate and show up as homeless or undocumented in our municipalities and county councils. This means that costs are passed on by the state to municipalities and county councils. Some who have made sure to give people on the run a dignified welcome to Sweden, and who have made fantastic efforts and continue to do so, are the non-profit forces. The non-profit forces have also drawn a very heavy load when authorities and municipalities have not lived up to their responsibilities. This decision runs the risk of increasing the burden on these non-profit-making forces and organisations. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's statistics, about 10,000 people are still in the reception system, although they have received a decision on expulsion or expulsion. Some 4,900 of them are adults who do not live with children under the age of 18. Of these, 1,900 remain at the Finnish Immigration Service's housing facilities. The Left Party believes that those who have been refused their asylum application must respect the decision. Rejection and expulsion decisions shall be followed. Decisions must also be taken on legal certainty and on the correct grounds. Withdrawing aid for those who do not comply with this decision can be considered reasonable at first sight. But will the proposal have the effect sought by the government? I don't think so. The choice between following a expulsion decision is the choice between returning to the place from which you have fled or staying in the place to which you have fled. Even in cases where there is no basis for asylum, people flee from terrible and uncertain conditions. To think that the suspension of aid would be enough to bring these people back, I think, is naive. It is likely that it will only have the effect of making the situation even more difficult for people who are already very vulnerable. The Left Party believes that there are other ways of increasing the enforcement rate in expulsion decisions. The focus should be on effective return while maintaining legal certainty and human dignity, not on repressive measures. If the return feels safe, there is a certainty that it will go well. In the Red Cross's long-standing work on these issues, it has been clear that instead, positive incentives increase the desire for voluntary return. It highlights proposals such as re-establishment support for more nationalities, needs-oriented counselling following both rejection of asylum applications and return, and targeted support actions for particularly vulnerable groups, such as violent women and persons with disabilities. With the end of aid, a natural contact point between the person who has received an expulsion decision and the migration authorities will also end. This makes contact more difficult and is likely to make it more difficult to enforce the expulsion decision. The proposal becomes counterproductive; it makes it difficult to achieve what it wants to achieve. I also object to the division of people that the migration agreement between the government and the bourgeois parties creates. A huge difference is made between the 19-year-old who has fled, whose parents and siblings died in the Mediterranean Sea, and a family who managed to make the smooth journey. What they are trying to claim is humanity against families with children. But, in my opinion, it is nothing more than a disgusting division of people on very legally insecure grounds, as we know how doubtful age determinations are – in this case whether to have the right to assistance even after a expulsion decision. The Left Party is a clear opposition party, but we are working with the government on the budget for Sweden to be managed. We are doing this in order to bring about important reforms and efforts towards universal well-being for all. For example, we recently received 10 billion to the welfare of municipalities and county councils. This supplementary amending budget is part of the migration agreement – Mig-DÖ, as I would call it – between the government and the bourgeois parties. Therefore, the Left Party cannot support this part of the budget. The government was therefore obliged to submit an additional amending budget to support its reprehensible policy. That is why I would like to support Amendment No 2 by the Left Party and reject the proposal.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-35	Mr President, I would like to Last year, the troubled world situation contributed to large influxes of refugees entering Europe. In the EU, Sweden was the country that received the highest number of asylum seekers per capita. Approximately 163 000 people, 35 000 of whom unaccompanied minors, came here. Of course, this is not sustainable development. Of course, stopping wars and resolving conflicts, so that people do not have to flee, is the most important measure to improve the situation of millions of people around the world. However, in the absence of such solutions, it would have been necessary for Europe and the EU Member States to have taken greater joint responsibility for the refugee disaster. It is clear to all of us that the Union has not taken up this challenge. The very slow implementation of the redistributive mechanism in the EU is just one example of this. In light of the EU's inability to respond to the refugee crisis, we in Sweden have introduced border controls and ID controls. Sweden's asylum legislation is aligned with the EU minimum level. The policy aims to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden and that more people will apply for asylum in other EU countries. The government is also closely monitoring the development of sustainable and orderly reception, for in Sweden we will have regulated immigration. It is part of the Swedish model.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-38	In the short term, the proposal means that the right to assistance, primarily food and shelter, for adult asylum seekers without children will end earlier than today. As things stand, the right only expires when the asylum seeker is granted a residence permit or leaves the country. The change now proposed therefore means that the right will expire when the deadline for voluntary return or expulsion decisions expires or when the decision becomes final. This is a reasonable, well-motivated and balanced tightening of the regulatory framework. There is today a great pressure and a need to reduce the pressure on the reception system. Therefore, there is a need to increase incentives for those who have received a negative decision on their asylum application to leave the country. Therefore, it is also reasonable to bring forward the date on which the right to assistance ceases. If you have been refused your application, you must leave the country and not burden different systems. On the other hand, if you are granted a residence permit, society must put in place all the measures needed to get you to work and support yourself as quickly as possible. So we give new arrivals a real chance to realize their life dreams, and so we also maintain order and regulated immigration. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-42	Mr President, I would like to We will now consider the annual report on the Riksbank's administration. I would like to start by endorsing the proposal in the report and rejecting all the motions from the general period of exercise discussed in the report.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-43	The Riksbank's profit for 2015 was SEK 1.9 billion, which is a decrease of SEK 1.3 billion compared to 2014. This can mainly be explained by the fact that the currencies in the reserve on average weakened in relation to the Swedish krona. The Riksbank continues to assess that the results over the next five years will be significantly lower than the previous five years regardless of whether interest rates remain low or rising. If the latter occurs, the Riksbank may suffer losses in the short term, which means that the Bank's ability to pay dividends to the State will be made more difficult. Against this background, the Committee emphasises that it is good that the Riksbank continues to analyse the possible performance in the coming years given the effects that the development of exchange rates and international interest rates may have on the Riksbank's assets. Nevertheless, the Riksbank will deliver SEK 2.8 billion to the state budget through the proposal in the report, which should be noted is more than the profit made by the bank in 2015. The background to this is that the dividend is based on a determined calculation model that calculates an average of earnings a number of years back. Mr President, I would like to In the monetary policy area, the Riksbank has conducted an extremely expansionary line in 2015 to support the positive development of the Swedish economy and to support the rise in inflation. The repo rate was gradually reduced from 0 per cent at the beginning of the year to − 0.35 per cent at the end of the year. In addition, the Riksbank has purchased Swedish nominal government bonds for SEK 135 billion. The forecast for when the repo rate will start to rise has been moved from mid-2016 to early 2017. Regarding the Riksbank's responsibility for a secure and efficient payment system, the Riksbank estimates that the Swedish financial system is mainly functioning well, but that there is vulnerability in the structure and risks of the banking system linked to the low interest rate situation and household indebtedness. The Bank has for a long time pointed to the need for measures to strengthen macroprudential supervision, such as an amortisation requirement – which is now also becoming a reality. Mr President, I would like to The Riksbank continued its international commitment to strengthen the financial system through, among other things, the work of the Basel Committee, the Financial Stability Board, FSB, and Bank for International Settlements, BIS. The work in the IMF continued to focus on developing Sweden's position on policy issues before the IMF Executive Board together with the Ministry of Finance. It is worth noting that, unlike what it sounded like when we discussed this last year, the US Congress has now adopted the proposal to reform the voting forces within the IMF in favour of developing countries. It is a reform that Sweden has been pushing for for many years and which we naturally welcome. Mr President, I would like to In September, the Riksbank signed a swap agreement of six months with the Ukrainian Central Bank, which covers the purchase and sale of a maximum of USD 500 million against the Ukrainian currency. It is worth noting that the Executive Board did not agree on this decision. This question is also one of several reasons why, after many years of current legislation, it seems urgent to review the Riksbank Act. Mr President, I would like to At the end of the year, the Riksbank's financial assets were worth SEK 661.9 billion, while the liabilities were valued at SEK 483.9 billion. On the asset side, the gold and currency reserves represent 74%. The return was − 7 billion of which the foreign exchange reserve accounted for − 6.8 billion due to an average weakening of the currencies against the krona. Mr President, I would like to The committee believes that the production and supply of cash in Sweden is working well and that there is no reason today to change the procurement of notes and coins. The committee also considers that it is not currently appropriate to consider whether Sweden should join EMU. In conclusion, the committee does not believe that there is any reason to take home the gold reserve or to carry out further inspections in the four central banks of the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States and Switzerland where the gold is stored. Mr President, I would like to We have all been able to note by now that during the year we have had new twenties, fifties, two hundred and thousand. The first stage of the Riksbank's exchange of banknotes and coins is thus completed. Finally, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that in June we will have the opportunity to carry out a deeper analysis of the Riksbank's activities based on the evaluation made by the international evaluators Goodfriend and King.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-58	Mr President, I would like to I will talk about an individual motion which I have raised and which we have not really discussed in Parliament. When I see the report, I realise that perhaps I should have emphasised that it would be allocated to the Committee on Defence. Like the committee, I am not concerned about the supply of banknotes. The Riksbank has stocks, and the company that manufactures them has competence. My concern is more security policy. I think most people in this House think it would be wrong to outsource the defense to a family-owned American company. Isn't defence of the knowledge of how we make our banknotes at least as important as defence of the country? We know many examples in history when countries have attacked other countries and tried to destabilise them by falsifying their money and creating a loss of confidence in their economy. It is strange that we have an agreement with a country and a family business that we completely lack control over and have limited transparency in. It is a country that does not give citizens to us if they commit crimes. If the company has a dishonest employee, we have no control to protect our financial interests, but we have to trust that another country's judicial system will handle it for us. Moreover, we find it difficult to carry out background checks and ensure that honest people work in this company because they work in another country. We also have no control over whether this company is being resold. What happens if the family gets tired and wants to sell the company to the Chinese state or to a venture capitalist in a tax haven? Would we really appreciate it? Do we really want our currency to be printed by rogue individuals or at least not in control of it and have to wait until the next procurement to cancel such a contract? I realise that this may be more appropriate in the Committee on Defence and that this is why my motion has not been properly dealt with in the report. The concern I raise is not the one to which the report responds. I fully share the assessment of the Committee on Finance that there is no danger that the money will run out in Sweden. I am concerned that there is too much money that we do not have control of and that is being pushed in secret or that knowledge is being sold to rogue individuals who need money temporarily or are criminal a. Therefore, it is entirely reasonable that we take the small extra cost and the small problem of buying in the right skills to manufacture our notes and coins and that the Riksbank regains control of this. Yeah, it probably costs a little bit more. Yes, they need to buy in external skills to get the world's best and safest notes and coins. It is a small price to pay to gain control of the currency that we in Parliament are all willing to defend with hundreds of billions when it is in crisis. Should we not be willing to defend our physical notes and coins with a few million or perhaps up to 100 million? It's worth it, I think. I'll have to exercise again next year, and then we'll see what the Committee on Defence says. Maybe I'll have better luck then. So I am talking about my own proposal, my individual motion, but I hope that next year the Parliament will consider it a good opinion.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-68	Mr President, I would like to I think I will refrain from commenting on Carl Schlyter. Although I'd like to, I don't think my time is enough for that. I look forward to a debate on this issue at a later date. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. As has been said here before, this means that we grant discharge, determine the balance sheet and profit and loss account, and support the proposal for a distribution of profits. The Moderates have no reservation, but I would nevertheless like to highlight two reflections from the report. The first is about what Ingela Nylund Watz was talking about, namely that the committee thinks it is good to continue to analyse the performance development for the Riksbank. We have known for a long time that it has and will deteriorate significantly. This is mainly due to the fact that the return is very low due to the low interest rate situation. It can be thought that the interest rate situation will soon change and that it will then be better when the interest rate rises, but the problem is that it will get even worse if the interest rate rises. The reason is that the losses on the securities are significantly higher. In fact, there may be significant losses for the Riksbank if interest rates rise. Nevertheless, the Riksbank considers the equity capital to be fully sufficient for decided monetary policy measures and also to take further measures. This brings me to my second reflection, that is, monetary policy. As the committee has stated, and as Mrs Ingela Nylund said earlier, the committee considers that the Riksbank has conducted an extremely expansionary monetary policy. We will come back in committee to the issue of monetary policy and how it has been conducted, partly through the annual monetary policy evaluation, and partly through the external evaluation carried out by Mervyn King and Marvin Goodfriend. Until then, however, I would like to highlight the fact that interest rates have been reduced. Mrs Ingela Nylund also mentioned this. It has been reduced from 0%, and so we have negative interest rates. It has been reduced from 0 to − 0.35. In addition, they have purchased government bonds worth 135 billion and announced further purchases. The forecast date for raising the interest rate has been moved forward. It should be borne in mind that this is happening in an environment where massive incentives have taken place from many dominant central banks. I think that many people would call this a monetary policy experiment, especially given that the central banks have actually taken measures that are not normally part of their day-to-day operations. In this context, one must therefore ask: How independent is the Riksbank? Can it act independently in relation to what is happening in its surrounding world, i.e. how dependent is it on which monetary policy is conducted internationally? The Riksbank itself says that monetary policy incentives aim to stimulate and support Swedish growth and boost inflation. We find ourselves in a unique situation, not least for Swedish people. We currently have growth of the order of 4%, and we have high capacity utilisation, falling unemployment and negative interest rates. Nevertheless, inflation is very low. You have to say that this is a unique situation, to say the least. The massive monetary stimulus that is taking place has meant that we have maintained a stable and even slightly declining exchange rate, and this in turn has meant that we have strengthened the export capacity of the export industry. We have also seen the result of this. That is part of the fact that we have as high growth as we have, so in that sense monetary policy has worked. In addition, the incentives have strengthened consumption, which we also see producing results. In addition to this, we have had massive incentives from the Migration Agency, that is, the massive immigration and migration we have had in the country has cost quite a lot of money. But that money goes straight into the economy, as the people who come here also need consumption. At present, therefore, we have incentives of the order of 50 billion fiscally, in addition to the monetary policy stimulus, which goes straight into the economy. This, of course, is not a problem, provided that we manage integration later. I believe that Sweden has benefited and benefited from growing in every sense, including in terms of the number of citizens. I believe that part of the Swedish economy has gone so well in recent years is that we have become more numerous. But this presupposes, as I said, that the reform process can be carried out. All I am saying is that these are additional incentives in addition to monetary policy incentives. My first question goes to the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Carl Schlyter has now left the Chamber and may not be able to reply, but I still have to ask the question: does it consider it right to stimulate an additional 10 billion in this environment, in addition to the incentives that are already taking place, especially in view of the inability to implement the necessary reforms? We have high trust in our institutions in Sweden. We have, as it were, a high level of technocratic trust. By the way, this applies not only to the national arena, but also to external assessors, such as the IMF and the OECD. They have pointed out the necessary reforms that Sweden must implement in order to avoid future problems and that the Swedish economy is affected. This brings me to my second question to the Social Democrats: do you see a need for a better functioning interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy? I wonder what the Social Democrats think about this. I have no answers myself, but I would like to have a discussion on these issues. How could we in Parliament better examine the interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy and make it work better? We cannot have a system in which one handles things independently without taking responsibility for and consideration of the other. That is my firm opinion. I would like to start a discussion on this issue. I have a brief comment on the issue raised by Mrs Ingela Nylund Watz concerning the revision of the Riksbank Act. In fact, it was we who initiated such a process. The reason why we are going to do that is in Mervyn King's and Marvin Goodfriend's external evaluation, but we could have come to that anyway given the exceptional situation we are in. In this context, the Ukraine loan is included. I just want to say that I do not want to question the Riksbank's commitment to its participation and its work with the IMF. I think it is good and something that benefits the Swedish economy and export opportunities but also the growth and opportunities to distribute wealth in a global perspective. However, there is perhaps reason to review the possibility for the Riksbank from a constitutional perspective, i.e. what opportunities and rights the Riksbank should have to determine that commitment for itself. I'm sure there's a reason to look into it. I therefore look forward to discussing the Riksbank Act later, but until then I hope that we will be able to have a discussion on the issues that I raised today with the Social Democrats.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-89	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased, Jörgen Andersson, that we agree in principle on everything in the report. But I think it is a little strange that you are trying to launch a budgetary debate in connection with perhaps one of the most formal matters we have to deal with, even if the issues are interesting. To answer your two specific questions: You first wonder if we think it is right to stimulate the municipal economy with another SEK 10 billion. The answer to that question is very simple: Yes, we think so. There is an incredible amount that needs to be done in Swedish welfare, not least in a situation where municipalities in many parts of the country have had a lot of trouble getting their economies together for a number of years. Then it is extremely important now to ensure that municipalities are given the opportunity to make further staff reinforcements that enable us to ensure better care for the elderly, to reinforce efforts at school and to take further steps to get more people into adult education or what measures this might be about. We believe that, in turn, it will help to increase employment quite considerably with several tens of thousands of people in the coming years. It is good for the Swedish economy and Swedish tax revenues. The answer is therefore undoubtedly: yes, it is quite right in this economic environment too to provide opportunities for municipalities to pursue an active welfare policy. When it comes to the question of the interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy: we will return to that. It is also a good thing to say that we are in favour of a continuous discussion on this, Jörgen Andersson and I, within the framework of a working group in the Committee on Finance.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-94	Mr President, I would like to Mr Nylund does not see the interaction between monetary policy and fiscal policy, and I am very concerned about that. Even if the words say that you want to develop the review and really make the interaction work, you still do not see the problems. I would say that there are more practical problems. Although Ingela Nylund Watz advocates incentives to the municipalities, she will not get access to the needs that exist. There are no teachers to find. There is no social security secretary. There are no people at Arbetsförmedlingen. There are no people to find at Försäkringskassan. There are no nurses, and there are no nurses. The problem is that it sends 10 billion into thin air without having the reforms. Reforms are needed in order to organise the skills training and skills-enhancing measures needed to provide the necessary support. There is a risk that the money will end up in an empty hole where it will not do at all the benefit that Ingela Nylund Watz is asking for, so that the welfare system will work better. My criticism is not only directed at stimulating the municipalities, but at stimulating the municipalities without thinking that the money is useful in the right place. After all, the reforms need to be made so that you can benefit from your incentives. Just to conclude with your opening comment: I think it is nice that we can have a small budget policy debate if we cannot find any conflicts elsewhere.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-99	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jörgen Andersson, for acknowledging that it was a constructed budget debate! But anyway, I guess I'll give you a line like this at the end. If you do not believe that municipalities see their own needs and have knowledge of how they could solve complex situations when there is a lack of well-being with this extra money, then you have kind of given up. But it has never been the strong branch of the Moderates to believe that the municipal representatives can solve the problems they see in their own municipality. We have a completely different vision. We have delivered hundreds of proposals in welfare areas with competence development, skills upgrades, additional initiatives in adult education and school initiatives. With the additional 10 billion, there is, of course, far more opportunity for municipalities to cope with the welfare mission than if they had not received 10 billion. Jörgen Andersson must be able to admit that. When it comes to whether it is good or bad with these 10 billion, I think Jörgen Andersson and I will actually have to wait and see how the reality comes out when there are more teachers, when there are more nurses and when there are more staff in the home service. Then I guess reality will decide if Jörgen Andersson or I are right. Of course, when it comes to the broader question of the interaction between monetary policy and fiscal policy, the last word is not said. We have every reason to think about this and will do so in the coming months. I am also absolutely sure that in the investigation that we agree that we should do if the Sveriges Riksbank Act will be a central issue.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-104	Mr President, I would like to I find it a little symptomatic that Ingela Nylund Watz is completely stuck in her investment of 10 billion to the municipalities. I am absolutely convinced that the municipalities see their needs – fully convinced. In addition, many municipalities have testified and said: We know exactly what we need, but we will not be helped by getting a lot of money, because we need other things– need access to nurses, teachers and so on. But to leave that debate a little – it's just a spinoff on what we really should be discussing: I'm concerned that Ingela Nylund Watz is not concerned at all about the extreme and massive stimulus we have in the Swedish economy today. We have fiscal incentives that do not take into account the already massive monetary stimulus. Do not the Social Democrats at all see any problems with imbalances building up in the Swedish economy? Is there no concern that we overstimulate asset values so that we get the risk of bubbles in our economy? How are we going to deal with this when we get to a recession? If we have such high stimulations today, how will it be handled then? We build deficits in the Swedish economy by continuing to stimulate the budget, without taking in any long-term and sustainable economic thinking by saving in the barns when we have a good economy to manage when we get a worse economy. I think it's troubling.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-108	Mr President, I would like to Now we are going to debate the proposal for interim decisions in the review of procurement contracts. It's a tricky name. What is at issue here is the possibility for a court to stop a procurement decision when someone has requested a judicial review of it. The background to the bill is the situation that the Migration Agency ended up in during the autumn, when a large number of places for temporary asylum accommodation were needed in a very short time. The places were directly procured but were empty because the courts ordered inhibition, i.e. that the procurement should be stopped pending a judicial review. The Finnish Immigration Service then found it very difficult to provide both shelter and food to asylum seekers who came to Sweden. We share the Government's concern that this situation ended up, and the halted procurements made it significantly more difficult for the Migration Agency in their already hard-pressed work. We must not end up there again. Refugees who come here will be able to get a roof over their heads. Not least when the roofs are just waiting for them. In view of this very special situation, we support the proposal, but we propose in a reservation that the legislation be evaluated within two years at the latest. There are a number of questions that are not answered in the Government proposal. What the government intends to do with the amendment is to clarify a legal position that is already in force. It is believed that the public interest should be taken into account in the decision on a procurement procedure should be stopped. It is believed that this is already the case today, but that it is not clear enough from Swedish legislation when compared with the directives on which the legislation is based. The hope with the clarification is that the authorities will be better at arguing also for the public interest, so that the courts will have a better basis. It is hoped that this in turn will lead to fewer contracts being stopped. The amendment does not fundamentally seek to change the legal situation, but rather to instruct contracting authorities in their way of arguing before the Court. It's, to say the least, special. Against this background, heavy procurement bodies, such as the Law Council, the Procurement Authority and the Competition Authority, have also questioned the need for the amendment of the law. Consultations such as the Swedish Competition Authority, the Swedish Procurement Authority, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Kammarkollegiet and Företagarna – to name a few – have strongly criticised the government's impact assessment. For example, they wonder how the changes can affect companies' access to justice in other areas as well. The risk is that you will have greater and more fundamental changes than you actually had in mind. This should have been better illustrated. We do not want to create more problems than we solve, and the rule of law must remain. It is for these reasons that we think it is very important for the law to be evaluated within a relatively short time. This is also something that the Swedish Agency for Growth, for example, is asking for. In our reservation, we also highlight the possibility for the authorities to invoke extreme urgency and conclude agreements directly. In the situation in which we were in the autumn, no one would probably question a claim that the Migration Agency needed access to asylum accommodation very quickly. This would thus have been an opportunity also within the existing regulatory framework. Mr President, I would like to In the field of procurement, I think I can almost see a new trend that is a bit worrying. It is noted that there is a problem which is essentially due to the fact that contracting authorities are not making sufficient use of the existing regulatory framework. But instead of remedying this and working to increase the competence of the authorities, the law is changed. At worst, we will then have a regulatory framework that is even more difficult to apply. We must pay close attention to this. We see such tendencies in the bill that we are discussing today, and we see them quite clearly in the government's work on requirements under collection contracts in procurement. Instead of stating that the authorities need to be better at making use of the far-reaching opportunities that already exist to make social demands, they want to define the requirements for them, and they then take their starting point in collective agreements. This only makes the regulations even more difficult, and it only becomes more difficult for the municipalities, county councils and authorities that sit around the country to apply the regulations. And not to mention how difficult it is for entrepreneurs – big and small – to submit tenders. It would be more labor-intensive, but much more long-term, to work with skill increases instead of making detailed teams. In addition, too detailed legislation risks locking us up too much and leaving no room for application of the law. We need a government that not only asks Parliament for new legislation as soon as it encounters a problem, but that actually has the power to work with management and governance in the public sector. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-122	Mr President, I would like to This whole bill is in a frightening way symptomatic of this government and its actions. It notes one fact, namely that the entire reception of asylum has completely collapsed and that the responsible authority – the Migration Agency – is in no way capable of solving its tasks. Of course, it is not so clear, but everyone who lives out in reality knows that this is the case. What, then, is the answer? Is it reducing volume inflows to normal European levels and calling for a moratorium to find a solution to the situation that has been pushed for and created by conscious political decisions, by the Western world's most undemanding immigration and asylum reception regulations? No, you don't. The problem that has been identified, and which has thus arisen as a result of the western world's most irresponsible policy, is that the law on public procurement is wrong. In fact, it is believed that when the Migration Agency makes a procurement, in order to bring about another one in the series of newly opened asylum accommodations, a problem arises because a public procurement authority has a number of regulations to follow. It is believed that the Migration Agency should not really comply with the rules, because as soon as possible you have to open as many new accommodations as possible. An important pillar of the Public Procurement Act, the so-called review procedure, is to be removed in principle. But basically there is a review for both the supplier and the authority. There is therefore a reasonable risk of abolishing it. However, you are willing to accept this – for the greater good, that is, continued mass immigration to Sweden, cost whatever it wants. It is both interesting and frightening at the same time how the Migration Agency has developed into some kind of super-authority that dictates the terms for the rest of us. What does it really say in the government's 1st chapter? Section 1? Does it say: All public power in Sweden is based on the Migration Agency, or? No, it doesn't. But when the Migration Agency requests a 10-billion-dollar resource supplement or even the 100-billion-grade, as it is most recently, there is suddenly money. Or when, as in this case, you ask for the law to be changed, then the responsible minister is there more ready than a scout. The Swedish Competition Authority, the Swedish Procurement Authority, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Kammarkollegiet, the Competition Commission, the Entrepreneurs, the Swedish Bar Association and even the Swedish Law Council. They point out, among other things, that the proposal is risky and too far-reaching, and that it risks leading to significant changes in principle and practice in the review process and thus in the application of the LOU. Of course, the government should instead take strong measures to significantly reduce the volume inflow to Sweden. Even if one were to achieve the migration agency's lowest scenario for 2016, one would not even be close to sufficiently low volumes. And by low enough, I mean that we can start solving problems instead of year by year adding to them. Moreover, in essence, the entire reception system should be entirely state-owned. The state should have its own emergency preparedness in its own direction if a larger number of people suddenly come to Sweden, really all from wherever they come from. War and similar misery have certainly not hit our own neighbourhood for the last 70 years, but natural disasters, forest fires and such things can happen here too. If nothing else, we should have a crisis preparedness for things that we can't overview. In such cases, this will mean a complete halt to the municipalisation and privatisation of the entire billion-dollar industry that has emerged in the light of the reception of new arrivals. Not least, the private interest in profit – or the private usury, as I prefer to call it – should be removed. It's neither decent nor dignified. Finally, I think it is symptomatic for this government to want to speed up the opening of new asylum homes by referring to the so-called public interest. This suggests an almost grotesque perception of the public interest in the substance of the matter. Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation. I would also like to inform and draw the President and the House's attention to the fact that, in the event that the reservation of the Swedish Democrats falls, we intend to put our votes to reservation 1.
i-161NgB6GJC1YQttdfKa3ZX	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in report 29. The report contains proposals for legislative amendments to facilitate the implementation of fast-track procurements. The proposal has been brought about by the current refugee situation. The aim is to clarify the provisions on interim decisions in the review of a contract and the validity of a contract by pointing out that the interests of users, the general interest and the other interests concerned are to be taken into account in the compensation to be made by the Court of Justice. ..................................................... Last autumn 3 000 new arrivals could not be used because of constant appeals. It's a waste, it's inhuman and it's stupid. The courts have taken the interim decisions without first giving the Migration Board the opportunity to give its opinion. All in all, it has led to hundreds of processes. Mr President, I would like to In addition to migration, the same problems also exist in other areas, such as the procurement of food for the elderly and in the health sector. Appeals to delay and delay have become an expensive and very unnecessary social problem. There is a great need to clarify that the public interest must be taken into account in the compensation of damages to be carried out in the case of interim trials, regardless of the type of contract or procedure involved. These changes will thus also make it easier for municipalities. The improved rules should also be seen in a wider context where public procurement should be used in a more efficient, secure and better way in the future. We will ensure that rogue companies that exploit workers and have only short-term profit interests will not win bids. Tax revenue shall not be used for dumping wages. Here, too, we will safeguard the Swedish model. The government is now working to develop a national procurement strategy. We set targets for public procurement. We need to improve follow-up so that the requirements are also met by suppliers. Here, the Procurement Authority, which is an independent authority with only the task of providing support to contracting authorities, municipalities, county councils, regions and suppliers, will support and enhance competence. Then together we can improve the quality of public procurement and improve the methods of follow-up. Here we see very good collaboration between many municipalities. Now the state goes in and provides support to these municipalities. I am sure that it will have an impact in future procurements. This debate and this report are, as I said, about the delay and waste of the autumn with empty accommodations that could not be used because of all appeals and interim decisions. The report deals with changing rules for the review of public procurement. We are making the review of public procurement more effective. The aim is to give the right room for manoeuvre to contracting authorities and suppliers. Mr President, I would like to We are broadly in agreement on this issue. We will evaluate this reform. We're not setting an exact date, as the Moderates want. But, of course, we will follow the matter very closely. SD's against is no wonder at all. They do not want to make things easier and to get things right in the current refugee situation. As usual, they want to create chaos in order to grow ground for their murky beliefs. Mr President, I would like to As I said, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-144	Mr President, I would like to Today, every 20 Swedish people are directly involved in higher education, either as an employee or as a student. In fact, higher education is one of Sweden's largest sectors of society and comprises more than half a million individuals and a cost of around SEK 65 billion per year. These are incredibly high figures. It is therefore also important that education is of high quality. It should also be effective and, in addition to contributing to an educational perspective, it should be useful in the labour market and facilitate matching. A remarkable phenomenon with regard to higher education in Sweden is that although it is extensive and important, it is extremely poorly researched. The Swedish Research Council, VR, last year presented a study on this. It shows that the dissertations made mainly focus on the teaching and student perspective, while theses on quality, management issues and knowledge of research issues are not studied to any great extent. This is something that separates us from other countries. In the report, the researchers also identify important research areas. These are new technologies and new forms of teaching, such as the introduction of, for example, MOOC and flexible learning. How will this affect education? How does it affect management and organization? And what consequences can this have for recruitment and mobility among both students and teachers? Another issue that the Swedish Research Council points out is that there must be more research on quality work. Among other things, they think of peer review but also quality assurance. They also highlight what defines quality. It's a question we often have with us. How should it be measured, and what effects do the results have? A third point highlighted by the Swedish Research Council is that they want more focus on the link between research and education. They want to boost doctoral education in itself, but also management and management of higher education. It is interesting in this context that the Education Committee's follow-up study on the introduction of autonomy and the previous quality reform concerns two of the areas that researchers consider to be important to pay attention to. We Moderates have focused on, among other things, those issues. Quality and the quality evaluation system have been discussed here in the Riksdag before. But I cannot help but mention the hollow rhetoric that the government is engaged in. They say they want to strengthen higher education. It increases the number of training places and at the same time withdraws the 300 million SEK that the quality work received through the Alliance and actually also by the current government. It does not form a logical chain. In addition, the Minister for Higher Education sometimes suggests that the fees for students outside the EEA should be reviewed. Doing so in view of the fact that charges are to be removed again would further reduce the resources available for quality. But perhaps we can get some clarification about that during today's debate. The Moderates also lift leadership in their exercise. This is important because in a globalised and changing world there are great demands for strategic leadership. It is not least as important in universities and colleges. Several studies show that well-functioning and academic leadership is of great importance for the scientific quality of education and research to be high. Another fact that demonstrates the importance of strategic leadership is that many of the proposals that are rife in the discussions on higher education and research could in fact already be implemented by universities themselves. Examples include encouraging increased mobility – i.e. transfers of employees – between universities, that experience from working life should be meritorious, introducing sabbaticals or rewarding pedagogical skills. It has a mandate to do this itself. Nevertheless, these issues have been repeated for several years in all sorts of discussions, but nothing happens. A further issue raised by the Moderates, which VR's report also draws attention to, is the use of new technologies and the impact this can have on teaching and recruitment. Online education, flexible learning and so-called MOOC are already offered by some of our universities. It is good because different students' living conditions and learning profile can thus be better met. However, in order to simplify the situation for students, it would be good if this type of digital learning platform were to be more coordinated than is currently the case and also that good examples were disseminated. With regard to the use of modern technology, it is particularly worrying that it is in principle non-existent in many educations, not least in the field of humsam. We Moderates therefore believe that higher education institutions should review the conditions for adapting more educations to modern technology. This is an extremely important issue, not least when we talk about teacher training. Of course, teachers must be used already from education to act as leaders in a classroom where there are digital tools. That is not the situation today, which is extremely surprising. Just as chemistry students need their labs, teachers need a classroom lab with modern technology. So a few words about lifelong learning, which among other things was highlighted in a debate article in today's Svenska Dagbladet. This is a question of whether has been lifted for several decades. For many it feels like a so-called buzzword in society, but today this is a reality. In today's society, an individual's employment may change several times during his/her working life. This means that the opportunity for training must not end when you have got your first, second or third job or when you have closed the education door. We need to provide security for those who want to take the next step in the labour market, so that it is attractive for more people to study higher up the age bracket. The statistics show today that half of those studying independent courses study at a distance and that distance education is particularly common among people with a previous degree. This is why it is a worrying trend if the proportion of independent courses is falling, as we can see today. However, higher education institutions must also stay up-to-date and keep up-to-date in this area. But not only is there something to study, but it is also a matter of having economically reasonable opportunities to study. We Moderates have therefore proposed to raise the limit for granting study funding so that more people can study further up the age range. Our proposal to increase the amount of the release would also be an important step in this regard. Mr President, I would like to Finally, a few words about teacher training. Only the other day, new statistics from the Swedish Council for Higher Education showed that the number of applicants for teacher education remains virtually the same. This is extremely alarming given the great need – I see that many young people are sitting in the gallery. Teacher education is a career for the future, and I hope there are more of you taking note. Also alarming is the recent report published by the UKÄ, which shows that many drop out of teacher training. The statistics show, for example, that out of two students who start the subject teacher training, only one completes it and is examined. It is therefore important to see the whole and not be led to believe that the number admitted to an education is tantamount to an equal number of people completing their education. Students need more support during the education, and higher education institutions need to be more able to meet students' needs during the education. The Alliance's proposal for more ways into the teaching profession is therefore extremely important to support, but the government parties together with the Swedish Democrats say no. Similarly, given the current situation, we need to review the content of teacher training. Of course, it is a matter for the higher education institutions themselves, but given that there are so many newcomers with foreign background in our schools, we need to better equip tomorrow's teachers to help all students integrate and absorb knowledge in a better way. We therefore propose that teachers be equipped with a second language perspective and acquire competence within Swedish as a second language directly in their teacher training. This is something that both teachers' unions and student organisations welcome. Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Moderates support all their reservations, but for time to come, I only support reservations 25 and 29.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-164	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 9 and 34, but I am in the usual order behind our other reservations. I was going to give a theme-quality speech instead of one-sided quantity. Betty Malmberg was into it, although I have a slightly different angle to the question. If the debate on education policy has been followed for a long time, it gives the impression that the focus has often been on quantity rather than quality. I think we have achieved all the quantity targets that might be possible. According to SCB, 1.3 million Swedes have at least three years of tertiary education, a figure that has risen year-on-year. As far as the quantity targets are concerned, we have succeeded, and that is a good thing. But now it's time to focus on quality. Having said that, I noted, not without some dismay, that in its spring change budget, the government has reduced the funding for quality-enhancing efforts by SEK 300 million. Now not all the efforts under this appropriation were quality-enhancing in the true sense of the word, but still. That was still the wrong way to go, wasn't it? At the same time, with a focus on quality, we must also accept that all young people do not need or want to attend theoretical higher education – with the risk then of sounding like Björklund. Let the theoretical students study theoretical courses of high quality. Let them, with practical hands and interest, train for this very thing. We must also realise that those who do not have a theoretical university education can sign out a good salary and live as good lives as academics can. A construction worker can earn as much as many socionomists. A dock worker – hears and astounds – can serve as much as a Member of Parliament, but it feels that the border is still reached. It is a waste of society's resources to force future construction workers to study theoretical courses at university level. We do not require a professor of gender science to be able to nail a panel, so why the opposite? Mr President, I would like to When it comes to non-theoretical education, we believe a lot in universities of applied sciences. They have succeeded extremely well with their matching with the world of work, and up to 90 per cent have post-graduate work. However, there is also potential for improvement for universities of applied sciences according to the Swedish National Audit Office, but I do not go into this. We invest SEK 210 million extra in universities of applied sciences, because we think it is a very good business and that it is also socially profitable. Now the government is deducting the grant by 33 1⁄2 million SEK in its amending proposal, and then we suddenly invest 243 1⁄2 million SEK more than the government. The government's reduction in the grant to the university of applied sciences was still the wrong way to go? An important measure to improve the quality of higher education is, we believe, to place higher demands on cooperation with the surrounding society and, above all, the business world. We know that there is already a writing in the Higher Education Act on this very subject, but we believe that greater pressure must be put on higher education institutions to put another shift in this area. We do not have a complete proposal yet, but we believe that we need to find a model to adjust the financing systems in order to increase interaction with the business world. By the way, we already have a proposal there. There is an interesting project in Lund about cooperation. Betty Malmberg and Thomas Strand presented it a year ago at a lunch seminar, where I think there were really interesting ideas. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the Strand and Malmberg radar couple, who have arranged a long series of very interesting seminars on this subject. Several Members of this House look amused. It's good for merriment! We believe that the financing system needs to be adjusted so that quality is more rewarded than quantity. We will come back with sharp proposals on this, as we believe that an adjustment that more rewards quality must be carried out in the long term. Mr President, I would like to We believe that in the future we must have entrance tests for many training courses to ensure that those who start an education really manage it. There is no point in bringing students to various courses that they still can't handle. You may seem kind if you attract all students to very demanding educations, regardless of prior knowledge or ability. In fact, you are not nice to either the students or the higher education system as a whole. We have heard from many quarters that there are complaints about students with a lack of prior knowledge. Maybe now's the time to do something about it. Another very important measure to improve the quality of our higher education programmes is to increase the proportion of teacher-led teaching time, including in the humanities. The proportion of teacher-led teaching time has decreased over decades, and of course quality ultimately suffers. However, TCO has been able to note some improvement recently, and that is a good thing. We invest SEK 250 million to increase the teacher-led time in our higher education institutions. With the abolition of the heavily criticised productivity reduction, it will be an additional SEK 200 million that we intend to go to more teacher-led teaching time. It is therefore purely quality-enhancing measures. "The education offering at universities and higher education institutions must respond to students' demand and labour market needs," says the government's regulatory letter. We want governance to be tougher than it is today and for the state to take greater responsibility for the common need. Then the ma n at the same time unfortunately lowers the importance of the students' demand. It's inevitable that way. But of course, no university should organise courses that no one wants to attend. However, we need to look more closely at the labour market and social needs. Control shall be carried out through a ceiling for the student money that is paid out. This is already happening today, but stronger governance is needed. Another way to train students in shortage professions is to draw up contracts between the higher education institutions and the state. We believe that this should be done more than is the case today. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I am involved in collaboration between different higher education institutions – I mentioned it in the research speech as well. We believe that there is potential for development to be gained by merging small colleges administratively with larger universities. Of course, the small colleges should remain. There are many reasons for that, and there are a lot of social gains with it. But there is often no profit in having their own administration and acting as independent colleges. It's a waste of resources. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to say a few words about our architectural training. The street rooms in our cities are, of course, primarily a matter for the municipalities' detailed plans and the establishment of beauty councils. But we should also look at the architectural training to ensure that students are given the importance of pleasant and representative architecture in the public sphere. A beautiful city like Stockholm can be devastated for future generations unless new construction takes place with gentle and humble hands. The public space in a city belongs to the residents and visitors, not just the developer or architect. I will have to pursue this issue in the form of individual motions for so long, but in the future I am sure that the issue will be embraced by all responsible parties in this House.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-180	Mr President, I would like to I thank Robert Stenkvist for interesting information about how the Swedish Democrats think about university issues. To some extent, we must say that it is a bit shrouded in mystery what the Swedish Democrats prioritise. But we from the Moderates appreciate a focus on quality. We also share some of the analysis of the importance of seeing a whole education chain. I hope that this is an attitude that can be shared by many more in this Parliament. It is about building quality throughout the education chain and having open doors, so that you can go in and out and improve. Cooperation is another concept which we absolutely support and which we highlight. It will be exciting to see to what extent we can look at resource allocation systems. But one thing I note is that the Swedish Democrats are picking up proposals that have actually been submitted from various organisations. We can read quite easily that one particular question comes from the organization X and another from the organization Y. It would have been interesting to see an analysis of what is actually important to emphasise and what you are saying. Then I would also like a reflection on the carrot and whip issue. You say that you want much more administrative cooperation between higher education institutions and also collaboration in terms of which programmes are to be given. We are absolutely in favour of that. But we're more of a carrot. Instead, we want to give a kind of premium to those who cooperate and motivate voluntarily. We think it's a more powerful way to get through. I would like to hear one comment on that.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-183	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the question of various lobby organisations that influence. Of course we listen to them. But the first thing I learned when I started as a political secretary in 2011 was never to get a proposal from the first best lobby organization. We have the principle that we listen to everyone before we put our foot down. I do not really understand where these proposals would come from in private. We have adopted some proposals after listening to a great many different organisations. Then it may be that you take over a proposal that you think is great. But some suggestions have been made over time when we have talked to people who work a lot in colleges. We have a circle of people who work in college, and we've listened to them a lot. I think you have to listen to everyone first and then put your foot down. At worst, you may change your mind when you discover that you are wrong, but it has not happened so far. What was the second question?
i-7cb88ac826c5950a-0	Excuse me, Mr President, the question was about dimensioning. ) That's right! It was about different educations. I immediately understood that this was a sensitive issue, and I almost expected a reply from Betty Malmberg on this, Mr President. There's a misgame here. Last time I read a report from TCO from 2013. There it appears that it is trained for many from many educations. It happens year after year.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-187	Mr President, I would like to First, I have to correct a task that I said before in terms of reservations. I had an old edition. It is reservations 25 and 28 that I support. I thank Robert Stenkvist for his answer. I also see no disadvantage in listening in and having a dense international analysis. This is a very important task for us politicians. However, it is a little interesting to see that the same concepts and the same terms of certain things come back into the present proposals. Still, it can be exciting to see: What analysis was made along the way that made it something we were caught up in? There's talk of dimensioning to college. Of course, it is important for prospective students that they know that there is a labour market outside. Therefore, we from the Moderates want to strengthen study and career guidance throughout the education chain. We believe that this is an important way forward. We are talking about quality in education. But it is also a question of improving the interaction between the working life of the region and the training provided. The University Chancellor's Office has been doing analyses. There you can see that even collaboration with municipalities regarding the need for teacher training places is not enough. There we want to find a way forward where you look at just how you can increase that kind of interface between the universities and the labour market around. Finally, I would like to say that we have enormous problems and enormous need for teachers in the future. Robert Stenkvist chooses not to mention this but to mention the architectural education. I would like to hear a little: what is the view of the Swedish democrats on the alarming figures in the field of teacher education?
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-192	Mr President, I would like to I agree with almost everything you said about collaboration, Betty Malmberg. I fully agree. I did not include teacher training in my speech. It had become too long, and I wanted to wait until we made more concrete proposals. We have a lot of ideas and thoughts. But here we have to wait until we come up with concrete proposals. We have here a paradox that we must solve. We have few teachers. Now the admission to teacher training has increased. It is also too low a requirement for them to be taken in. That's a double problem. Can we raise the standards when there is such a pressing need for new teachers? What effect does it have on teacher training? You have to think in step two, too. I think somewhere we need to take a bigger hold. Wages must be increased. Teachers must be given career opportunities to become more attractive teachers. It's not an easy equation to put together. I can stand in the speaker's chair and make some simple suggestions. However, I do not think it is possible to resolve this problem with a few simple proposals. We need to get a little closer to the situation in Finland where students choose between becoming a doctor and becoming a teacher. At this level it is in our neighbouring country Finland. This may have been the case in Sweden once. But it's not that anymore. What's gone wrong? What are we going to try to get back? I agree with the description of the problem. But the solution is not so easy. We've been thinking a lot about the solution. I think we need to go somewhere and screw back, start over a little bit from the beginning and get a higher status in teacher training. There's no other way.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-198	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Alliance-wide reservation No 28 and also of the Center Party's reservation No 10 on higher education throughout the country. If Sweden is to keep up with international competition and become even more competitive, substantial reforms in higher education are needed to improve competition, increase collaboration and also improve quality in education. Today we have quite major challenges in higher education in several areas. We have a low throughput rate. We have a high graduation age for those who graduate from college. We have a high age of establishment in the labour market in Sweden. For many who read further, it is also not worthwhile to learn in higher education. Many students also feel that there is a poor link between education and the labour market. Up to half of them say that they think that the job relationship is too bad at their education. We also have a major problem with the mismatch in the labour market between what you train for and what the labour market demands. There are problems with both to some extent over-training where you are more educated than the labour market requires and with under-training. We simply have many professions in which too few are trained. Just because major and substantial reforms are needed in higher education does not mean that we need to spend more money on it. I want to be clear about that. There is an unfortunate confusion: that good reforms are expensive reforms. That is not the case. In higher education, changes are needed, above all, in what we see need for. When it comes to increased competition, it is extremely important to improve quality. There is a need for increased autonomy so that higher education institutions have more say and can specialise in the areas that they believe they can develop within. Then politics must release power to the profession to a greater extent. The Center Party also wants to see more foundation colleges than today's three. Even more universities will have the opportunity to transform into foundations, become more independent and thus also have the opportunity to adapt their activities more according to their local conditions. We also want to make it possible for more foreign universities to establish themselves in Sweden and create opportunities for new players in the Swedish education market. I think this would have been very beneficial in improving competition and attractiveness for higher education in Sweden. Greater competition and more autonomy drive the development forward. The Center Party also wants to change the resource allocation system in higher education with an increased focus on regional collaboration, working life and quality. The government made a change that withdrew the quality resources that the Alliance introduced. Today's system is based on the fact that universities receive compensation in two ways. One is per number of students and the other is per number of approved students. It's not driving things forward. It has been a system that has existed for a very long time. We want to see a change in this in order to create the conditions for better working life, increased quality and better collaboration with the rest of society. Changes are also needed to increase the opportunity for more students to study summer courses that are relevant in order to get a faster throughput and be able to reward in-depth courses. Mr President, I would like to From the Center Party, we want education to lead to work. It's extremely important. Then the job relationship is crucial. As I pointed out in the introduction, today only every second student in higher education thinks that the job relationship was good at the education they have studied. That's where the Center Party wants to see reforms. We want to create even better opportunities for student co-workership, which is on trial in Skåne, among others. We want to see increased internships on the courses, but also strengthen the role of study and career guidance. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, higher education throughout the country is extremely important. We see that regional colleges are important for local society. They are usually very driven in collaboration with the rest of society. They are a driving force in terms of innovation and locally also an engine for regional knowledge dissemination. This must be allowed to continue. In order to provide people with opportunities for higher education throughout the country, it is crucial to create even better conditions for online education. If we think that regional universities are important because they are relatively local and move education closer, there is nothing against how online education can move education closer. It can move the training to the office and kitchen table, get people to learn and go further education. This is particularly true for further training – enabling further reading to be made possible in order to take the next step on the career stage. This is an important issue for obtaining higher education throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to Another issue highlighted in the report is the teaching profession and enabling more people to enter the profession. Based on a report released last week that one out of every four people drop out of teacher education – in subject teacher education, it is almost half of them who do not complete their education – it is extremely important to strengthen the quality of education. It is a matter of ensuring that there is competition among the training coordinators so that it becomes more attractive to apply for the courses. The Center Party is the driving force for us to enable independent teacher training. We want to provide better conditions for companies to establish teacher training. We also want to provide better conditions for supplementary education for those people with academic background who want to change direction and become teachers. We must encourage this in a number of respects. Again, it is about quality. We will ensure that quality is strengthened so that reading is attractive enough, thereby reducing the drop-out from education. Let me conclude by summarising a little of what the Center Party sees as extremely important: we need reforms in higher education. We have high quality in higher education today, but it can be even better. A changed system is then needed when it comes to the resource allocation system. We need to ensure that higher education is available throughout the country, both through regional universities and, above all, through online training courses that make this possible. We need to ensure that the employment relationship is strengthened so that education and training better matches the needs of the labour market. I believe that this is crucial in order for us to have better higher education in Sweden.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-218	Mr President, I would like to In the fourth century after Kristus lived a woman named Hypatia in Alexandria. She was good at mathematics and astronomy and some other subjects. She was so good that people began to come to her to learn more and listen to her. What was challenging was that she didn't care who came to her. She welcomed both educated people and completely uneducated people. She welcomed those who lived in the city, those who came to the city and those who just came to see her. This was so incredibly challenging for those in Alexandria at the time that she was first warned. When she refused to stop teaching, she was torn out of the academy, strapped behind a cart, and pulled her through the city. By the time you got outside the city, you cut her up and spread the pieces in the ditch. This is a picture of how important knowledge and the search for knowledge have been in all times in human history. It also shows how people have felt threatened by the existence of knowledge, the spread of knowledge, and the increase in knowledge. Today we see the same story taking place in many parts of the world. A number of dictatorships, not least former Communists but also others, allow themselves to try to attract international education in order to boost the economy and their own society. At the same time, they place a strong force inside their own society where people who gain new knowledge will challenge the societies that today restrict people. We see how countries in the Arab world, for example, attract international top universities to educate their population, but how they will also, in the long term, undermine their own dictatorship and create the basis for democracy. It shows how strong knowledge is and how important it is that we spread knowledge both from a societal perspective and from an individual perspective. He who has knowledge has more power over his own life. The person who has knowledge, and increasing knowledge, also gets a chance to lift himself out of such circumstances and make a class trip. Mr President, I would like to Then quality is required. If you do not have quality in the education system and do not have quality in what is taught in universities and colleges and in the rest of the school, you deceive the people who go there. Then you fool the people who sacrifice much of their time and resources to attend an education. It also cements the structures that exist today. That is why quality is so important, and that is why I am so glad that the speakers who have spoken so far have very clearly said that we should have more quality in education and that we should invest more in driving quality in teaching at higher education institutions and universities. I hope that this theme continues also when those who have the government will eventually speak. Quality is required at each level. There is a need for a quality evaluation system that drives more quality and increases quality across the country. A balance needs to be struck between how to increase the quantitative measures at the university – more places – and how to meet this with increased qualitative resources. This applies not least to the humsam area, which we know has been lagging behind for a long time. Well, well-prepared students are needed. All these educational systems must be built on one another. The different stages must be based on each other. If you have a preschool that is good, it will be easier with primary school. If you have a comprehensive school that is good, it's easier with high school. If you have a high school that works well, it is also easier to have quality in higher education. Today we see how this is being gradually undermined from below. This also means that the quality of teaching in the university unfortunately does not have the level that one would like and the level that Sweden needs if we are both to be able to compete in the global market and ensure that people have a chance to grow and develop and make a social journey in the country. Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it is particularly crucial that we get the quality of teacher training in order. We need to have a teaching profession that is attractive and where people flock to education both because it is good and attractive in itself and because the profession they then get is attractive. It is necessary to feel that the education you go to become a teacher is something that gives you a lot of knowledge. Whether you intend to stay in the teaching profession or not, it should be an attractive education to attend. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. There's too few applicants. Although there have been more applicants in recent years, there are still too few applicants and too little competition for the places. We need more ways in. This applies to those who are coming to the country now and who have the ability and opportunity to become teachers quite quickly. We must be able to translate their education and pass them on to teacher training. But it also applies to those who are academics in society today in Sweden and who, with a supplementary education, could become teachers quite quickly. We shall ensure that these paths are better and more attractive than they are today. This would mean that we can face the lack of teachers today in school in a more effective way. It is probably also necessary to concentrate teacher education more than we do today. Not least when it comes to subject teacher education, we would need to see reforms linking subject teacher education for the latter part of comprehensive school with upper secondary school, focusing the power around these programmes to fewer higher education institutions than today and ensuring that the quality is really high. For example, you should be able to read a master in a subject and then supplement with educational skills. A great deal is being done, Mr President, to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. But much more is needed. Basically, it is a question of ensuring that there is fierce competition for the places in teacher training. Mr President, I would like to For this to be connected, we also need to have good conditions for students. A good study aid system is needed, but housing is also needed. We are seeing today how students are forced to say no and cannot apply for the places they want because there is no place to live. Housing policy in general must become more market-friendly and more liberal, and there must be fewer subsidies. But special efforts are also needed to create student housing. In 2010, the Alliance government introduced an opportunity for higher education institutions to rent out to, for example, secondary students. From the Liberals' and the Alliance's side, we see that it should be permanent. Mr President, I would like to We will all need to replenish with knowledge gradually throughout our lives. This need will increase over time. We see how society is increasingly changing. It requires that we then have the ability and opportunity to go back to universities, colleges and other educational institutions to replenish our own knowledge and to be able to employ only. Mr President, I would like to It also takes, to get back to what I started with, that we have a chance to replenish with knowledge. It is difficult to orient oneself in a rapidly changing society, and then you need to replenish your own education in order to become better at both orienting yourself and understanding what is happening around you. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to endorse reservation 28.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-233	Mr President, I would like to The most important task of higher education is to convey knowledge. To make this possible, competent university teachers and researchers, a stimulating working environment and student social security are required. Christian-democratic higher education policy is therefore based on knowledge, quality, choice and security. The student should be at the centre – and education. However, there is one challenge that I am experiencing overshadows most of what is currently happening in the education debate, namely the issue of the quality of teacher education and the lack of teachers that we already have but which will escalate in the future. Our motions deal to a large extent with this central issue, and I will therefore focus my speech on this particular issue. Mr President, I would like to According to the Teachers' Association, 65 000 teachers will be missing by 2020. At the same time, there are 37 000 trained teachers who have left the profession and chosen a different career. In addition, Svenska Dagbladet reported last week that one in four students who today attend the teacher training drop out. In discussions with the students about the reasons for the drop-out, it turns out that their views are consistent with much of what we Christian Democrats have put forward over a longer period of time and which is about increased demands and aptitude tests. The absence of competition for places in education leads even those who are not suitable for the teaching profession to enter the education. As a result, the status of the teaching profession risks falling further and the quality of teaching becomes inferior. This creates a vicious circle that is difficult to break. In order to bring about a change, increased competition for places is required so that only one selection of applicants is accepted. In addition to basic qualifications, a minimum grade E in certain subjects is required today in order to be qualified for teacher training. We Christian Democrats believe that this is not enough. In order to be admitted to teacher training, a minimum grade B in certain subjects shall be required. For example, a primary teacher must have a higher grade in Swedish and English and a subject teacher a higher grade in teaching subjects. In order to further strengthen the selection process so that the right people become teachers, some form of admission test or aptitude test should also be introduced. In Finland, which we often compare with, students are tested for teacher education and also for other higher education programmes. This is now being tested at two universities in Sweden, namely Jönköping and Växjö. The two universities have designed their tests in slightly different ways, and it will be very exciting to follow the evaluation of these in order to be able to develop this further eventually. We Christian Democrats believe that the first VFU, i.e. the operational training, should be seen to a greater extent as an opportunity for reflection on the suitability of the teacher candidate for the profession. In this connection, there should also be the possibility of shutting down a student who is unfit. Mr President, I would like to While it is important that the right people become teachers and to increase quality, the need for good teachers is very great. We must therefore have flexible supplementary training courses that quickly increase the availability of qualified teachers. Those who have been working as teachers but have been unauthorized can today supplement with an educational education in order to reach a teacher's degree. It is a step in the right direction, but we need to be able to offer more fast ways into the teaching profession. A person with a degree in a relevant subject or professional knowledge should be able to reach a teacher's degree through a supplementary education in pedagogy. The programme must be able to take place at half-time and include 60 credits. Flexible solutions are also needed at our higher education institutions such as summer courses in order for more people to finish their teacher education faster. Mr President, I would like to Good leadership at a school is crucial for success. We Christian Democrats want an academic education in educational leadership that corresponds to today's Vice-Chancellor's education and the Rektor lift. Even those who did not intend to become principal but, for example, first teachers should be able to complete their teacher training with such an education. It should not be a requirement to be a teacher in order to attend this training or to be hired as a principal. It can be positive if managers from other activities seek a vice-chancellor's position after completing the education in pedagogical leadership. However, it is important that the vice-chancellor has an education at an academic level that corresponds to the level of education the staff that they are appointed to lead have. Mr President, I would like to When we so often discuss that Swedish schools are not equal, we often end up in the wrong issues. One important point that the OECD points out is that we actually have 28 different teacher training courses in Sweden and that the quality of the different teacher training courses and colleges varies. This needs to be reviewed. We may have to have teacher training in 28 different places, but I believe, as Christer Nylander mentioned, a greater specialisation in which competence is more concentrated and where higher education institutions can profile and specialise more in improving quality. Teacher education needs to be given more resources for increased teacher-led teaching. The number of lessons in teacher training has decreased considerably. An internal report from the University Study in 1992 showed that students who were trained as middle school teachers in the 1970s could receive up to 24 hours of teaching per week, and in 1990 that figure was 14 hours. In 2010, according to a TCO report, a large majority of teachers had less than 9 hours of teaching per week. The time of the training must be filled with more content. It is not reasonable that you can work 75 percent and at the same time attend teacher training. Mr President, I would like to It is worrying about the only answer we have to the current and upcoming teacher shortage are more places at the teacher's school. Teachers are the single most important factor for good knowledge in our classrooms. It is therefore of great importance that teachers are of high quality. We do not need more teachers in the first place, but the right teachers. This is achieved by attracting other professional groups into teacher training, by introducing aptitude tests and higher admission requirements, and by increasing the quality of education by more teacher-led teaching hours. This together increases the quality and status of the profession. Of course, I support all our motions, but for time-winning, I only approve of reservations 28 and 24.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-248	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I will not touch on the sections on teacher training and on further pathways to the teaching profession. I will leave them with a warm hand to my colleague Gunilla Svantorp to comment. I will focus on some important basic principles that should apply to higher education in Sweden, and there will also be comments on some exercises. First of all, I would like to say clearly and loudly that Swedish higher education should one keep the very highest quality one. I think Christer Nylander feels satisfied when I say this. The principle, that we should have the highest quality, we must never blur. Ultimately, it is a conscious approach, that one has in the spinal cord that it is quality that should characterize Swedish higher education. We have recently decided on a new quality evaluation system that will enable us to ensure that all education is of high quality and that the system is also a quality driver. Of course, financial resources are needed to make it possible to improve quality, even if money is not always the whole solution. I am pleased that the Government is now allocating SEK 875 million during the current term of office to strengthen the quality of humanities and social sciences, as well as teacher and teacher education. That is good, and it will enable more teacher-led teaching. The question of autonomy of higher education institutions is part of this quality work. It is the higher education institutions that are responsible for ensuring that the education they offer is of the highest quality. There is no need for major state organisational changes to the government structure or for more university foundations to strengthen autonomy. It is more about trust between government, parliament and higher education institutions. The freedom of education and research is an important foundation that must be protected and developed responsibly by both politics and academia. Here I would like to add to what Betty Malmberg said. Autonomy also brings us to the issue of academic leadership. It is extremely important that we have the opportunity to develop academic leadership. It is also important that we balance leadership – balance between line management and collegial governance. The issue of quality is also about increased equality. This is a very important issue for the government. The Government's commitment to gender mainstreaming, as well as the National Expert Group on Gender Equality in Higher Education, are therefore very welcome. Similarly, the Government's ambition to develop the internationalisation of higher education is an important quality issue, as is the importance of student participation and influence in education. Another quality issue is to remove the inconvenience of the many fixed-term contracts. In connection with the issue of quality, I would also like to comment on the question of the current resource allocation system, which several motions address. Two government investigations have highlighted the issue. The first investigation came in 2005 and the second in 2007, but no proposals for major system changes came in the eight bourgeois years of government. Several stakeholders are now proposing a review of the resource allocation system that has been in place since 1993. I can personally subscribe to this view, but we should first await the experience of the pilot models that Vinnova is currently testing for the collaboration of higher education institutions with the surrounding society. The somewhat obscene interest of the Moderate Party and the Center Party in this question should be raised in relief to the effect that they did not pursue this question during their reign. Mr President, I would like to The second important basic principle of higher education is dimensioning. Anyone who wants and has a qualification must be given the opportunity to study at a higher education institution or university. It is therefore important to expand the university, just as this government does. Up to 2019 there will be more than 14 000 new higher education places. It's strategic and important. In an international perspective, we must ensure that we do not lag behind the level of knowledge in other countries. The former bourgeois government showed little interest in investing in more graduates. It's not good enough for us to be a leading knowledge nation. In increasingly fierce international competition, we need many well-educated people. Broader recruitment is important for higher education. Unfortunately, I note that we have not been able to see any major progress on this issue during the period of bourgeois government. It is still more common for children of educated parents to continue their studies than for young people who do not have educated parents to do so. We must make better use of all young people, regardless of their socio-economic background, and give them the opportunity for higher education. We must also open the way for greater ethnic diversity in the university. A broader recruitment is also about attracting more young men to the university. The Swedish Council for Higher Education has recommended that the Government ensure that there is a strategy at all universities to strengthen the broader recruitment. It is also an important quality issue. A third basic principle, which is also about quality, concerns the research relationship of higher education. It must evolve. We need to strengthen the link between basic education and research. It is an approach that should characterise all universities. This can be done in several ways. Let me give you two examples of what we should be doing. A first important measure is to ensure that new students are able to meet a well-qualified researcher at the beginning of their studies. We are not so good at this in Sweden if we compare ourselves with other countries, such as the United States. Yesterday's DN Debate highlighted another example of how we strengthen the link between research and education. There, the debaters pointed out how we need to strengthen teacher education and the teaching profession through an increased research link. A fourth basic principle is about the third task of higher education, sharing knowledge and interacting with the surrounding society. That is why the link to working life is important, and several motions raise this issue. It is particularly important when it comes to professional training, but I believe that a clear link with the labour market in all education and training is a good thing and needs to be developed. A motion addresses the issue of mobility between higher education institutions. It is of course important, but just as important is that we get mobility for university teachers between academia, companies and the public sector. Research merit systems, as well as other incentives, need to be developed to improve this mobility. One issue that can be related to working life is the importance of higher education throughout the country, which the Center Party touches on in a motion. I share the view that access to a university or university is crucial to the attractiveness of regions. Thus, learning is becoming dynamic growth engines for companies and the public sector. It is good that the Center Party is marking this, and I welcome it. Unfortunately, your vote on this was less strong during your time in the government. But welcome to pursue this issue, because it is an issue that is important for the current government. Finally, I would like to highlight a fifth basic principle: higher education strengthens lifelong learning. We must provide more opportunities for people to take part in stand-alone courses and distance learning, so that they can combine a job with the possibility of skills development. Digitalisation is opening up new opportunities here. I am convinced that it will change our society and provide opportunities for education in a different and richer way. I also believe that MOOC, i.e. massive open online courses, is a way forward. This can develop the educational offerings of higher education institutions and, at the same time, strengthen lifelong learning. Some exercisers point to the importance of universities cooperating with municipal learning centres by placing educations at such learning centres. I think this is an important issue. It is good that you can develop cooperation between higher education institutions and municipal learning centres. It also strengthens lifelong learning. Mr President, I would like to Following Labour's accession to power in 1997, Tony Blair said that my government's three priorities are education, training and education. Our present government has the same attitude. Higher education and all education are a high priority. This is how we build Sweden strong. That's how we create new jobs, and that's how we develop welfare. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject any reservations.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-273	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Thomas Strand, for many important basic principles that we well in large part! Thomas Strand also mentioned how important quality is and assures us that the government stands up for the highest quality. But that's probably where my opinion differs a little from Thomas Strands. I think it has been demonstrated in action that this is not the case. Money is not everything – absolutely not. But when you cut off 300 million dollars, planned and, in principle, already forecasted money, from colleges, I still have to react. This does not correlate with standing up for long-termness and standing up for quality. Now that we are saying that we want a review of the resource allocation system, Thomas Strand says: Why was nothing done earlier? Thomas Strand does not remember that the alliance government actually introduced quality money, precisely to reward quality. It was one way to make it clear that this was what the Alliance government was aiming for in higher education. That is why it is even more unfortunate to do so. Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I put an open question to Thomas Strand about, among other things, what happens to tuition fees? The Minister for Higher Education sometimes suggests that it is prepared to review whether these fees should be removed. This means that we will have even less money to distribute if we assume it is the status quo. Then it would be even less money to allocate to higher education. I would like an answer to that.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-278	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is important to be clear on this point that quality is the primary issue in higher education. I've always said that. And I know that representatives of the party to which I belong always say so, even if we are sometimes questioned about it. Quality is extremely important. We believe that it is possible to combine high quality with expanding the university. It's important. With regard to the SEK 300 million that Betty has mentioned and which we have discussed in the past, it is quite right that they were removed as a temporary measure. I don't think that's a secret to Betty Malmberg either. With the situation we had in Sweden last autumn, when so many people fled for their lives and came to Sweden, we must all help each other to meet the great needs and suffering that exist. Higher education, too, was allowed to take part in the cake, just as all other areas of expenditure were allowed to do. That's the explanation. In fact, I think that is reasonable in view of all the suffering that is being seen. To this we will say that we will contribute SEK 875 million during the current term of office to strengthen the qualifications in the field of social education, including teacher training. So there is money for quality. Then one should say that the universities have had a very great understanding of this: that everyone must help in this situation. It's a temporary measure. We'll make sure quality money doesn't go away forever. I think I will choose to answer the question of tuition fees later, because now I see that my speaking time is up.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-283	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Thomas Strand, for your answer! Thomas Strand says: High quality we can combine with an extension of the number of places. Of course that is the case. You can do that many times. At the same time, however, the more people that money should be distributed to, the fewer crowns it will be per person. It's a concern. During its time, the Alliance government actually added SEK 1.2 billion in extra money to higher education for quality aspects. However, the higher education institutions say that it was not that that meant that they could at the same time improve their education. It is also about an approach and an approach. There, me and Thomas Strand share the same view. I have another question. It is now said that work experience will give basic qualifications to higher education. I know it is an investigation mission, but I would like to hear Thomas Strand reflect a little on it and what signals it gives to all those who in upper secondary schools and in Komvux strive to create their platform in different ways in order to be able to proceed with basic education. Is it really the case that just because I have been a professional, I meet the requirements to be able to continue studying at the university? I have one more question. It concerns the educational objective. During the time of the Social Democrats in opposition they always said: We must raise so that more people have higher education in Sweden. There was talk of something that was estimated to cost 4 billion a year over seven years. Where has this approach gone?
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-287	Mr President, I would like to Now that the Alliance government has provided as much quality means as is good, the question can be asked: Why has the teaching of teachers not improved? Money isn't everything. That now, in order to face a great suffering that many people experience as they flee for their lives, we help by reducing this amount by SEK 300 million, I do not think, is the big problem. What happens when it comes to tuition fees? Yes, an investigation will look at this. When we took that decision in this House, we Social Democrats voted in favour of the proposal to introduce tuition fees. It's still there. But we think it is important to look at this issue. It's not just us doing it. The Center Party has a motion on this. The Green Party has a motion. This issue concerns several parties. Is this a good long-term reform? I can't answer that now. We have to look at it. That is why I think it is good to have someone investigate this with tuition fees. Let us return to that question! When it comes to the issue of work experience, it is a bit strange, I think. If you work, you must learn something at the same time. The fact that you are in the workplace is also a form of competence development, a constant learning. Is it not important to have that thought when it comes to further reading? Is it just that you should have attended exactly an education in order to move on? We must not think in drainpipes, but must think more far and wide. I think it is a good thing that we are looking at that question. I think it was negative that the 25:4 rule was removed. We are not saying that exactly it should be introduced again but that we actually value work experience as a learning. Constant learning is also important when we talk about higher education. It's important.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-292	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the fact that Thomas Strand quoted Tony Blair. There is only one problem with that, and that is that it is Stefan Löfven who is Prime Minister of Sweden and party leader of the Social Democrats and not Tony Blair. Unfortunately – I would have liked to have seen that it was Tony Blair who led the Social Democracy in Sweden too. His focus on education, education and education is something that Sweden would also need. I do not see that today's government is delivering in this area. There's a very low pace of reform at the Department of Education. Thomas Strand himself thought I'd be happy if he said quality was important. But think, I'm not happy that this is said. I am pleased when actions come, and I see very few actions leading in that direction. Then Thomas Strand comes back to that it is quantity that applies. He beats his chest on the occasion of the creation of 14,000 new places. My question to Thomas Strand is: If it turns out that you cannot match the quality of these places when Thomas Strand and the government expand the quantity, what choice would Thomas Strand make? Would he choose quantity, or would he choose quality? I believe that if you want social mobility, on which I and Thomas Strand agree, you cannot just have more places. We must ensure that those who go to those places get the knowledge needed to move forward in society and grow as human beings.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-297	Mr President, I would like to Here we think differently, me and Christer Nylander. I believe that Stefan Löfven is in a good tradition when it comes to Labour's view of strengthening education. That is where we are on the same line, I would say. When Christer Nylander claims that we are not doing anything, it is not true to reality. We invest a lot of resources, a lot of money, in strengthening education in Sweden. We have more seats, but we are actually talking about more money, because it is the amount of money that we pay out that we then redistribute to places. So there will be more money into the university to get more to study. We have far more places at the university of applied sciences than you had. We have an enormous investment in municipal adult education and vocational adult education, for example. We have also launched the concept of the "Knowledgelift" to raise this issue. We have therefore taken action, and that is why what Christer Nylander says is not quite true about the fact that we have no quality measures. It is just that you do not want to see these measures but deny them. But if you read in our papers and the draft budget, you can see that there is. As far as the quality system and the question of quantity and quality are concerned, it is just as I said before: I actually think it is possible to combine more places with a high quality. That is why we say that we now allow these 87 5 million crowns to go to the hummam area to strengthen the quality over four years plus that there will be more places. That is a good example of how we think it is possible to combine both.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-303	Mr President, I would like to I believe that education is central to Sweden. But it is also central to the individual and his ability to grow as a human being and take more of his own life and decide more about it. Not only does it require a place in an education, but it also requires that it is very good quality of that education, that you meet teachers who are good, that you have ambitions to learn more yourself and that it is actually rewarded that you invest, strive and make efforts. I would therefore like to repeat my simple question: if it were to turn out, if Thomas Strand thinks that the university cannot be expanded as quickly as possible without having negative consequences for quality, and those negative consequences for quality affect the individual's and the student's opportunities for social mobility and class travel – if it turns out that it is not able to maintain quality one when the quantity is greatly expanded, which choice does Thomas Strand make?
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-305	Mr President, I would like to I wonder why certain bourgeois parties always see a conflict between quantity and quality, i.e. that an increase in the number of places would be detrimental to quality. I think the opposite is true! There doesn't have to be any conflict. Of course we don't want to expand the university to all absurdity. We never said that. There is a measure in the EU context that means that in the group of 30 – 34-year-olds at least, as we think, 50% should have completed post-secondary education for at least two years. We are getting close to that point, and I think that is a good measure. We should be able to offer places to those who want to study and have the right to study. I don't understand why there should be a conflict between place and quality. I also agree with Christer Nylander that it is important for students to meet a good teacher. Teacher education is an important issue that is at the heart of this debate, and I said, among other things, that it is extremely important that we strengthen the link between research and education. That is why I find the debate article that came in yesterday in Dagens Nyheter very interesting. It says that we need to strengthen research in relation to teacher education and professorship. Then it becomes extremely strange when Jan Björklund says on Twitter that this is the wrong way to go. I mean, that's a violation of quality thinking. We need to invest more in research in relation to teacher education. I think it is important to clean up our own doors before accusing us of not wanting to deal with quality issues.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-311	Mr President, I would like to It is always interesting to hear Thomas Strand's speeches and also the lines. It raises some questions, and I'll try to stick with some of those who come up. To start where the last line shift ended, Thomas Strand pointed out that there need be no contradiction between quality and quantity. But basically it is about having money to distribute, and either you put it in more places or you spend the money on making the places that exist even better and thus more attractive. You can see teacher training as an example. Now that we have such a high percentage as to drop out of the education, it would have been better to invest those resources in ensuring that the education and admissions are so good that the students who are admitted actually want to complete their education. I think that would have been better financially. There are several other questions, and I would like to hear Thomas Strand's comments on them. The second point I would like to highlight is precisely the resource allocation system. What the Alliance did was to introduce a quality money. That's very good. The first thing the new government did when it took office was to remove that money. Now several of us point out that we should review the resource allocation system again and look at different parameters, and we from the Center Party think that one can look at whether work relationship, regional collaboration and more can be involved. My question to Thomas Strand is: Is there any kind of interest from the government to have a consensus on this? They call themselves a government of cooperation. Why, then, does it reject a review of the distribution system? Once again, it has been quite a long time since it was last done. I would also like to hear Thomas Strand develop the reasoning linked to foundations and why it is not an option to strengthen autonomy. We see successful examples of foundation schools in Sweden. Why not let more people have that opportunity?
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-317	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Fredrik Christensson that money is not everything. When you talk about quality issues, it's not just about spending more money, because it's actually an approach that should be in the spinal cord. You should live in a constant quality and change work. Therefore, I do not want to paint this conflict between quality and quantity that comes back time and again. It is important that we both have the opportunity to invest in more places and at the same time can focus on strengthening quality. This government is spending a great deal of money on the education sector, and it is not just about places, it is also about strengthening quality. As far as the question of the allocation of resources is concerned, I can say personally that the system we have now has been in place since 1993. I am also among those who think it is probably time to review the system, and it is an issue that I myself as politicians are pushing towards the Ministry. I think that is a very important question. There was an investigation in 2005. Then we lost government power, and then there was another one in 2007. But not at any time did the bourgeois government make a major change in the system of resource allocation – it was this with quality money, but I do not want to say that it was the big deal. Many people think that now is actually the time to look at this in a broader and broader way. I welcome that discussion and I would like us to do it together because it is an important issue. Now it is the research bill that is coming, and then let us focus on the next question. I want to join the barricades and fight just to review this, because the issue is important.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-321	Mr President, I would like to Absolutely, I think there would have to be even more changes in the resource allocation system than just the quality money the Alliance introduced. I am pleased to hear that Thomas Strand is on that line. I would like Thomas Strand to develop the reasoning on what reforms are needed for higher education. In my speech, I highlighted a number of reforms and challenges in terms of throughput, high graduation age and very low degree premium, i.e. that education in itself does not pay off well in Sweden. On the whole, I hear in particular that much is good as it is and that what might possibly be done is to create more training places. There is no mention of reforms relating to how the system is to be changed or how we can strengthen quality. I would like to allow Thomas Strand to use his last two minutes to develop how he sees the reforms needed in higher education in order to increase competitiveness internationally.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-324	Mr President, I would like to I didn't have time to answer the question about college foundations. We have three foundations today, one can say, and we have said that we do not think we should put the effort and time into making any major changes in the structure of the form of authority for higher education institutions. Let's say we don't need any more foundations. Now you should say that the proposal that came during your time in government, Fredrik Christensson, if you are going to speak plain text was substandard. After all, it became debased by criticism and was put in a drawer, and it might be in a trash can now. That proposal did not hold. It is a rather complex issue, and I think that we can use and better develop the structure we have today. Autonomy is such an important issue I think we should think more about, in the form we have. That is what I said, namely that there is a lot about trust between academia, government and parliament. I think we could work more on how to strengthen autonomy. Then it's about the academic tool. It's about line control versus collegial control – how should we view it, and how should we develop it? I believe that it is also an important arrangement for higher education institutions themselves to conduct the fruitful dialogue on how to strengthen this. We need to profile and develop our education, invest in quality and remove things that are not of quality. That is perhaps something we politicians should not go in and do, but it must ultimately be done by the profession. That is an important issue. As far as the allocation of resources is concerned, I also believe that this is something we actually need to review. We must dare to think about it. Are there other ways we can work to stimulate quality in the world of higher education? Finally, digitalisation has only just begun. We need to think about that. What does it mean for the education sector in Sweden? I think that's some important things we're going to work on.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-329	Mr President, I would like to The government is pursuing a policy of modernisation through investment in jobs, schools, climate, education, research and more. The fact that more and more people are getting the chance to get higher quality education is a necessary building block in the red-green community. Education is more than a path to the beginning of working life; it is just as much an opportunity for individuals to develop as individuals, whether they choose to study technology, humanities, society, art or anything else. It is an opportunity for individual development we so badly need, but it is also necessary to meet the demands of a modern labour market. Mr President, I would like to For the Green Party, it is obvious that everyone should have the same opportunities to study at higher education. It should not be required to come from a family where both parents are highly educated or come from an area where higher education is seen as the natural step into adulthood. Higher education is still largely linked to the income and position of parents in society. Promoting better representativeness and greater diversity at Swedish higher education institutions and universities is therefore an obvious part of our community building. Lower thresholds and wider recruitment are the way forward, as are more higher-quality higher education places. In other words, for a forward-looking modernisation that builds Sweden stronger and more competitive, we need more people who study higher education – not less. Mr President, I would like to Since the start of the Red-Green Government, we have switched up and started to build a green society. We are addressing the challenges of equal and green modernisation, both in higher education policy and in other areas. In 2015 – 2019 we will increase the number of higher education places by 14,600. We have also exchanged quality work in higher education. A new quality assurance system and a modern quality reform will ensure that Sweden's students not only become more, but also better equipped for their continued lives with all that it entails. We also invest SEK 875 million over four years in higher education. It concerns the humanities, social sciences and more. It is money that can be used for much to improve quality. It is higher quality and more university places, not cuts, that are demanded by academia, the public sector and business. It is also what is being asked of us who believe that innovation, entrepreneurship and creativity are crucial for an equal and sustainable construction of society. Mr President, I would like to A question I was going to touch on has been touched upon by many of my colleagues in this House, including the Liberals, the Moderates and the Social Democrats. It's about quality. Quality is extremely important, but let us also remind the Alliance that one of the most important ingredients in quality work is to have a quality assurance system that is valid and effective. Seen in the rear-view mirror, the system the Alliance had during its time in power was a failed system that led straight into a dead end. It was so bad that it led Enqa, the European organisation for quality assurance, to throw Sweden out of the organisation. When you speak quality in the Alliance, it is important to remember that it is not talk and talk that applies, but it is workshop that applies. Now we have launched a quality assurance system that will apply for the coming years, and there is no contradiction between more places and better quality. On the contrary, they can complement each other. Sweden needs more places, and Sweden needs to improve the quality of higher education. That is why we are investing these funds – SEK 875 million. It is important money to improve the quality of higher education.
i-ND77GsRYc8yE6SnH4ZyTpS	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Amin, for your comments on the college report! They first touched that everyone should have the right to education. I thought we had got past the situation where we all had to stand up as representatives of political parties and tell them that we think everyone in Sweden should have the right to a high quality education. But for the sake of fact and clarity, I would like to tell you that we Moderates, too, think this is important. That is why we Moderates have fought, and that is also why the Alliance Government in its time struggled to develop the quality of primary education: to give more people the chance, more talents would burn, more would be seen with their skills and thus also gain access to higher education. It's a chain that holds together. It does not help that we go in and make changes only in college, but this must happen in everything from primary school, from preschool, and all the way up through the education system. It's to work for extended recruitment. But it takes time before we see all the effects. Then Jabar Amin, like Thomas Strand before, said that there is no contradiction between quality and quantity. In fact, there are a number of reports that still point to this, including from the University Chancellor's Office. Thomas Strand asked me in our line-up why you didn't see any effects of all the money the Alliance government pumped in. Because there were large holes in the system because under previous red governments the number of places at the university had been expanded to such an extent but not at the same time provided qualitative means. That's why I didn't notice. That's your problem.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-343	Mr President, I would like to More than ever, it has to be said here in Parliament and elsewhere that the number of higher education places of higher quality is important. What you want to do is cut the number of seats. That is why I have a question for Betty Malmberg: how many places do you want to cut back to make sure that quality is ensured? I hope you will answer that question. How many places do you want to cut down to make sure it's quality assured? We red-greens believe that there is no contradiction between more places and higher quality. I think it's a bit meagre of you who had such a failed quality assurance system– you had eight years; yet you failed to come up with a system to ensure the quality of higher education – to come here and talk about the quality of higher education. It's not credible. You failed. In just a year's time, we have been able to present a new system here in Parliament – an effective system, a modern system to ensure the quality of higher education. We're proud of that.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-347	Mr President, I would like to Yes, in just a year's time, the red - green government has been able to present a new system. Why is that? Could it be because the Alliance government had already launched an investigation on this particular subject? Could it be, Jabar Amin, that it was the alliance government that had raked the manage and completed the investigation that provided these conditions? Yes, it is true that we received criticism from Enqa. That is why we had to make corrections, as did the Alliance Government. That's the bottom line. Here you hit your chest for something you haven't even been involved in changing. It is interesting that Jabar Amin says that the previous system was so miserable. However, the evaluations of the Committee on Education, Mr President, show that this is what led the principals, our leaders in universities and colleges, to suddenly see that they did not have full control of quality. There are several such testimonies, Mr Amin, in our reports from the Committee on Education. I think it would be nice for a representative of the Green Party, who also holds the Ministry of Education, to stick to the truth in any case. Now we come to the number of places and how many places we would like to close. The Alliance government's budget was valid for last year. We had set aside funds for an expansion of 10,000 places by 2018. The red-green government is tearing up and benefits from it. Even where it has been said that we can go in and take more places, the Red-Green Government has shoveled it aside. In addition to the 10,000 seats we had until 2018, we had 300 million SEK for quality. They're gone.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-353	Mr President, I would like to In fact, the Alliance government had eight years. In eight years, an effective quality assurance system could not be delivered. It's a fact. It is also a fact that it was the system that led to a breakdown and that Sweden was thrown out for the first time. You must admit that was a complete failure. When I and several others here in the pulpit of the Parliament plenary criticised the Alliance and the Minister for Education Jan Björklund for the accident and how bad it was, we always got the answer that enqa is wrong. We're right. This is going to be all right – let's say we got kicked out of Enqa. We have now delivered a new quality assurance system that has been adopted and will apply from a red-green perspective. I'm proud and happy about that.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-357	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the proposal in the report and reject the motions. I wanted to start my speech with a few words from Prime Minister Stefan Löfven from the 2015 Government Declaration: 中 The vast majority of us bear the memory of a special teacher. One who explained what was difficult. Someone who challenged you when you were ready. One who expected great things and helped you get there. Someone who saw you. Teachers are the key to reversing school development. But they can't do it alone. Hard work will be required – by us as a society and by all students and parents. The government has three focusses: raising knowledge outcomes, increasing equality and increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession. ..................................................... Important and very true words. We want the very best school, which really sees all children and gives them the opportunity to develop and learn. To succeed, teachers are the most important. It therefore feels very good to belong to a government party that invests in the school and the teachers as a professional group and that takes the challenges seriously. The desire to become a teacher may be awakened during your own school days or when you realize, in adulthood after another job, that it is probably still at school that you want to work. To succeed in becoming a good and skilled teacher requires above all a good foundation to stand on. Here, teacher training is an important tool. As early as last year, we spent 125 million on improving the quality of education and training, and we are raising this year and the coming year to 250 million a year, which means that the government is investing almost 1 billion in the term of office. It is important to increase the number of teacher-led lessons. It is also important to review the operational training. There are now experiments with training schools that it will be interesting to follow the results of. Another important thing is to strengthen research links in education, that we know that what we do in education is actually the right things. That is why we need to consider whether historical choices in teacher education have been correct or whether we need to rethink in order to strengthen the profession. We'll get back to that. We have great challenges ahead of us. We know that until 2019 we will need to double the number of graduates. To achieve this, many different inputs and outputs are required in the teaching profession. I have had the privilege of following Teach for Sweden a little closer. It is one of the newer and more exciting entrances to the profession. It is an entrance where the person who has previously invested in math, NO, technology or language in another profession has the opportunity to train as a teacher on site in school. It's tough, but I think those who come out of school are well motivated and really needed in school. The government also enables other academics in supplementary education to take up their place in school. That's good. Another important group to focus on are the many new arrivals who come to Sweden and who bring the teacher training in their luggage. For them, the government is now quickly investigating what training efforts are needed, what validation of knowledge and competence should look like, and how this can be combined with on-site internships in school environments. Mr President, I would like to More people want to be teachers, even if there are still too few who want to be teachers. The search pressure has increased by 12 per cent over the past year. Therefore, the government increases the number of seats by 2,300. In order for us to do the right things, the National collection for the teaching profession is important as a meeting place between the parties and the government where important challenges for the future can be discussed. And that's how it's done. I have highlighted some of the challenges that have been discussed in the National collection for the teaching profession and where the government has put forward important proposals that have been based on explicit needs. I hope that the important meeting place will continue to work well. No one in Sweden benefits from proposing reforms that are not in demand.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-372	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla Svantorp, for your important post where you lifted up the situation we are facing with the teacher training courses! There are huge challenges. I mentioned in my speech how important it is to have more ways into the teaching profession, which we in the Alliance have put forward requests for, the importance of getting Swedish as a second language into the profession and the importance of having teachers who are well acquainted with using digital technology. It must be included already during teacher training before they enter into operation. Mr President, I would like to I would like to highlight a slightly more boring report concerning the large drop-outs from teacher training. The University Chancellor's Office, UKÄ, has shown that many drop out. You can see, for example, that in the end two beginners in a subject teacher training actually only become one. I have put a written question to the Minister about this where I have wondered what action it intends to take. I got an answer right now, which is why it is perhaps a little unsyst for Gunilla Svantorp, but the interesting thing to read in the answer is that basically every single thing the Minister proposes are measures that were taken already under the alliance government. The fact is that the minister refers to a proposal put forward by the Alliance which was due to enter into force on 1 August 2015, but is now being reviewed. What are Gunilla Svantorp's views and comments on this proposal? Why can it not be opened up to more independent actors to carry out training?
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-378	Mr President, I would like to I suppose it was Helene Hellmark Knutsson who answered the written question, and I cannot comment on the answer when I have not seen it. However, I can say that what Mrs Malmberg has to say is important. I'm sure that's something that's being discussed out at colleges and universities. Of course you don't want to stand with empty seats, especially if there aren't people to pick up because so few people are looking for. What is visible is that in the places where you have started the experiment with training schools there is a greater collaboration between the principals, the higher education institutions and the students. Such a thing can be what makes you feel like you're getting right. I believe that some of those who drop out are those who have gone wrong and are then found in another education at higher education institutions and universities. You shouldn't say they just disappear. They disappear from an important education, but they may be in another important education. Another exciting thing is that those who study the subject learning part of supplementary educational education drop off to a lower degree than those who study regular teacher education programs. Of course, we need to think about that. It is important to remember that it is the task of higher education institutions to analyse why it looks like this. Part of this is that there are too few lessons where teachers from the university participate. Students feel that there is no point in what they do. We need to improve that.
i-HZQKjb3UVWahBo59asDA23	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla Svantorp, for your answer! This is a problem and a challenge. I would like to point out that the Alliance Government acted to make changes. The Alliance government launched a new education. It was we who initiated the training schools. It was we who set up investigations when we saw that the search pressure decreased to, for example, the subject teacher education in comprehensive school. I miss not doing more on the part of the Red-Green Government. Unfortunately, the threat ahead of us is increasing. Then we must intervene in some way. That is why we have proposed, for example, more independent actors. Gunilla Svantorp highlighted the organisation Teach for Sweden, which is doing a fantastic job. But why not allow more people to contribute to development? On behalf of the Alliance, we are making proposals on the KPU, i.e. supplementary educational education for you so that you are not familiar with the concepts, so that more can be completed more quickly and professional as a teacher. We will soon discuss a proposal on the situation of doctoral students in higher education. Here, too, the Alliance government prepared, but the Red-Green Government believes that these students – the most educated academic in Sweden – should have to read as long as those who do not have the long education they have. This surprises me. In my last post, I was on the subject of digital technology. How does Gunilla Svantorp view it? What can we do to modernise teacher training so that teachers are properly equipped in the classroom?
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-388	Mr President, I would like to That's a lot! I don't know how to answer Betty Malmberg's questions. If there is something Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has focused on, it is the school. In the National collection for the teaching profession, the parties and ministers meet to discuss the school with those who directly work in the school. It's extremely important. Then you discuss the right things. You shouldn't say we're not doing anything. We do a lot of things. Not least, we send a lot of money into the school system. That's 3 billion more for the teachers. It's extremely important. As far as Betty Malmberg's question of independent training providers is concerned, we already have 28 graduates today, and we have legislation that says that if you meet the requirements, you can do so. I don't see the problems. Now I cannot put any question to Betty Malmberg, but I shall come back in another debate. However, if the problem is that we want to reduce the requirements for independent training providers, I do not understand it, because we have been discussing quality all along. But let us return to that question. We talk a lot about trust in the profession, in those who work in school. I think we also need to have confidence in teachers at colleges and universities who are working on these issues. We can't go in there and control everything in detail. It is better that we set targets for what we want to achieve. Then we have to question why we do not achieve them instead of telling them that exactly this is what we are going to have. I don't really believe that's how we're going to work.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-393	Mr President, I would like to I've had the privilege of waking up three exercises during exercise, and I'm going to comment on all three of them. I would like to begin with the exercise about a power build-up against mental illness and the high suicide rates. There, the committee refers to the fact that training will be expanded in 2016. I am therefore looking forward to meeting what is proposed in the motion and would therefore like to thank you for that answer. The next exercise is about the development and further development of the media institute Fojo's mission at Linnaeus University. Unfortunately, I cannot be as positive there but intend to come back to the issue. In the end, I have contributed to a exercise about the educational center. There, the committee refers to the 1993 reform of higher education, which involved the decentralisation of education and training planning. It is now 23 years ago. And I can agree with Thomas Strand's reasoning that perhaps it is time to look at the decision taken then and evaluate and upgrade it, because for smaller rural municipalities, the long-term supply of skills is one of the biggest challenges. In many municipalities, business and public actors find it difficult to find staff with the right training. Young people move away to larger cities and to higher education and university places to educate themselves and return to a smaller extent, while it is difficult to attract new immigrants. In recent years, the number of higher education courses at a distance or at a localisation level has decreased, which has accelerated this negative trend. The knowledge and skills gap that is currently being strengthened threatens the growth of rural municipalities as well as the development of society throughout the country. Up to now, educational policy choices have not been able to stem the negative trend. Despite increasing search pressure, higher education institutions find it difficult to respond to the needs of smaller locations due to factors such as urbanisation and generally increased demands on higher education labour market matching. Access to higher education in their own neighbourhood and in relation to the needs of the local labour market is a key factor in social development. Local learning centres have therefore been built in many municipalities. A number of universities and universities have been linked to these, which offer students courses and programmes via distance technology. These programmes are today very popular and provide a good complement to traditional courses at higher education institutions and universities. By being close to people and offering the opportunity to study at home, the opportunity for more people to acquire higher education is spread without having to move. A good example to which I refer is Campus Västervik. It is a learning centre linked to Linnaeus University, University West and Karlstad University. Based on a municipal initiative to meet the needs of the healthcare sector, a nursing education was started here in collaboration with Linnaeus University, the county council and other municipal campuses. For the nursing school at Campus Västervik there are almost 300 applicants to 15 places, and you have to look for the drop-out. We therefore want the government to consider the possibility of giving more higher education institutions and universities the task of developing cooperation with municipal learning centres and other parties to enable higher education throughout the country. In its reply, the committee refers back to the higher education institutions. For me it gets a little weird, because then you're somehow back on square one again. If we do not start sneezing in this thread and try to find the next step, we will always remain in this situation because we can already see – unfortunately, in my opinion – that the universities have a different priority from that of the exercise in this case. I agree with the line taken in this House in the past: why not review and further develop the 1993 reform of higher education, thereby enabling more investment in learning centres? I would just like to call on the members of the committee and any others who are listening to it to be happy to support such an approach. I and several hundred municipalities look forward to that.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-406	Mr President, I would like to This report has dealt with one of my individual motions, and I wanted to talk about it. The background to the exercise I have been thinking and pondering for many years. I attended the Royal Swedish Ballet School, the classic line. And we students talked a lot about this exercise in the breaks and in the evenings, just when we didn't dance. We discussed the reasonableness of having as many educations as we have in Sweden in the field of dance. Each grade has at least 20 to 25 students, and it is not just one class in dance that goes out but there are several. If we were lucky, half of the classes would be hired, and then we counted nicely while we were pondering. In retrospect, we can see that it was very nice to count it. And this is what it looks like in most classes. Anyone who chooses to attend a dance education will not get a post-graduate position. That is the reality of our country. We have different educations depending on what form of dancer we are. I joined the classical line of the Royal Swedish Ballet School, but there is also one in modern dance. Then there is the Ballet Academy, which belongs to the folk high school and which has modern dance and also jazz and musical. The Swedish School of Dance has a bachelor's programme in modern dance. Kulturama educates dancers in modern dance. Dance and musical upper secondary school in Lund is in itself a high school, but they have a dance and musical line. Those who have gone there compete in the same way in auditions as those who have attended folk high school. Mr President, I would like to What I'm trying to find out is that we have a lot of dance courses in Sweden. Every year dancers are trained for unemployment, as there are not enough jobs for all of us, and unfortunately not all dancers are open to re-education. In addition, many choose to drop out of their education precisely because they see no future in the profession. Many choose to attend another education even though they have already attended one. They do so because they have not got a job, because they do not have enough dance technique and because they do not see any hope for the future. It is very sad and regrettable that we are training dancers who will not work as dancers. We need to build an infrastructure with secure jobs for dancers. These efforts make the Swedish Democrats. I know how hard it is not to have a permanent job. I know what it's like to go from a three-day job to a three-week job and then become temporarily unemployed. Maybe you get another week's job before you get out of work again and have to freelance for a month. That's what it looks like to a lot of people. The exercise proposes that the quality of the dance training courses be guaranteed and that there is also a review of the dance training courses.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-415	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the Social Affairs Committee's report on health issues. The report contains no less than about 240 motions for parliamentary years 2014/ 15 and 2015/ 16. 130 of these requests for exercise have been dealt with in the past, and since they are essentially the same, they are dealt with in a simplified way. Since the report covers healthcare in general, it spans many individual issues, and it is difficult, if not impossible, to address in detail all the important issues raised in the report. I will therefore select a few. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of Amendment No 2, but I am of course also fully behind our other reservations. The Christian Democrats were privileged to be responsible for the health sector during the two terms of office we were in government. It is easy to forget what the reality was like before these eight years. It is also easy to forget how much improved in health care during our years in government. We could beat our chests for all the important efforts we made to improve accessibility, short queues and improve the quality of health care. We made huge investments in psychiatry, cancer care and care for chronically ill people. At the same time, however, we see in part the main challenges in the same areas. I would like to congratulate the current government for actually pursuing many of the important efforts we launched. However, there are areas where I am very concerned that the government is not taking its responsibilities and pursuing important things. I am pleased that the committee agrees to make announcements to the government that the government needs to expand its efforts. This involves, among other things, the Government taking the initiative in 2016 to begin work to gather some advanced cancer care to a smaller number of hospitals. There is a lot of work going on to improve equality in healthcare. No matter where in the country you live, no matter who you are and no matter what characteristics you have or do not have, you should have the same access to care. There is probably a total consensus that this should be the case, but how we are going to get there is not always agreed. For us Christian Democrats, it is important that the patient has a strong position and a strong influence on his own care. Sometimes it is also important that we dare to move decisions to where they belong better. With the cancer strategy, which we launched, and national cancer centres, we have improved accessibility, and care for cancer patients has become more equal. But more needs to be done. Larger and fewer regions will bring benefits in several areas, not least in the area of healthcare. But that's not enough. We see that there is a need for government control of hospital care. We also have an announcement that the government should appoint an authority or the national coordinator to make proposals on how to improve prevention against mental illness by using mobile systems. Mental ill-health is one of our biggest challenges in terms of health care. This applies not least to mental illness in children and young people. It is a paradox that in a situation where our common resources are growing and more of our common resources than ever before are invested in health care, more children and young people are feeling worse. Mental ill health is increasing. We look at many different parameters. It is therefore incredibly important that we continue our efforts in this area. We also have an announcement to the Government to commission the Swedish Research Council for Health, Working Life and Welfare to review research on treatment and rehabilitation methods for post-traumatic stress ss yndrom. It is an important area where we see that there is need and is likely to be increased needs, not least given that many of the people who now come to our country have experienced things that cause them to suffer or will suffer from post-traumatic stress syndrome. We need resources to meet that need. Mr President, I would like to Let me also highlight something that the Christian Democrats presented today in their spring budget. It's about the employees in the care. It is the employees in the care who, in the daily meeting with the patient, have the opportunity to provide what is a good care. There are many different categories of employees. We have a challenge in that we will need to recruit many in the coming years, but it is also crucial that we give those who work in healthcare the opportunity to do a good job. One of the things that we see as urgent to invest in is that each category of staff should have the opportunity to do what it is best suited to do. That is why we have proposed a health service team. We provide state resources to ensure, together with county councils, that there are 6,200 new jobs in health care. These persons can do jobs that do not require long medical training, nursing training or other care training. They can do the services that are important to make good care work. It is about the important meeting of patients and everything else around the patient that is needed for good care and good treatment but that does not always need to be addressed by other categories of staff. Other issues relating to the competence of health care are also included in this report. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I will say something about active euthanasia and care in the final stages of life. The growing discussion that we should focus health care resources on ending lives is worrying. It is very easy to understand the anxiety and anxiety many may feel in the face of death. Death cannot be controlled, and it disturbs us humans. We do not want ourselves or any of our close relatives to suffer into death. We want the resources of care to be there so that you have a dignified end in the final stage of life. Then it is incredibly important that we invest our resources in active life aid – that you get the pain relief you need and the opportunity for what is called palliative sedation in medicine, which for a layman is described as the opportunity to sleep in death, in order to avoid the pain and anxiety. There's that possibility, and we're going to take care of it. If we open up the possibility that the resources of care and the working hours and decision-making power of doctors, nurses and other health professionals will be used to determine who is going to die or not, we are moving towards a development that we can see in the few countries where this has been introduced. You start with those you know have only a week or a few days left and allow them. After a few years, it has turned into that even those with mental illness — anxiety and depression — or dementia get someone else to decide if their life is worth living. We should not have this development in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, behind the rest of what we have put forward in the report, but I am not referring to it in the debate today.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-437	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the SoU7 report of the Committee on Social Affairs. It's about exercise around health care. As Emma Henriksson said, there have been some 240 motions on this particular area, which therefore belongs to the areas in the Riksdag that receive the most motions and suggestions. This shows a great interest and commitment to health care and that it is a real cornerstone of Swedish welfare. To feel safe in that health care is there if the disease and ill health affects you and that it is of the highest quality is an essential part of the Swedish model. Swedish healthcare is internationally of very high quality, and it covers all residents of Sweden. Even if you have never paid a crown in tax, you can expect to receive the best care if you need it. Moreover, Mr President, the Swedish people enjoy a great deal of confidence in health care. The vast majority are in favour of the act of solidarity that means paying 10% of their income, because we know that there is a good system that everyone gets. You don't question that. There is therefore much to be afraid of and to protect, and that is what we see in the motion flow that affects our area and which we are debating here today. However, just as the previous speaker said in his speech, Swedish healthcare is facing a number of challenges of different kinds that need to be met with great wisdom and hopefully with broad political agreements as a basis. We need to have a more in-depth discussion on the future financing of care that will be extended to an increasing number as we get older, and at the same time, as we know, healthcare can do more and more in the form of diagnostics, medicines, surgery and other things. We also know that care is not distributed as equally as we would like in our country. The availability and results of healthcare are distributed differently not only on the basis of geographical location but also on the basis of gender or socio-economic affiliation. This is not acceptable in the Swedish model. The national level, together with the heads of municipalities, county councils and regions, must take a much greater responsibility and adapt its governance towards more equal care. Several groups of patients also need to be highlighted, made visible and prioritised as well as those groups of patients, often elderly, who have multiple diseases at the same time and often also have care needs that involve many actors. At the same time, in order to meet future challenges, governance needs to focus on the efficiency and quality of care as well as on coping with skills provision. On these challenges and much more, the majority of the motions we are discussing here today deal with. It is gratifying to note that the Red-Green Government has already addressed several of the things it wants in the motions or continues to work by giving the task of investigating, mapping and remedying many of the other things that have been proposed. Mr President, I would like to Several exercises are about steering towards a more equal care, with maintained or higher quality. It is therefore satisfying to note that the Priority Centre in Linköping is working on its mission to spread knowledge of the very difficult art of making open priorities. It is a work that is necessary to make healthcare more equal at all levels, while transparency of priorities is a guarantee of maintaining confidence in health care. We must never suspect that we are receiving the care we need on grounds other than our human dignity. Many have views on the National Board of Health and Welfare's national guidelines for various diseases. They are a good way forward for a national guarantee of quality and a more equal and knowledge-based care. More disease groups need to be highlighted in the same way as those currently covered by the guidelines. The Agency for Health and Care Analysis has carried out a follow-up of the national guidelines and notes that more needs to be done to achieve better implementation of the guidelines so that they become useful for healthcare professionals and benefit patients. Therefore, it feels good that the government has appointed a special investigator to make proposals on how the guidelines can be used to achieve greater equality in healthcare. Mr President, I would like to Some of the exercises deal with the care of people with chronic diseases. Given that almost half of the population in Sweden suffers from a chronic illness and that people with these conditions often visit the care – they are large consumers – and knowing that 80 – 85 per cent of the costs of the care can be linked to these particular conditions, there is reason to be surprised that the care is not better adapted to the chronics and their needs. Many assessors believe that the development of care around the chronically ill is of the highest strategic importance for us to have a socially and economically sustainable healthcare system. It is therefore satisfactory that the Red-Green Government has agreed with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on efforts to improve the care of people with chronic diseases and thus continue to work according to the strategy developed by the previous government in 2014, with an investment of SEK 450 million on a care that should be patient-oriented and knowledge-based. An important part of the strategy is also a focus on primary care and on prevention and early detection of ill health. The importance of focusing on the chronicles and investing in primary care is further underlined by the government's special coordinator and investigator Göran Stiernstedt in the report Effective Care. It is also positive to note the assignments the Government has given to the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Food Administration to support the strategy in the form of knowledge base and dissemination of information. Mr President, I would like to Cancer is a disease that affects every third person in Sweden. With research and the development of medicines and health care methods, more and more people survive their disease but are not cured, cancer has become much of a chronic disease that often requires extensive and costly efforts. In the latest report from the Swedish Cancer Society, we can read that by 2040 the number of people alive who have been diagnosed with cancer over the past ten years will be over 630 000. There are more than twice as many as today. In the same report we can read and note that the cost of cancer today is about SEK 36 billion and that it is estimated that by 2040 it has risen to SEK 70 billion. We in the committee know that this corresponds roughly to our expenditure area. This, of course, places great demands on both prevention and care. It is essential for the quality of care to have an organisation where resources and skills can be used effectively and where practitioners have the opportunity to develop their skills and skills. Follow-up of healthcare interventions and comparisons of results show that we have an unacceptable inequality in cancer care in our country. The diagnosis of cancer, Mr President, often involves a great deal of anxiety, and it is a major problem that waiting times in cancer care are long and also unequal. It may take a long time between an investigation and a diagnosis and between diagnosis and initiation of treatment. It is also a problem that many patients say that they themselves have to bear a great deal of responsibility for the coordination of their care. Some athletes have drawn attention to these problems. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Government in its 2016 budget has allocated SEK 500 million for interventions in cancer care, as well as the agreement it has made with SKL to increase accessibility and reduce inequality. It is pointed out that level structure of cancer care is necessary. We have heard this for a long time, and it is also underlined by Måns Rosén in his report Training makes perfect. Therefore, there is reason to wait for the compilation of the referrals to that inquiry before the Riksdag makes any decision on the announcement on this matter. Emma Henriksson raised the issue of mental illness. It's just to agree. It's the great scourge of our time. It is very worrying that children and young people feel psychologically ill on such a large scale, and it is a huge concern that it causes so many sick leave. We Social Democrats agree that there is much more to be done here. However, we believe that the announcement of this is to break open doors. The current government prioritises the issue, like the previous government, and has made agreements with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils on support and targeted efforts. We also welcome the appointment of a special investigator to support the work and coordinate it at national level. Skills supply Emma Henriksson mentioned earlier. It is also a major challenge for health care. It is important that we can make the profession attractive and retain the skills that exist today. It is satisfactory that in the 2016 budget, the government has contributed to a professional billion which will enable doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals to be professional in their practice. In his investigation, Göran Stiernstedt points out that it is important for the staff to be professional in their meeting with the patient and should not be governed in detail by either principals or the state. I would also like to take this opportunity to emphasise the importance of the efforts made by the government to meet ill health in the newly arrived Swedes. We Social Democrats also agree with the committee's position on research efforts against post-traumatic stress syndrome. In conclusion, although I know that I have exceeded speaking time, I must take up the good news that the government is giving today – it should also please the exercisers for exercise 49 – that the government is taking an initiative on a legislative proposal that will enable people who have been forced to sterilise in connection with their gender correction to be able to compensate for this. In doing so, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal and support our reservations, but I do not ask for their approval for time to come.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-470	Mr President, I would like to Health care is facing a number of challenges for the future. They require resources and reforms, but also political leadership. It is in the meeting between patients and care recipients and the core of well-being, the staff of care, that every day, across Sweden, quality in health care arises. It is that meeting, that part of the patient's care chain, that we need to further strengthen and provide real conditions for the quality of care to be further strengthened. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates take the health welfare challenges very seriously. We have therefore presented some sixty different proposals for improvement. The Moderates and alliance parties are a little bit pushing the weak left-wing government ahead of them, in that today we will make a number of decisions in which we strengthen cancer care, strengthen mental health care, not least with regard to digital aids, and strengthen post-traumatic stress care. It is a rather weak and willless government that stands empty-handed with proposals to the Swedish Parliament. The bill list does not contain any healthcare reforms required to address these healthcare challenges. In addition, it is quite clear – at the latest for twelve minutes – that the proposals for improvement submitted to Parliament are not good enough for the Social Democrats, but that other proposals are before them. But they have not yet been presented at Parliament's table. These are words, many words from the representatives of the government, as well as words about being a government of cooperation. That should not be shown in words, but in deeds. But here in Parliament we have not seen this document yet. The challenges of health care are too great to do party politics. Let us discuss the substance and the concrete proposals. But then it is also necessary that they come to Parliament. There are several challenges to health care. In today's report there are a couple of hundred proposals that we take a position on. For time winning, I'm going to ask for approval only for reservation 2, but we obviously support all our reservations. Now – in view of the time of this House – I will focus on three challenges, but there are, of course, a great many more. Of course, the first health challenge is that we still have too long waiting times. The Euro Health Consumer Index 2015 also notes that Sweden continues to have some of Europe's longest waiting periods. That is unacceptable. It should also not distinguish between waiting times. For a person who has lung cancer, it also matters that care is provided at the right time. Then it should not distinguish between the county council in Kalmar and the county council in Dalarna. For the individual patient, it is important that the state takes a clear responsibility to continue working to ensure that waiting times are shortened. Heart care is three times as good in Katrineholm, Västervik and Jönköping as in Enköping, for example. That's not reasonable either. Care reforms are needed to address these health challenges. The second health challenge I would like to address, Mr President, is perhaps the most important resource of health care, namely the workers – who stop. We have once again faced the summer challenges in terms of summer bays. You talk about crisis. You close the wards. A fresh start, a new grip, a national approach are needed to strengthen the supply of skills and human resources. It must be done with concrete proposals. It is now being said that over the next seven eight years a couple of hundred thousand new health workers will be required. Then it is not only a question of keeping those who exist and work today, but also of attracting new ones to take an interest in these professions. Deficiency groups such as specialist nurses, biomedical analysts, pathologists and geriatrics are some groups that may need to be put in place an absolutely clear strategy to ensure that they are also supplied within Swedish healthcare and long-term care. There needs to be a national lift around a staff supply strategy, and we need to act nationally to support it. It is about further training, it is about attraction to the profession, it is about career development and so on. But let us discuss the concrete proposals on what this could be like. The third healthcare challenge is, of course, the inequality that exists across the country, where the place of residence still plays a role in what care you receive, what survival you are offered and what it should look like. We must continue to strengthen the patient's right and strength. It must be clear in terms of supervision and open quality registers in order to strengthen the patient's ability to influence tomorrow's health care. Mr. Talma! There are several health challenges, the fewer reforms. Not only are resources needed, but reforms are needed and political leadership is needed to make a difference. It's words, but it's too little action. Let me give you an example. Yesterday, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven visited a successful women's unit – the breast unit at Linköping University Hospital. They have succeeded because they have concentrated care. They have new ways of working, they work with collective competence and they are now number six in Sweden on offering both short waiting times and good quality care. Today, the Social Democrats intend to vote against a proposal to improve, strengthen and concentrate cancer care. There you can clearly see how words are one thing and action another. I, the Moderates and the Alliance believe that we cannot afford to say no to better cancer care when there are good and clear examples that work. We're gonna do so much more. Mr President, I would like to On the government table are now a number of relevant investigations, such as: Effective care, Training provides skills– Concentrate care for the patient's best interests, Ask the patient – New perspectives in complaints and supervision, Next phase in eHealth work, Various pathways to parenting, Safe and effective discharge from closed care, Organ donation – A vital activity. As regards, for example, the investigation into organ donation, most of the consultation bodies agree that there are good proposals. However, we have not seen any proposals at Parliament's table, even though today we have 600 waiting for a kidney and nearly 1 000 waiting for an organ donation in Sweden. The concrete proposals are available and they are subject to consultation. But where are the proposals to make a difference? The Social Democrats continue to reject concrete proposals for improvements to health care in the Swedish Parliament. It is not the manner of the future, nor is it the way to approach the challenges of health care for the future. Mr President, I would like to Words aren't enough. The proposals are there, and now it is time to act. Parliament expects political leadership.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-492	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by saying that Cecilia Widegren and the Moderates see the same challenges as we see in healthcare, and they have existed for a long time. Cecilia Widegren has worked with health care at regional level, just as I have done, and I am sure she will recognise the problems. Cecilia Widegren represents a party that has been in government and has had eight years to address a great deal of this. But the worries remain. That's it. Enough about that. I understood that Cecilia Widegren spoke on a couple of occasions that we need to have discussions on this – perhaps an extended hand and that we can seek consensus on certain issues rather than conflict. Perhaps we need to make that clear. Cecilia Widegren calls for reforms and wants to anticipate the investigations that are on the table with the government. It is not a very serious policy, Mr President. For example, when it comes to Måns Rosén's investigation, Training provides skills– Concentrate care for the patient's best interests, where concentration in care is highly recommended, the referral bodies' response has just recently come in and is being compiled in the Government Office and suggestions will come. I think it is serious to wait for this. Many reforms are needed. But then resources are also needed, and then it is not possible to just propose tax cuts if we are to cope with these reforms. The Moderates' proposed budget for 2016 is 2 billion 130 million lower than the government in terms of proposals. How can we manage all these reforms with only tax cuts and with more than 2 billion less in budget than the government?
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-498	Mr President, I would like to I am really looking forward to Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson hearing from the Government Office for the extended hand when a weak left-wing government needs a mandate in the Swedish parliament to implement health care reforms. Anna-Lena Sörenson will be reminded of this debate. It is clear that we are extremely keen to address these health challenges. Then we must no longer vote against the proposals without actually taking them on. I therefore look forward to the outstretched hand and will gladly return to it. The Alliance parties and the Moderates are happy to take the fight for more resources to the welfare. During our government years, we contributed 57 extra billion to Swedish welfare, including to Swedish health care. We gave priority to health care during our years of government. But we also did something more that this government does not do, namely that we not only talked but implemented reforms to strengthen the patient, to improve the quality of care and to shorten waiting times. It also produced some results. This means that, as Emma Henriksson said earlier, the left-wing government is now implementing parts of these alliance reforms and has continued to do so. One of these is the cancer strategy. But now it is time to take the next step in the cancer strategy, after ten years. Then you cannot say that you have no idea of it yet without going and waiting for what the alliance investigator may find. Wasn't what the Prime Minister yesterday experienced about more concentrated care that has given shorter waiting times for patients good? Was it not good enough for the Social Democrats to be able to say yes to that today?
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-503	Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren addresses the breast cancer unit at the University Hospital in Linköping. I have visited it, and it is an excellent example of how, by concentrating care, patients get a good care chain and effective care. These are exactly the things Måns Rosén points to in his investigation. We are now waiting for what the consultation bodies say about it. Then there will be proposals which I hope will not be overly detailed. This has been developed at Linköping University Hospital. It is the profession itself that has worked this out with the patients. That's about what is required in healthcare. Göran Stiernstedt is very careful to point out in his investigation that the detailed management that the old government engaged in – it did very well, but it was very detailed – is detrimental to professional development and the efficiency of healthcare. We therefore need to see more of professionalism and not of detailed control. Mr President, I would like to Cecilia Widegren describes how much money was invested in welfare. At the same time, however, taxes were reduced by 140 billion. It corresponds to all child benefits, the defense and preschool. That's a good comparison. In addition, we know that the number of people employed in welfare decreased during these eight years of government, from 34 welfare workers per 1 000 inhabitants to 28 welfare workers per 1 000 inhabitants. It is the welfare workers who maintain the welfare. It is the welfare workers and health professionals who ensure that we have a good and effective care that can also be developed when you get to be in peace for detailed control. It is possible to ask for reforms that will come with the help of these solid and good investigations. But you also have to have the resources to provide. It is not possible when you have 2 billion 130 million less than the government in your budget.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-509	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson sees the good experiences that exist. Today, however, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson, together with the Social Democrats, will vote 'no' in Parliament for the good experiences. That is regrettable. It is about transferring experiences so that even more people can get the better health care. Then it is necessary to act, to make it possible. It is regrettable that the words are not related to action. It's a little symptomatic for a government that didn't come in with any kind of health reform. Today they are waiting for consultations – that is what Anna ‐ Lena Sörenson says – from the state investigations that the alliance government set up. But what does this government itself want? What do you want to do to address the health challenges? We will certainly continue to put proposals for improvement on Parliament's table. But nowhere does it emerge what the Social Democrats themselves want to do to tackle the health challenges. Well, you get back to one thing – more resources. I would like to repeat what we did during our time in government. We prioritised new resources for Swedish welfare. It was necessary. But then it also requires more people to be in work, in order for us to have more resources for welfare. That also requires job reforms. You can wait. You can see that. It's possible to start investigations. You can have coffee meetings. But it is only when the proposals come to Parliament's table that there will be a real difference and a real reality. Today, the Social Democrats say no to proposals for improvement. I hope that the Social Democrats will say yes to proposals for improvements in Swedish health care in the future.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-515	Mr President, I would like to In this debate, we will deal with motions and issues relating to health care. It's an area that I feel a little extra for. We Swedish democrats believe that healthcare is a very important building block in society and well-being. A society without equal and accessible high-quality care cannot be called a welfare society. Therefore, we are very concerned that there are reports from many localities around the country that the health care system is very strained. Operations are cancelled, and patients have to wait for care and treatment. In Helsingborg, Skåne, from which I come, cancer operations have been cancelled on several occasions, which is totally unacceptable. We can also see a number of evasive effects because of the large number of recent immigrations of asylum. One example is Blekinge, where 1,300 women had their cell samples postponed because maternal care resources were insufficient. In Blekinge, the number of women enrolled has increased by 10 percent compared with the previous year. Several authorities have also alerted the seriousness of the situation in healthcare. They point out that there are major challenges and problems linked to large-scale immigration. As a result, the resources of the health care system will be difficult to meet. In the National Board of Health and Welfare's report Assessment of the situation in the country, about which the Swedish Agency for Social Protection and Preparedness has been called home, from March this year it is written that the situation is strained. Let me quote: a summary of the analysis carried out by the health services is as follows: 中 At present we see the tip of the iceberg and prepare for the second wave that we believe will be in the form of treatment and follow-up of more chronic diseases (against the acute that we mainly see today) and in the third wave one speculates that habilitation and aids will have a greatly increased load. The latter are those who today do not at all indicate that they have noticed the refugee wave but this care comes at a later stage. ..................................................... It is important that we have that context in the back of our head when we discuss healthcare and that we realise what challenges we will face. The Swedish Democrats will continue to make constructive proposals on how we believe that Swedish healthcare can be improved and further developed. Let me give you some examples of issues that we consider urgent. Every year between 90 000 and 100 000 people die in Sweden. Many of them need palliative care in one way or another. However, access to care at the end of life is unequal across the country. Therefore, the National Board of Health and Welfare has developed national knowledge support for good palliative care in the final stage of life. It's very good, but it's not enough. Palliative care must become more equal across the country. That is why we have proposed a number of concrete measures in this extremely important area. Where in the country you live should not be crucial if you are to receive dignified care in the final stage of life. We believe it is important for the National Board of Health and Welfare to be tasked with drawing up national guidelines for the use of terminal sedation, in order to ensure equal palliative care throughout the country. Today, as I said, there are great differences between different places and hospitals in terms of the palliative care you receive at the end of your life, that is, the relief you get and how you are taken care of. We want to see an expanded palliative care that can help particularly vulnerable patients with symptoms all the way to death. In severe cases, this may involve anaesthetic, so-called terminal sedation. It should not be confused with active euthanasia. Today, the patient can ask for terminal sedation himself, but the doctor will have to approve it. There is certainly a 2010 communication sheet from the National Board of Health and Welfare on what applies to palliative sedation. However, there is still a great deal of uncertainty as to how this care can be applied and what problems this measure poses. It creates unnecessary uncertainty in the healthcare sector as to what is permitted and appropriate treatment to apply. This ultimately leads to arbitrariness and depends on the hospital being cared for. We therefore believe that the National Board of Health and Welfare should draw up national guidelines. Good and dignified palliative care should include an equivalent terminal sedation. Mr President, I would like to Another issue that my party is pushing is the issue of mental illness. It is incredibly important as it affects a large group, both the victims and relatives and the whole society. According to a new progress report from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, which came at the end of March, mental health in Sweden is pretty bad. According to the report, mental illness among the population continues to increase, especially among women aged 16 to 24. An anxiety symptom affects 25 percent of the population at some point in their lives. Despite the general good health of the population, mental illness has increased over a long period of time. Mental ill-health is today one of the major public health problems, and young women are particularly vulnerable. As a result, the use of antidepressants is also increasing. The proportion of young women being cared for for for depression is also increasing. We believe that people with mental illness should have access to equal, knowledge-based and safe care. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. It is therefore important to clarify the responsibilities and obligations of the actors concerned, so that no one falls between the seats. People with mental illness should be helped as early as possible. This applies, in particular, to children and young people who are particularly vulnerable. The organisation of forensic psychiatry is an issue that is also important to pursue. Even there you see huge inequalities. We propose the introduction of a pilot project in some care units. They shall be taken over by the State to be evaluated at a later date. If this project falls well out, we believe that all regional clinics and care units should be run by the state in the near future. Mr President, I would like to The National Board of Health and Welfare has developed national guidelines for a number of diseases and conditions. The intention is that these should be a support for health care, which they also are. However, the problem is that there are significant differences across the country in terms of treatment and care, even though there are national guidelines. The Agency for Health and Care Analysis notes in its report Long way to patient benefit that the national guidelines have to some extent led to more knowledge-based care. But they also note that there is a lack of broad impact and that there are differences in compliance between county councils. What concerns us is that the existing guidelines are not being complied with, which means that health care does not meet the demand for equal care throughout the country, despite the good intentions with the national guidelines. Thus, there are too many differences for it to be possible to claim that Swedish healthcare today offers equal care regardless of where in the country you live. This also applies to diseases where there are national guidelines. We therefore believe that national guidelines should be more binding than they are today so that healthcare is more equal regardless of where in the country you live. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention a few words about the care of people who are residing without permission in this country. We Swedish democrats do not believe that you should expect to have the same access to healthcare as Swedish citizens, if you stay here without permission. So I am talking about people who have had their right to asylum tried, who have been rejected and who refuse to leave the country. We believe that these people should be offered emergency medical care. We also believe that consideration should be given to the possibility of claiming full compensation for the care provided. It is also important to point out here that no one should be denied emergency medical care or medicines because of a lack of ability to pay. On this point, we are not compromising. This isn't really weird. Our Nordic neighbours Denmark, Finland, Norway and Iceland also offer emergency medical care. Finally, I would like to stress that we Swedish democrats are protecting health care. Swedish citizens who need care should receive good, equal and accessible care. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 25 and 26.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-541	Mr President, I would like to We have now listened to representatives of the alliance parties who have described how terribly bad things are in Swedish healthcare – this after eight years of alliance rule and another ninth year of alliance budget that the Red Green Government has tried to manage to the best of its ability. We have also heard that representatives of the Alliance Government expect all problems to be resolved after the first three months of a red-green budget in this area. I suppose that says a lot about the level of debate. I cannot interpret it as anything but that the distance to the outstretched hand only seems to increase for every debate in which we meet. Mr President, I would like to It is not easy to move forward in this area. I would be happy to agree with Anna-Lena Sörenson's speech and thank her for the floor. However, I shall certainly try to fill out a few minutes in this Chamber. The Social Affairs Committee's report 7 is a purely exercise report which deals with many requests for exercise. 130 of these claims have been dealt with in a simplified manner. It is therefore a small number – 110 – that has been dealt with in substance. This report has resulted in 39 different points of decision, for which there are 40 reservations from the opposition parties. There are also two reservations on the part of the red-greens. In these motions, it often gets rather sprawling because health care is such a large area. It addresses issues relating to guidelines for health care, centralisation issues, waiting times and risk assessments. Different staff issues are also dealt with, such as identification requirements and career opportunities. We also deal with questions about specific diagnoses, organ donation, blood donation, mental illness and a variety of other things. In addition, there are purely organisational issues. Many of the issues raised in the motions relate to things that are to some extent being dealt with by the government. In some cases there are ongoing work that is even older than exercise. Some things suggested in the motions have since the motions were written been corrected, among other things, through the agreements that the government has made with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. Only the ongoing work itself is a reason for rejecting many of these proposals, and this is recognised as a long-standing exercise writer here in Parliament. I have been an opposition politician for so long that sometimes I may even find it a little unfair that motions are just rejected. I myself have had many motions rejected with precisely the kind of justification that an investigation has been set up or that some other action has been taken. I can see how it's tricky to be a exerciser. You feel that you have influenced and got it just as he has wanted, or quite a large part of what you have wanted, and yet the exercise is rejected. It feels a little tricky sometimes. Many of the reservations contained in the report are in some way an attempt by the initiator to mark his role in the process. It will also be a way of influencing the continued work. Some of the purpose is to influence how the government will continue to work on this, we have heard here in the debate. This is the first period in which the Green Party is part of a government. For me, who has been a Member for a long time, this is the first time that we environmentalists can see the process from this side. It is actually quite interesting to see how it is handled when you sit on the side that rejects exercise with reference to ongoing work. I think it's very instructive. I can only say that most of the requests in the reservation texts are those that we members on the government side – when we have talks with the Ministry, with ministers and with officials – are actually working on trying to find ways to deal with. I have noticed that there are not very many or very large areas of conflict on the issues raised in the motion requests. So it should be a shorter distance to the outstretched hand. I wasn't going to talk as long this time as I usually do-- I usually get criticism for talking too long. J ag should be very brief and just leave a few comments on a few questions. It is mainly about the investigation into highly specialised care. It has not yet been completed by the government. It has been referred, and there is still some work to be done. When we have been in opposition, we have had to wait for serious and careful management, although we have sometimes criticised the previous government for sometimes being careless and in a hurry. Now we get the same criticism here that we should have done this even before the investigation had even been submitted to the government. We therefore think it reasonable for Parliament to wait for what comes out of the compilation of referrals. You should let the department work on the issue before you come up with comments on how the government should continue to work. When I look back at what it was like when you sat on the other side, I can understand that it may be necessary to say that, but we all want it to be a serious job that leads to good proposals. In fact, it'll take time. Even when it comes to the announcement in connection with exercise 2481, it feels like you are basically breaking open doors. The red-green government has made huge investments in and prioritised the care of mental illness in children. That is what we, together with the landpath, do the most. To formulate requirements for further investments there also feels like breaking in open doors. Of course, I am behind the two motions that my party has been involved in writing, but for time winning, I will not seek their approval. The Green Party is working very hard to ensure that everyone in Sweden will have access to the best possible care, even if we are not directly known for it – this is not our area of profile. We think it is important that care is given on an objective basis and that it is knowledge-based and evidence-based. We think it is important that care is distributed equally according to needs and that those with the greatest need are given priority to care. We are working towards such a development, and we see, of course, that there are shortcomings. Especially after such a long time of alliance politics, there is much to do. We cooperate as a party very broadly with almost all parties around the country in county councils and municipalities. I can't really do this, but I often hear that we are very good at finding collaborations with different party constellations in county councils and municipalities. As someone said before, it is out in reality that it is important that we do something, and we do a lot there. We manage to make agreements within county council operations, municipal operations and SKL. We hope that we in Parliament will also be able to get as far as we have managed to get out in the county councils and that it will be possible to make broad agreements with other parties here as well. If you do not have broad agreements, there is a risk that power shifts will lead to changes in rules that in turn generate the need for new investments and cost searches. Switching from one solution to the other costs a lot of money in healthcare. We very much want broad agreements, long-term decisions and long-term thinking in healthcare. We believe that it is very important for us to reduce costs, but above all for those who need care and not least those who work in healthcare, as well as subcontractors who provide equipment and such things, to feel confident that the rules that are laid down and the principles that we have decreed apply in the long term. This leads to higher quality and better care.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-564	Mr President, I would like to Questions about our health and about the healthcare that should exist when we need to use it for preventive or caring purposes are very important. The issues are quite rightly involved, as this committee's report shows. The heads of health care and its financing and procurement in Sweden are municipalities, county councils and regions, while the parliament and government more firmly lay down your basic principles and rules, allocate a lot of money and coordinate. Very crudely so. Members of Parliament have many views on how health care can be improved. As AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson said, this is one of the areas that engage most in the Riksdag. D is why we are dealing here with a variety of questions from 240 different exercise requests from the general exercise period in the last two years. I am pleased that the committee supports a motion by the four alliance parties that the government under 20-16 should take the necessary initiatives to start work on collecting certain advanced cancers into a smaller number of hospitals in order to improve the quality of care. The background to this is that evaluations show large regional differences in cancer care. By increasing targeted resources and pooling skills, equality and quality in cancer care could be strengthened. Cecilia Widegren refers to good examples from Linköping. There are many of them. In the area of skills provision and personnel issues, the Center Party has two important demands for exercise that I thought I would highlight a little deeper. Unfortunately, the committee has not supported them, because we have reserved ourselves. One exercise is about relay doctors. A relay doctor or a hire doctor is a doctor, usually a general practitioner, who temporarily works at a health centre or other medical unit to fill vacancies that could not be filled with permanent staff. Stafetti doctors often occur in sparsely populated areas. The term refers to the fact that these doctors don't work so long that they create a closer relationship with the patients before they move on to the next place. That's why they cost a lot more. In several parts of the country there are major problems with staffing in health care, which results in county councils being forced to hire relay doctors. It is a necessity to cope with manning and is increasingly present. The consequence is high costs and lack of continuity for patients. The frequent use of hire doctors is actually a threat to quality and creates uncertainty for patients. In many health centres using relay doctors, they are replaced at short intervals. This can have serious consequences, such as a lack of coordination and a skewed medicinal product. Although the issue has been discussed for many years, no effective measures have been presented to reduce the cost of relay doctors. Clearly, it takes effort to achieve change. Due to the lack of a permanent employer responsible for the development of skills, the Center Party wants to review the possibility for relay doctors to demonstrate through regular knowledge testing that they meet the requirement for regular training. Our second exercise and reservation is about national coordination of specialist medical skills. The lack of specialist doctors is a problem that is growing in line with the large retirements that are now taking place. Especially in the sparsely populated parts of the country, the shortage of specialist doctors is becoming more evident. Although medical training has been expanded with more places in recent years, the problems persist. The Center Party therefore believes that the state must take a clearer responsibility for planning and coordination regarding the need for doctors. That is why we believe that the government should give the S ocial board the task of establishing a national coordination that assesses the supply and demand of doctors. These two questions I have gone into a little deeper. Otherwise, as the debate has shown, the report deals with many very important issues, such as mental illness and end-of-life care. Other points have been raised by other speakers. We will come back to these issues in various contexts in the future. I support the committee's proposal in report t on the many points on which the Center party has no reservation. I also support the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation No 20.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-577	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, Staffan Danielsson holds a tone that promises a great deal in terms of the possibility for us to find broad consensus solutions. It feels like we have a common foundation of values when it comes to healthcare and its important role in the Swedish model. In his speech, Staffan Danielsson talks about relay doctors and the challenges and concerns that the need to use relay staff of various kinds brings. My idea is that this is reflected in the fact that county councils and regions need better support and better resources. I have to ask Staffan Danielsson how it is compatible with tax cuts, which are in fact what the Center Party is proposing in terms of welfare, and a reduction in health care resources of 2.48 billion. It remains to be explained. I think Staffan Danielsson's speech contains very good things. Like I said, we agree on a lot of things. But how is everything to be paid? Staffan Danielsson then spoke about the concentration of cancer care, which we also support. But we would like to wait seriously for the investigator. The investigator is careful to say in his report that it will be very difficult to implement if we do not get a regional classification with fewer regions, a level structure of cancer care and a concentration in hospitals. My question is: is Staffan Danielsson prepared to work in the Alliance to ensure that we have a regional division, which is a prerequisite for such a concentration to occur?
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-582	Mr President, I would like to Regionalisation may be at the frontier of today's debate. My view is what the Center has advocated. It has bearing on a good health care that often requires more resources. Sweden needs a reform that brings fewer and larger regions. This allows you to manage your affairs in a larger area and draw power and influence from Stockholm to the regions. I really hope so myself. We are both politicians from Östergötland. Östergötland may seem to be a large region, but we are much smaller as a region than Skåne and Västra Götaland. We see that there are more opportunities to manage their commitments there. I hope that there will be regional reform during this term of office. I think this is important for health care, among other things. Sweden is a rich country in the north of Europe. We are a welfare country, and we have a good health care that we very much agree on. Then we need to improve it. There are shortcomings, and we are discussing them here today. What provides resources for healthcare is growth in Sweden, competitiveness and companies that meet the growing challenges of competition on the world market. Sweden is one of the countries in the world with the highest taxation of labour. It may hamper our growth. That is why it was necessary to reduce taxes for ordinary people with job tax deductions. I have not seen any proposals from the Social Democrats to tear this up, but we are right to agree that it was necessary. Above all, what provides resources for health care is when tax revenue increases and when jobs increase. In this way, we can get more resources in municipalities, regions and county councils and at state level. That's what we got during the alliance years.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-587	Mr President, I would like to It is satisfactory to hear that Staffan Danielsson supports the proposals for regionalisation. I also hope that he will work for it in an alliance context so that we have a broad consensus on it. It is a prerequisite for us to be able to complete the level structure of not only cancer care but also highly specialised care so that we can guarantee equal care of the highest quality to all inhabitants of the country. Staffan Danielsson talks about the importance of growth for well-being and the development of welfare. Of course it is. It is then fun to note that Sweden is currently doing well. It's over 4% growth. I believe that we are the sixth country in the world in terms of growth, and unemployment is falling. It may then be appropriate to hear about Staffan Danielsson during the work for a new budget this autumn will work towards more resources for the welfare area and, above all, for health care. The previous government reduced taxes by 140 billion. As a result, we have far fewer people working in welfare and in publicly funded care today than we had in the pre-alignment period in 2006. As I said, a sum of 140 billion is equivalent to child benefit, preschool and defence.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-590	Mr President, I would like to We have a region reform for Skåne, Stockholm and Västergötland. They have large, modern and powerful regions. Now it is the rest of Sweden that we are discussing. There is a law, and it is now under discussion. We will see where the final proposal lands. There could be adjustments. Perhaps some region can manage to fight for a special treatment. We'll see about that. However, the need for reform and for it to be decided during this parliamentary term is my view. I usually say that I am 68 years old and have been discussing this issue for a long time. I don't want to be discussing it for another ten years. It doesn't make much sense if you don't get shot at every once in a while. We should be able to do that. Sweden is doing great now. Jan Lindholm gave the answer to why Sweden is doing well. It is eight years of successful alliance policy and a ninth year of alliance budget that blooms in very good conditions. I hope that the current government can manage this. I am concerned that the proposals lead a little in the wrong direction. But I am naturally pleased that Sweden is doing well. We have major challenges in different areas, and so on. Again: Sure, taxes for ordinary people in Sweden have been reduced by 140 billion so that we are not number one but perhaps third in the world in high tax pressure. The Social Democrats were against all these tax cuts. But I haven't seen any government proposals for their restoration. We agreed on the budget we have. Through tax cuts for people and companies, Sweden is doing well. It also provides increased resources for health care and so on. It's like a spell, Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson, that I'd like to discuss more deeply with you later.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-595	Mr President, I would like to How do we build equal care? How do we create everyone's right to health? This also applies to the groups that are furthest away. This debate must be linked to the efforts made by the government together with the Left Party during the current term of office. We are talking about free mammography in maternity care, mental health, free contraception and targeted efforts to reach those women who have worse than average health. Health is so much about class and gender. The Left wants to highlight equal health, a feminist health care, because women generally have worse health, specifically if they have short education. We are proud of the issues we have negotiated in this area. This applies specifically to the 10 billion that go to welfare and that are now also falling into health care. It's necessary. The former Alliance can present fantastic movements in opposition. They chose in government to invest in tax cuts of 140 billion. No welfare is built, and no equal care is built. Now I highlight our exercises and choose the exercises that are about mental health, genital mutilation and transgender people. These are issues that have a bearing on stigmatization, guilt and shame. Let's get rid of it. The number of people who kill themselves is more than three times the number of people killed in traffic. Almost 1,500 people kill themselves every year. There are 3 - 4 suicides per day. There are 150 young people under the age of 24 who kill themselves in Sweden every year. It makes suicide the most common cause of death in that age group. There are about ten close survivors who get the difficult, traumatic news that someone close to them has taken their own life. Support for relatives is extremely important in preventing suicides among relatives. Today, it is almost a coincidence if a loved one receives help and support. A national support programme for survivors needs to be developed for those who have taken their own lives. Mental ill health is increasing. A lot of people have already talked about that in this room. It affects young women specifically, but also men. Mental ill health can affect anyone. Young and old, women and men, people of different ethnic backgrounds, people of different social backgrounds – everyone can suffer from mental illness or illness, and this can have lifelong consequences. Mental illness accounts for more than a third of health insurance costs. That's quite a lot. Together with the government, the Left Party has presented a major mental health initiative aimed at young people. I'd like to remind you of that while we're in this room. Sweden has ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It clearly states that the best interests of the child should come first in all actions involving children. Children should not risk being treated differently depending on where in the country they happen to live. It's happening today. Nor is it reasonable for children to be cared for together with adults, as they do today because legislation does not distinguish between children and adults in coercive measures. Not all county councils currently have inpatient care places in children's and young people's psychiatry, and this means that children and young people are sometimes cared for with adults. The government should investigate how children's and young people's rights in forced care are taken into account. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. I request the approval of reservation 13. Forced care can be necessary and vital but is also a major interference in the privacy of the individual. Voluntary care is what should primarily be used for as long as possible. However, the user organizations today testify and tell us that there is a strain in psychiatry. It is important that patients are informed that decisions on coercion can be appealed. At all, patients in psychiatry need to be upgraded. It's about the whole psychiatry thing. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare estimates that approximately 38,000 girls and women in Sweden have been exposed to genital mutilation. It leaves an extremely deep mark on girls and women. 2 million girls a year are sexually stymied in the world. It has tremendous consequences for their lives — physical suffering after an abuse involving safeguarding the virginity of girls. The National Board of Health and Welfare has mapped out the knowledge about female genital mutilation that exists in primary care and other parts of healthcare. I'm afraid it's not on top. It has also looked at the conditions for staff to work preventively against female genital mutilation and to respectfully treat girls and women who have been subjected to the surgery. Norrköping has worked well and progressively with the question. This means, among other things, that staff working in school and school health care receive special training. In this context, 60 students have been found in Norrköping who have been genitally grafted. It does not ask individual girls whether they have been sexually grafted, but instead asks all girls of a certain age group if they have been subjected to various types of abuse. That's how you get the knowledge. No one should feel stigmatized. Training on genital mutilation must also provide knowledge of sexuality so that women who have been subjected to genital mutilation can achieve the highest possible sexual health. The Government should instruct the appropriate authority to develop guidelines for training on genital mutilation for health care, school and school health care personnel. In 2015, the largest study on transgender people's life situation was presented so far. It was a depressing reading. Every third trans person has considered taking their own life in the last year. Every other trans person has been subjected to harassment in the last three months and avoided daily activities due to fear and discrimination. Sweden is still a country where the price is high for those who challenge norms for gender and gender expression. The standards are also visible in the legislation. Sweden is a country with archaic rules that create problems in transgender everyday life, cement conservative norms and create ill-health. In fact, countries such as Colombia, Ireland and Nepal are in part more advanced than Sweden when it comes to the legal rights of transgender people. Maybe you didn't think so. It is quite embarrassing for Sweden. We can do better. The process of changing legal sex and obtaining sex-correcting care is complicated. It is long waiting times, unreasonable demands and sometimes lack of response that create just ill health. Argentina and Malta have abolished all requirements for assessing legal sex. The Left Party wants to go the same way. Let each individual decide his or her own legal sex, and make changing legal sex a common administrative issue! We also need to abolish the current 18-year limit for changing legal sex and gender-correcting care. It must be the individual's needs that govern who is to receive care and who needs it. A modern gender law based on reality is what Sweden needs. Until 2013, transgender sterilized persons were forced in Sweden. This means that more than 800 transgender persons were coercively sterilised under previous legislation. Forced sterilization of transgender persons is still an open wound and has caused great suffering. A first step should therefore be to give Sweden's transgender people an official excuse and compensation. And this morning it came, so well timed that I could not have made it better myself: City Council Wikström proclaims a change of law from 1 July 2018 that opens the door for this. It is a victory for all the organisations and parties working on the issue. We in the Left always go ahead, however. I therefore urge the Riksdag to support the motion that the Government should ensure that a public apology is given to transgender sterilised persons and that the Riksdag announces this to the Government. I'm in favour of reservation 41. For time-winning, I do not support our other reservations, but I still support them.
i-d454521ebce7ebcd-616	Mr President, I would like to This is a motion report that spans healthcare. I intend to take up two motions that the Liberals are behind and then come up with a more general view of the governance of health care with the three principals – the state, county councils and municipalities – involved. The first motion can be found in reservation 27 under paragraph 24, which I support. The other reservations that the Liberals have written, I do not support them, but of course we support them. Reservation 27 is about the dignified end for year-long people living in nursing homes or special accommodations. This applies, of course, to people in health care in general as well. The Medical Association has set ethical principles for securing self-determination in people who are about to end their lives. This is used to some extent in the health care system itself. It is available in palliative care, which unfortunately is not fully expanded and fully filled throughout the country. But there is much more to be done in the care of the elderly and elderly, especially in nursing and care homes. When you come to such accommodation you are very ill and need a lot of care. Then it is important that the staff ascertain how Anna or Gustav wants it during their time there and how they view the healthcare, care and healthcare they are offered. Do they want it, or do they want to turn it down and perhaps content themselves with good care? This requires knowledge from the staff about the care and care that can be provided in the accommodation. You should not send these very fragile people to the emergency room when you could give care and care just as well in the housing. There should be access to doctors and nurses with the necessary training. It also requires the training of relatives as to what can be offered in the accommodations so that they do not panic and call for an ambulance themselves because they think it will be better in the emergency department. This is what we would rather have a government inquiry into. Government investigations and then decision-making at national level, by the Riksdag, become a much more powerful sender than general advice and such. The second exercise I mention is the one that I am happy to see has landed in an announcement. It is about getting more knowledge about how we best help people who have been victims of torture and war events and who will develop so-called post-traumatic stress' yndrom. The Red Cross and some others have made fantastic efforts here, but they are calling for evidence-based treatments themselves. These are missing, even internationally – I have tried to dive deep into the literature. It is therefore very satisfying that there is now an announcement. Then I would like to make more general comments. Governments, regardless of their colour, have tried to increase equivalence, equality, in health care. From here we have tried to strengthen the state's influence and the coordination of efforts. The Liberals have been a driving force for both government and opposition. But when it comes to the impact of national governance as the government and parliament want, it has gone like that. The latest example, which we had up for debate the other week, was our law on assisted reproduction for single people that is now stuck at county level. From the county councils' point of view, the government's governance is sometimes at odds with their local governance. The same applies to regions and municipalities. This leads to an unwanted double command. I have heard county council say that this government money is poisoned money that controls the business they have planned in the wrong direction. This creates problems, not least for patients. I think that is clear in the report. The ideas of many of the movements have come not directly from us MPs but from citizens who send us documentation for exercise. Then we write exercise to highlight the problem. It is clear that the senders express disappointment when the whole thing is turned off. I try to comfort them with 99 percent of the exercise in this house being rejected, but that we are working to ensure that their wishes are met in other ways. What we in the Liberals have landed in is that we need a broad and unconditional discussion on how the governance of health care is to take place. We see an opportunity for government governance, but it must be carried out after very thorough investigation and review of how things have gone in Denmark and Norway. We must get a good distribution of responsibilities in order to use our resources properly. Here are Göran Stiernstedt, Måns Rosén's and other investigations included as very important parts. I have some understanding of the delay in certain proposals, because these investigations are connected. If you hurry too fast and go to the decision about one of them, it may not be true when going to the decision about one of the others. So one signal to the government is to go through where these investigations hook arm. Maybe you've already thought about that.
