i-RGdejWgUe89J2Pgp4D7nyM	Mr President, I would like to The report we are dealing with today is called MJU17 and is entitled "Sanction fees for operators in the fisheries sector other than fishermen etc." In addition to the government proposal with the same name, it also contains 30 demands for exercise from the general exercise period and eight reservations. It is about fishing in general and small – everything from eel management and aquaculture to competitiveness and the use of tools. These are famous subjects for the committee, and we have discussed them in this House quite diligently, including last year when a nearly identical report, MJU6 Fisheries Policy, was discussed. Since then, the government has offered almost nothing but silence on fisheries issues, which has to be borne in mind. Mr President, I would like to Fisheries policy is important for Sweden and for the European Union. As a moderate Member of Parliament, I believe that the reform of the common fisheries policy that came about at EU level during the time of the alliance government was an important step. Without it, overfishing would have been allowed to continue. In just a few years an entire Swedish profession had seen the networks become increasingly empty until one would finally have to look around to sell their boat. Biodiversity had continued to decline at the same rate, and ecosystem disruptions had been significant. Now the reform is complete. The bottom plate is so to speak fixed. That's good. However, one key challenge remains: the Red-Green Government must now act decisively in order for the new regulatory framework to be implemented in all Member States without unnecessary regulatory uncertainty and different interpretations contributing to distorted competition. If the fishing industry is to be able to live, develop and thrive, strong fish stocks are needed. This leads not only to good food on the plate but also to biodiversity and ecosystems in balance. To achieve this, long-term multi-annual management plans are needed. In view of this, I would like to support reservations 1 and 3 on viable stocks where this is further developed. Mr President, I would like to Eel management should also be specifically mentioned. Maybe it would be misconduct not to. I have looked back at the fisheries debates in Parliament in recent years, and the eel administration has been the most discussed issue – by a good margin. I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that we are now seeing more eel in our waters. The eel is increasing in the North Sea and in Europe. Here in Sweden there has been a general ban on eel fishing since 2007. I believe that the general ban must be maintained if we really want to ensure the survival of the eel and the viability of the stocks. However, with that said, eel administration is not a ready-made policy area. There are still a handful of fishermen authorised by the Maritime and Water Authority to fish eel. This crowd is declining rapidly and risks disappearing, despite the fact that there is a rich culture of eel fishing, despite the fact that eel fishing can contribute to livelihoods and jobs and that eel fishing can be an important component of the archipelago's development. This is because we in Sweden have said no to generational change for eel fishermen in a rather unique way. Those who grew up in a family business that has fished eel are unable to take over the fishing permit. It should be said that it is far from everyone who longs to take over their parents'jobs. It's not a law of nature, so to speak. Changing this and enabling generational changes for small-scale fishing would both instill confidence in the future and ensure that both culture and knowledge can be preserved. In addition to the general ban, increased efforts on access routes at hydroelectric plants and multi-annual management plans, this should not be an impossible equation. This should be the responsibility of the government to at least review. Mr President, I would like to There is, of course, a proposal in this report as well. Much of what is included in that bill is nothing strange. Swedish legislation needs to be updated with reference to the Treaty of Lisbon and the reform of the EU's common fisheries policy. The Swedish law on EC regulations is updated. The real change resulting from the proposal concerns infringements committed after landing of the catch. They move from the criminal justice area to a system of fines. It is a reasonable change, but it raises some supplementary questions. This is the first proposal that the government leaves concerning fisheries policy, despite the fact that the government parties have previously had quite high tails on many issues. There is therefore reason to ask: When will the next bill come? Consider some examples. What does the government really think about the future of bottom trawling? The Green Party has said before that they want a total ban without exception, but now it is silent about it. What does the government think about the future of aquaculture in Sweden? The Minister for Rural Development has said that he wants to develop it, but the food strategy, where aquaculture is only a small part, is greatly delayed and not rooted in the rest of the parties. I am convinced that in today's debate more will be mentioned in the Third Country Agreements. It would be interesting to know how the government wants to change them in concrete terms. What we have seen so far in the EU Council has not been a new policy. Mr President, I would like to It is perhaps a good thing that the government does not go forward with the promises made by, for example, the Green Party in the meantime in opposition. But doing nothing feels particularly weak. Instead, the government should take up where the Alliance ended with continued focus on regulatory simplification, long-term instruments and international cooperation. I am proud of the reforms that came about during the time of the alliance government, but at the same time I am convinced that the Alliance was not finished. There is a need for more regulatory simplification, not new charges. If this focus persists, then we can continue to enjoy healthy fish on the plate from profitable fishing in sustainable stocks. That should be the objective of the fisheries policy.
i-M3CPavQsN9JTnaoXgeacqc	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, I would first of all like to endorse our reservation No 5 on competitive fisheries and No 6 on eel management. Mr President, I would like to When we talk about fishing in Sweden, we talk about Swedish culture and tradition with fishermen who have several generations of fishing experience behind them. Here we can talk about having fishing in the blood. These are the people who live in the countryside today near the sea or the lake in what we call the archipelago. But there has been a dramatic development in terms of fishing in Sweden. The number of fishermen and boats has decreased drastically. In 1980, for example, we had 40 fishing boats in Blekinge County, and today there are 4 remaining. The aim of Sweden's democrats is to work within the framework of market economy principles and sustainable use of fishing waters to preserve a viable Swedish fishing industry. It is in the nature of the matter that fishing must be regulated, but at the same time we must work towards reasonable conditions for individual traders when, for example, EU legislation is implemented. We believe that the HaV, the Maritime and Water Authority, needs to work to a greater extent for proportionate penalties for fishermen who do not behave properly. It is also important that we work against the so-called flagging-out of Swedish fishing vessels. The same rules must apply to all fishermen, regardless of country. Sweden has one of the hardest legislations of all the countries around the Baltic Sea. As a result, Swedish fishing is competitive and jobs and tax revenues are transferred to other countries. Our fisheries policy should be fair. It is one of the cornerstones of a good fisheries policy. Fishermen around the Baltic Sea must be able to compete on equal terms. Unfortunately, this is not the way it is today. Mr President, I would like to In the case of aquaculture, the removal of wild caught fish is, by nature, limited. However, Sweden has very good conditions for food fish production – that is, fish farming – especially in the northern parts where the nutrient-poor regulatory warehouses around the hydroelectric power plants are located. Fish farming in these waters can be a way of re-creating, for example, viable ecosystems, since it feeds these generally low-nutrient waters. We want to facilitate the establishment of new fish farms and improve the conditions for existing farms to expand. In addition, HaV should investigate which lakes and watercourses may be suitable for fish farming. We want to review the costs for traders in the industry and how these costs can be reduced. For example, it can contribute to better conditions, for example by reducing supervisory fees, which in some cases are significantly higher than for other activities requiring environmental permits. Mr President, I would like to Recreational fishing, or the so-called sport fishing, is an important part of the recreation and relaxation of many Swedes. Recreational fishing has great potential to contribute to employment, living countryside and biodiversity. At the same time, the conflict of interests between small hydroelectric plants and recreational fishing should not be ignored. Recreating hiking routes for fish in small and medium-sized watercourses, for example, involves considerable investment costs. Much of the flora and fauna established over centuries by human activities live in and benefit from the very conditions of the hydroelectric dams. And the ponds contribute to important environments for recreation and a rich outdoor life. At present, different funding options could be to obtain funds from, for example, the rural development programme, the EU Fisheries Fund, the local nature conservation effort and so on. We therefore propose in our motion that an investigation be set up on how investment aid can be coordinated for sport fishing and recreational fishing and how to facilitate fish migration. Mr President, I would like to In 2007, a general eel fishing ban was introduced in Sweden. The regulation allowed the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to allow fishing for exemptions through so-called eel fishing permits. From 2012, the ban was extended so that all eel fishing on the west coast was banned, which allegedly affected about eighty eel fishermen. Based on current eel stocks in the Baltic Sea, the stock is affected by the current fishing activity of around 2%. Today's holder of eel fishing permits risks becoming the last Swedish eel fishermen. This is because, unlike what is otherwise customary, they cannot transfer their businesses and the necessary licences to engage in eel fishing to another person or company. That's completely unreasonable. It's a form of trade ban. The situation also risks leading to the fact that today's eel fishing companies can hardly continue when the permits expire. The measures taken by EU Member States to improve the eel stock have had positive effects. In recent years, the glass eel migration to Europe has increased sharply, as has the eel formation in southern Sweden. Today, eel fishing is heavily regulated by, for example, the requirement for an eel fishing permit. The very limited eel fishing conducted today can be considered sustainable in the long term. It also provides important jobs in rural areas. The unique eel culture provides important income to, among other things, the tourism industry. A continued ban on eel fishing could thus break a multi-hundred-year cultural heritage tradition that has roots in the Middle Ages. When it comes to this, it may be interesting to reconnect with what Jesper Skalberg Karlsson said when he spoke before me. You talk about the desire to preserve eel fishing, but it is strange that you do not raise any motions or leave any reservations on the matter. Only our party has left a reservation on the matter. It would be interesting to hear whether the Alliance has any concrete proposals. Mr President, I would like to Fishing is a prerequisite for a living coast and archipelago. When we promote small business and maintain small-scale inland and coastal fishing, we will have a living cultural heritage. These are important values to preserve. Some of these values are now at risk of being lost if we do not have the opportunity to engage in inshore or eel fishing. New and local young fishermen are not given the opportunity to support their family by having their business in our archipelago. A comprehensive approach to management and fishermen can produce interesting results. For example, Kosterhavet National Park is a large-scale experiment that tests local and fully integrated maritime management. It is a board with strong local representation from community associations, fishermen, politicians and researchers, based on mutual respect and trust. There is a vision where the long-term sustainability of its own marine resource is a cornerstone. One might ask whether it is not such a future maritime governance that we are going to work with. It becomes a bigger perspective, and the work is driven by the actors. Mr President, I would like to Fishing depends on biodiversity and sustainable fishing where we conserve the resources of the sea. The viability of fishing and aquaculture is a prerequisite for living rural areas. The conditions of rural areas and rural communities are therefore at the heart of our policy.
i-59fdffdb05466285-36	Mr President, I would like to As I see it, there is a heavy responsibility on the current red-green government. What's the responsibility? Yes, it is the responsibility to implement what we have agreed. In the European Union, we have agreed on two important things in recent years, namely the EU Fisheries Control Regulation and a Common Fisheries Policy. In this, for example, is that we should have a discard ban. This means that you must not throw caught fish overboard; it must be landed, exploited and used. To start with something positive, it is satisfactory, even good, that we have finally received a proposal on which we can take a decision today. It is about the proposal on penalties for operators in the fisheries sector other than fishermen. But that is not enough, Mr President. I believe that Sweden has lost the leadership shirt that we had in the area of fisheries before. Why is it important for our voice to be heard in Europe? For I do not believe that our voice is heard in Europe anymore. Yes, it is important for Europe's waters. It is important for our inland Baltic Sea. It's important to the fish. This is important for fisheries. This is important for biodiversity. And it's important to the jobs. It is strange, then, that today, one and a half years after what we have agreed in Europe has entered into force, there are strong indications, even evidence, that the control of the draft ban I mentioned earlier is inadequate, even bad. The ban is not being complied with in the manner in which it was intended. There are suggestions on how to address this problem. But the government remains passive. Something has to be done. What, then, must be done? To begin with, the government must show interest in these things. I do not think that is the case. You have to get involved, otherwise nobody listens to what we say from the Swedish side when decisions are to be made and the position is to be made in Brussels and elsewhere. In addition, a little money is needed to get things in place. This is missing. It is therefore very quiet from the government in this area, which I regret. I do it perhaps most of all for the reason that was once, and we in Sweden very much agreed on that. The reason was that the Baltic Sea and Baltic Sea fisheries could be used as a model for the whole of the EU's fisheries policy. But it is not possible if there is no further commitment. Why is this so important now? Well, because the fish know no boundaries. Cross-border cooperation is therefore a prerequisite for good fisheries management and also for the biodiversity that we want. As I see it, Mr President, Sweden must take on board the challenge of a majority in order to be able to take the necessary decisions and make the necessary positions so that, in future too, we can maintain and develop the jobs that exist in and around fisheries, so that we can maintain and develop the biodiversity that exists in and around our seas. I think this is a matter of great urgency, and for this reason, Mr President, I too am in favour of reservation 3.
i-59fdffdb05466285-45	Mr President, I would like to Now we are again discussing fishing. We usually come back to a lot that we have dealt with before. But when we discuss fishing, there is a starting point, and that is that we have functioning ecosystems in viable fish strains that can produce results. That is, of course, what we are aiming for whether we are discussing healthcare management or something else. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 3, which deals precisely with viable fish stocks, where we want to pay particular attention to the link between viable fish stocks, the Water Activity Investigation proposal and the implementation plan under the Water Directive. Both the Civil Committee and the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture have previously discussed households with land and water areas in the area of water management. There are two announcements, so the government has a responsibility to deal with this. It is, of course, linked to the viable fish stocks of, among other things, migratory fish such as eel and salmon. The government is responsible for addressing this issue. As I said, I request the approval of reservation No 3. Mr President, I would like to The proposal we have to deal with here on fines for other operators in the fisheries sector and fishermen, yes, what about it? I guess it's good that the bill comes now. It is highly reasonable that all other actors take responsibility for data obligations and labelling requirements. It cannot just lie on the fishermen in the first line. There are no opposing views. Now there is a common fisheries policy within the EU. During the alliance government, Sweden was very driven to get it in place, and there is a lot of positive in that policy, as has also been mentioned here before. Much is now governed by this common fisheries policy, but there is, of course, room for some national measures. We return quite often to the fact that we still want to stand up for coastal and small-scale professional fishing, and it is also strongly linked to a vibrant countryside. In order to achieve this, dialogue between the actors involved is absolutely essential. The fishing industry, we politicians, scientists and also the authorities must be involved in the dialogue. Much is about having the same picture of reality and not least sharing each other's knowledge and experiences. There are very many constructive solutions that can be found, but usually conflicts can arise in that discussion only because of pure misunderstandings that are due to talking past each other. It is one of the things for which everyone is really responsible, not least the government and the minister responsible. What is now at the heart of the reform is to start with management plans. Sweden should push for multi-annual management plans and, not least, multi-species plans in the waters in question. There is a discard ban that has gradually been introduced in the EU since 1 January 2015. It is a problem where both the government and the authority have a responsibility for this to work. This is also an area where dialogue is extremely important. There must be a long-term system that is widely accepted by all actors in the field. There must be no incentive to cheat in the system. Then there will be great uncertainty. Noticing that doing right does not pay off is almost the worst thing that can happen in a system of this type. There is an authorisation to the government to introduce transferable fishing rights in individual fisheries and another authorisation to introduce it also for other fisheries. This is an instrument that has been correctly used can be very good. This can only happen in a very close cooperation with the fishing industry itself to make it work. There are constructive discussions on this. It is important to have a broad focus on this issue. What was also started under the alliance government and worth mentioning here is the development of selective tools. Jesper Skalberg Karlsson brought up bottom trawling. It is an issue that has been recurring since before. It is not black or white here, but the development of gears is very important, not least in terms of the selectivity of the gears. It is important that the efforts made are followed up to see if they have had the desired effects. Then let me say a few words about aquaculture. It is also an area to which we will come back. We are talking about great potential, and now there is an action plan on administrative simplification, planning, environmental and socio-economic sustainability and strengthening competitiveness. Nevertheless, things are progressing rather slowly. One can look with some interest at the aquaculture that is fully developed on land, i.e. with land-based closed systems. It does not have the environmental impact on watercourses and the sea. It develops in some places, and I find that particularly interesting. Then I can see that there are many other things that are very good. West Coast mussel farming makes double use of it. It produces both food and catch crop in the sea. Mussel farming has also been developed as an important part of the tourism industry. It can serve as an excursion and a dining experience. The Ålförvaltningen has also been raised. It is a very complex issue that can, of course, be discussed. After all, the starting point is that it is a species that is threatened, that is the problem. We must ensure that the hiking routes of the eel are also safe, so that responsibility does not fall solely on professional fishing. Otherwise, professional fishing for eel is clearly under threat in the future. One gets the feeling that, precisely for fishing for eel, there is only one decommissioning plan. That is not how we want it, but also how fishing can develop. It is clear that fish should be picked up and the industry should be supplied with raw materials. But we must also note that this is a very important part of rural development in many parts of the country along our coasts. It is not least linked to the tourism industry, the interest in locally produced food and so on. Fishing is extremely important in large parts of the country. We must also include this in the discussion. It's not just about producing directly. It also has a lot of side effects.
i-KkiZy3vdgx8uwUM5edZGuH	Mr President, I would like to I call for the Alliance's joint reservation 3 to be approved in the committee's report. Cod, eel and salmon are threatened in different places by various environmental problems such as overfishing, hiking obstacles and marine litter. We want the fish stocks of the Baltic Sea and the Western Sea to be viable and to be able to eat the fish that is being fished here without fear. Achieving a long-term result requires work on generational and environmental quality objectives, an effective government structure and governance. Particular attention should be paid to this in the context of the Water Activity Investigation proposal for amended water law rules and the implementation of the WFD action programmes. Account must be taken of different social interests, and the objectives concern several authorities. What has been said here should be supported and announced to the government. Mr President, I would like to Fishing is an ancient industry conducted with the sea, lakes and streams as the central resource for many millennia. In addition to the socio-economic importance, fishing is also a piece of the puzzle in Sweden's food supply. Recreational and sport fishing is a broad interest in large parts of the Swedish people. It is important that both professional and recreational fishing can coexist. The interests of both fishermen and recreational fishermen and coastal populations must be taken into account. It is essential that the profitability of fishing activities does not deteriorate. Christian Democrats want living archipelagos with space for accommodation, business and tourism. I would like to agree here with Mrs Tysklind on the importance of dialogue between different parties, authorities, parties and politicians in order to obtain a consensus and an understanding of what is being done. Fishing cannot be decoupled from marine environmental policy. The seas and watercourses are sensitive ecosystems where the different species have important roles. If a species disappears or falls sharply, the balance of the ecosystem is disturbed. The Christian Democrats support the focus on eliminating migration barriers for fish. But, Mr President, we do not believe that individuals should take the great cost that they are now forced to make. In cases where removal or the construction of a route are appropriate measures, they shall be financed from public funds. The grant rules of the county administrative boards must be amended so that it is clear that even those dam owners who have been required to take certain measures are to benefit from State aid, inter alia, in the framework of the so-called LONA grant, in order to take the necessary measures. Such a move is urgent, Mr President, as dust ripples are already in full swing.
i-59fdffdb05466285-66	Mr President, I would like to This report deals, on the one hand, with amendments to the Fisheries Act on penalties for operators in the fisheries sector other than fishermen and, on the other hand, with moves from the general exercise period. With regard to the amendments to the Fisheries Act and the penalties, we have heard here that we fully agree in Parliament on the necessity and importance of introducing them. In terms of exercise, these deal with sustainable fishing, viable stocks, sport fishing, obstacles to migration, eel management and aquaculture. These are the topics that come back every year in the various motions for resolutions. As far as the Alliance's motion on environmentally sustainable fishing is concerned, we can see that the parties do not differ on these issues either. However, just as we in opposition were pushing Eskil Erlandsson as Minister for Fisheries before us to get the EU to pursue a sustainable fisheries policy, the current opposition's task is to do the same with the current Minister for Fisheries. It's healthy and proper. Mr President, I would like to In the case of EU fishermen fishing outside EU waters, the Alliance believes that the fisheries partner agreements should be more sustainable and monitored better than they were during the Alliance's time. I think it's good when politicians can be a little more self-critical and realize that you could have done things better or otherwise. We can agree with the Alliance that we should follow up these issues better, and we are convinced that the current government is giving this a good priority. The Alliance also believes that the subsidies contained in the Partnership Agreements should be reduced so that fishermen benefiting from the Agreements will bear a greater share of the cost and not the EU taxpayer. We agree on that, too. That the subsidy in the partnership agreements should be reduced for those fishermen who benefit from it is not enough. We think we should have the ambition that it should be completely abolished. They're supposed to pay 100% of their expenses. Mr President, I would like to There are also exercises on competitive fishing. There are many reasons why fishing is competitive or not. Large expensive boats need to fish more fish than cheaper and less expensive boats. Expensive and perhaps newer boats can be more efficient, take less fuel and more. There are many things that affect whether you are competitive or not. Another thing that also affects costs is the regulatory framework that surrounds fishing. Here it has been built over years, and it rarely seems to be possible to remove any rule regardless of whether it has any function or not. The representative of the Moderates here spoke of how well they have been at removing the regulations in the fisheries sector. In fact, that's where I have to disagree. There have never been any rules removed in the fishing industry. If one has perhaps been removed, three new ones have been introduced. Today, it is an impenetrable regulatory framework for fishermen to go out. Today they are embarking on the sea for a fishing trip, one can almost say with 100% certainty that any rule has been broken before they land again. Then they can get a ticket. It can cost, and of course the possibility of making a living as well as competition will be affected. Competition is incredibly strongly affected by how Sweden interprets the EU acquis in relation to how other countries do it. This is particularly relevant today when we look at the aquaculture tax system. Should they be treated equally in the EU, or should they not be treated equally in the EU? This is crucial for the future of aquaculture in Sweden. I think we in this room are in agreement about what it's supposed to be like. With the new fisheries policy in Europe that means that everything should be taken ashore and that we have a ration system in some form, it may seem easy for a layman to follow up and control. The way in which the fish are fished, when the fish is fished, has no relevance to the system. The point must be: what are we fishing, and have we fished up what we are allowed to fish? The new EU fisheries policy should allow us to scrap most of our regulations. It is a regulatory framework which today means that no fisherman can leave the port without breaking any rule. The regulatory framework also means that the State directly takes between 700 and 800 million of the funds allocated to the development of the fisheries industry and aquaculture within the fisheries fund, about 1 500 million, to follow up the regulatory framework in a control activity. It is a very strange way of developing the industry, and it is not unique to this government. We should learn from the way other countries use EU funds to develop fisheries. There's a job to do. Mr President, I would like to Eel fishing is always a major source of exercise. According to scientists, the eel is strongly threatened as a species. Today, research says that only just over 1% of the eel comes back here from the Sargasso Sea to grow up – 1%, compared to earlier 100%. If it rises by 0.1 percent, some say there is a sharp increase in eel inflow. You can say that if you want to interpret it that way. The eel is still classified as acutely threatened and has been redlisted in Artdatabanken since 2005. So it is not a WWF construction, but the eel is redlisted in Artdatabanken. More than 99% of the glass eel stock previously measured on Europe's coasts has disappeared. Here in Parliament, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) points out in every negotiation on fishing within the EU, and its advice is to introduce a total stop in eel fishing in Europe as soon as possible. Disturbances such as obstacles to migration and pollution should also be reduced to a minimum, as the eel's growth is now at the lowest level ever. Nevertheless, some parties suggest that it should be possible to inherit eel fishing rights. It is a strange reasoning that one time demand that we follow Ice's advice and on the next occasion totally ignore it. Who, by the way, is allowed to inherit fishing rights when it comes to other types of fishing? Permits are required – permits for vessels, professional fishing licences and others. You can't inherit that kind of thing. But when it comes to eel fishing, it should be possible to inherit the right to fish, and also on a species that is strongly threatened. The Center Party thinks that eel fishing should continue, because otherwise people will probably not care about eel survival. It is also a strange reasoning, I think. I wonder if this applies to all species that are threatened or whether it is only the eel's survival that depends on us killing it. Mr President, I would like to Hydropower kills or damages about 150,000 kilos of blank eel every year as they wander through the turbines. At hydroelectric plants, they are clamped to the bars or shredded by turbine blades – 150,000 kg. Sweden has chosen to voluntarily allow hydroelectric companies to decide what measures they want to take to reduce turbine death. The goal is to halve the mortality rate, so you'll still have to kill 75,000 kilos. So far, the companies have only managed to reduce mortality by 11%, and then simply by putting out eels and paying eel fishermen to transport adult eels past the power plants. Despite the fact that these measures are clearly not sufficient, the companies will continue this programme until 2017. Today, many eels are put into lakes above hydroelectric power stations, for example in Lake Vänern, which greatly reduces their chances of survival. In the case of small hydropower, small hydropower owners are more than willing to invest in better fish routes rather than to spend the money on lawyers. I would like the larger hydropower owners to have as much pressure on themselves as the small ones to take steps to prevent the eel from being ground down in the turbines. If the big ones had shown the same commitment to solving the problem as the small ones do, we might have been able to resume eel fishing in the foreseeable future. Mr President, I would like to Swedish fishing has been in strong transformation for a number of years. It started with pelagic fishing, and now other fishing is under strong pressure of transformation. Here in Parliament, we are happy to express our support for small-scale fishing, which has been uncommittal. Fishing on the west and east sides is very different. Small-scale fishing on the east side suffers badly from the seal and cormorant problem – a yarn fisherman can expect the seal to take and destroy 80% of the fish in the yarn. So the seal takes eight out of ten cod. In whose account should this 80% be written up? Is it on the fisherman's account, or is it the seal's account that should account for that part? There is a limited quota to deal with. Mr President, I would like to We will not have small-scale fishing left in the Baltic Sea unless we soon introduce a management plan for both seals and cormorants. The unfortunate thing would be for the seal population to be reduced because of starvation and disease because we ignore the development that is taking place. There are many challenges for fisheries, Mr President, and not least for small-scale fisheries. If we are to give fishing a chance, we need action from this House. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject all motions.
i-59fdffdb05466285-88	Mr President, I would like to Jan-Olof Larsson talks a lot about eel fishing. You actually show a certain amount of historylessness when you talk about inheritance or not inheritance in eel fishing, because this is a custom dating back to the Middle Ages. It is something completely unique we have in Sweden when it comes to the special conditions eel fishing has and eel fishing rights. But enough about it! If you look at eel fishing and those parts, you can see that we have different conditions. The fishermen around the Åla coast or Hanöbukten, for example, have completely different rules than Danish fishermen, for example. So in Sweden we have a completely different interpretation of the rules than in another country – where they actually fish in the very same fish. You can think about that, and it would be interesting to hear a little about this from Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson. What measures do the Social Democrats want to take to preserve and develop the Swedish eel culture? What I can see from what Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson is presenting here, it seems that the Social Democrats simply want to totally ban eel fishing.
i-59fdffdb05466285-91	Mr President, I would like to I do not remember what year it was, but during the time of the alliance government we were to introduce an eel management plan in Sweden. This was the case for the whole of Europe. It was then, which may seem a little unreasonable, that each country had to submit its own eel management plan and have it approved in the EU. This was done, and the Danes manage in one way and we in another way. However, the requirements are there as a basis. We as a party have said that it is reasonable to have the same administration in the European Union. If you are going to go after ICES advice on all other species in the fishery, this should also be done in the case of eel fishing. This would mean a total stop for eel fishing today – for all countries. There would be a stop not least down in the Bay of Biscay, where you fish small, small glass eels and sell to China for luxury food. I do not know what it's like today; a lot of fish is also being fished for eel farming and restocking, but a lot goes on food. My answer, then, is that we should ensure that we have an eel management plan so that the species survives. We are going to do this together in the EU, and we need to renegotiate the eel management plans so that it becomes a joint eel management plan for the countries. We'll consider Ice's advice, just like we do with other species.
i-59fdffdb05466285-94	Mr President, I would like to First of all: then is then, and now is the time to discuss. We still need to talk about what the Social Democrats themselves want when the party is in a government position. We have an eel management plan, and I understand that they stick to it. You refer to Ices, Jan-Olof Larsson, but my question was whether S wants to totally ban eel fishing? If so, do we have to look at those who sit with eel fishing rights, for example? Will it compensate for total bans, or will it allow the industry – as has been mentioned earlier – to die some form of soot death and kill itself? What's the idea? Do you want to see a living eel culture?
i-59fdffdb05466285-96	Mr President, I would like to Do you want to see a living eel culture? I want to see live eel. That's the primary. Without live eel, we don't have eel culture. Why not treat eel fishermen just as you treat all the other fishermen? Should they also inherit their fishing rights in all other areas? Is it the policy of the Swedish Democrats? So they are not supposed to apply for a professional fishing licence and so on, but they can inherit it, as you should be allowed to do in eel fishing. We don't think that's right. It must be tested on the basis of the conditions: what stocks do we have? Can we fish on it? And those who are going to do this job should be knowledgeable. I think that is the basis for the right to fish at all.
i-59fdffdb05466285-97	Mr President, I would like to The MP Jan-Olof Larsson is very committed to issues related to fishing. There is no doubt about that. I am pleased that the honourable Member has been very clear in the past on the continuing simplification of the rules. I believe that Jan-Olof Larsson, in general, has the same view of regulatory simplification as the Moderates. Fishing is extremely supervised. In fact, there is no doubt about that. When we last debated fisheries policy here in Parliament, Member Jan-Olof Larsson said: I do not know how they are doing in North Korea, but it is close at hand. Another thing Jan-Olof Larsson said at the time was that the red-green government would have implemented significant regulatory simplifications two years after they had taken power. I wonder now, how has it gone? What significant simplifications in the fisheries sector has the government implemented?
i-59fdffdb05466285-99	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that is a bit what I touched upon in my speech. We have now implemented the new EU fisheries policy and new systems. My hope now is to sit down on the HaV with the fishermen and look at: what can we remove from the new fisheries policy? That is where we have a distributed quota, and we should take everything ashore. Before, we wouldn't take everything ashore. Then you had to throw. Then you had to have a lot of rules that fenced in all this. We don't need that today. I think we should assume that those who are fishermen are basically honest. There are always those who differ in all occupational categories. But basically, they're honest. Then you're supposed to start with that. Then I assume they'll take ashore what they've been fishing for. They count it off in relation to the quotas they have. There's no need for much more control. When you fish, how you fish and so on is really insignificant as long as you stick to the quota you have been allocated. It's my conviction that there'll be regulatory simplifications next year, or you won't do your job. It must do so on the basis of the new system.
i-59fdffdb05466285-102	Mr President, I would like to I listened to n-Olof n-Olof Larsson. He mentioned the Sea and Water Authority, HaV, as an important player. I agree with that. It is an authority created by the Alliance in its time. But the responsible authorities in the fisheries sector had already been in power during the time of the Alliance to work on precisely regulatory simplifications, so I may well come back and adjust the question a little: are there any concrete examples that the government has given the responsible authorities changed directives to work with regulatory simplifications?
i-59fdffdb05466285-103	Mr President, I would like to It is the same directive that Eskil Erlandsson had in his time. It's about us working for regulatory simplifications. But then fishing must take place in such a way that we do not have to remove one rule and add two. I am convinced that the EU's new fisheries policy can remove a lot of rules that we have today. I will as well as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson monitor this, so that you do it in a good way at the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management. Despite the ambitions of former Fisheries Minister Eskil Erlandsson to remove regulations for fishing, nothing has disappeared there, but it has constantly increased. This is because it is an EU-led activity.
i-59fdffdb05466285-105	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that we agree that the regulatory framework surrounding fishing must be simplified. Fishermen feel that somehow the starting point is that they are more or less criminal all and must be controlled. It becomes a crazy circus when you are not even allowed to dock because you do not have contact with the maritime authority and the internet and such. There will be absurd situations. I would like to come back to what much of the discussion on the common fisheries policy is about. This applies to the concept of MSY, maximum sustainable yield. That is the starting point. As has been said here: If there are no live fish, it is difficult to fish. But I'm a little surprised. Jan-Olof Larsson describes a problem picture and a reality picture. I can share much of that reality picture. But I was waiting to present the strategy of the current government to solve some of these problems. It didn't work out. As regards eel, for example, we have a national eel management plan on which the Commission has had a follow-up. The Agency has then looked at it and stated that restrictions on fishing should be maintained. It also points to the very negative role of hydropower in this context. Jan-Olof Larsson reported on this. It just shows what dimensions this has. The interesting thing is, what happens now? The report states that this is currently being prepared within the Government Office. Then one might wonder: What is happening in the Government Office with that question right now?
i-59fdffdb05466285-109	Mr President, I would like to Liberals were not involved in the energy agreement that came about a few days ago, but that agreement deals with both small-scale water activities and other water activities. In that package, it is very much about how to ensure that these companies are supported in order to achieve environmentally sound production, as we demand. It's part of it. I can understand the eel fish. There are some eel fishermen who I think fish 400 kilos of eel per person. It can be seen as a trifle in the whole when you see that it takes 150 000 kilos of eel in the power plants. Then it's the power plants we're going to put together, not the eel fish. That is where we have to put the resources in and make demands. We have agreed that it should be an environmental test for both large and small power plants. Part of the environmental test must be that measures are taken to prevent the fish and eel from being hacked into the power plant stations. It is the largest and most effective measure to recover the eel stock. Then it is very important that you stop fishing small eels down in the Bay of Biscay. A can of small eels are tons here when they're grown up. So there are many parts. That is why I think it is important for the European Union to hold on to this.
i-59fdffdb05466285-111	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I do not think I really got an answer to what is happening specifically on this issue. This is, of course, about the follow-up to the national eel management plan. It is true, as Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson says, that there are differences between different countries. It is therefore not really comparable between countries. Nevertheless, the Commission has looked at it, and the Maritime and Water Authority has looked at it. Now it's the government that's going to do something. Then you can refer to different things, but it still becomes only a description of reality. What is the strategy? Now that we are on a strategy, Mr President, one might wonder about the discard ban, which is very central. There is now quite a lot of uncertainty as to how it should actually land. It is linked to how to handle questions about who fish and how and when it happens. It can, of course, be a conflict situation if you want to individualise rights. In some way, perhaps that is where the solution is. If you have a discard ban and are going to land everything, you have to have quotas for everything, too. There must then be some possibility of exchanging quotas. As I mentioned in my speech, constructive discussions are taking place, but the question is again: what is the role of the government in this, and what responsibility does the Minister take? Is it something that Jan-Olof Larsson has the opportunity to develop?
i-59fdffdb05466285-114	Mr President, I would like to Of course the Minister has a responsibility. It is ultimately his responsibility that we get to grips with this and get a way of fishing so that we can cope with the discard ban and ensure that we follow up in a good way. I cannot literally go in and see what he has done and has not done to the authorities. After all, he gives the Maritime and Water Authority the task of carrying this out, and I understand there will be a proposal at the beginning of the autumn. This is part of the problem. There are a lot of problems even if we individualize these quotas. I heard the Ices had a meeting. The aim was to reduce quotas by 88% in the western stock. You should include recreational fishing in this and so on. There will be huge political discussions about this: How will professional fishing survive at all? Let me hope and believe it. The Minister is putting a great deal of effort into getting this done, but the landing ban is only part of the whole fishing problem if we are to have one fish left.
i-59fdffdb05466285-118	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, the rest of the committee, for this debate. After all, we are here to debate the proposal on penalties for operators in the fisheries sector other than fishermen and the general exercise on fisheries and aquaculture. It is above all the latter that we are debating. The proposal, as we have already stated, is part of harmonising so that we have common EU rules. It will also work with the Treaty of Lisbon, the EU's common fisheries policy, which has also been up here for debate, and other amendments to the Fisheries Act that need to be made. I would therefore like to call for the proposal and the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. I would like to take this opportunity to talk about fishing and its importance in an international perspective. The Alliance parties have insisted that we have more cooperation and more international and European issues, and I think that is something we can all agree that we want. We must have international cooperation, because marine resources are finite. They have an end, and they must be managed jointly because the sea has no borders. The animals in nature know no boundaries, and the sea is probably the clearest example of that. The sea binds countries and continents together. It's not the other way around, as you sometimes think. The sperm whale that was sighted in the Gothenburg archipelago earlier this week was perhaps the same individual that I saw from a sailing boat in the Azores a few years ago. The newly caught mackerel that many of my friends are currently boasting on Facebook images from the Swedish west coast has spent winter out in the Atlantic and North Sea. The salmon caught in the Baltic Sea is born and raised in inland rivers and streams. The water unites, but it also places demands on how we manage this together. Another globetrotter has been up here – the eel. The eel will probably take the globetrotter prize with a Eurobonus card that is bigger than everyone else's. The eels are born in the Sargasso Sea between Cuba and the United States across the Atlantic. They then travel all the way across the Atlantic until they end up on Europe's coasts. The journey takes almost two years. Here they live in coastal waters. Many of them get curious and enter fresh water up into rivers and rivers. It is therefore the same eels, the same stock, a single stock of eel, that we can find in a river in Norrland or in a well in Mauritania, North Africa. Then they go back all the way across the Atlantic to mate and die, and then the journey starts all over again. Therefore, everyone must help each other throughout the journey so that such a species is not threatened or endangered. That is what has happened now. Just as Jan-Olof Larsson said here before, the eel is acutely endangered. If the eel disappears, there is no more eel, because there is only one stock. Therefore, all the countries that the eel passes on the journey must do their bit to make this work so that the eel can come back. It is also a long-lived organism, so the measures we are doing today are probably what will enable us to fish on eel in 15 to 20 years' time. We have to have that perspective, or it won't work. To see a sharp increase is about perspective. If you see from a year, which is at 1 percent of the inflow of the zero year, it will be wrong. We must see it as a whole and in a trend. There we see that coordination, national management plans, international agreements and, at European level in this case, cooperation is what can save the eel. I think that Sweden has a very important role in the different contexts where we talk about international cooperation. I would like to spend some time telling you about a trip that I made in February. I was in Senegal to study small-scale fishing, and I was there when a report on small-scale fishing came out. There I met a fisherman who told me that what they were fishing in one day before now takes two or three weeks to get together. So they are at sea in their small boats for weeks at a time, and it is not certain that they will come home with a catch. Fishing agreements and sometimes agreements that were not even fisheries agreements, but only fishermen have emptied the seas outside and made the people who live near the coast have no resources to live off. It is also related to other issues. Climate change makes it dry inwards the continents, driving people closer to the coasts. Wars and unrest also move people closer to the coasts. There were 5 million people in Somalia in East Africa 20 years ago. Now it's 15 million. Fish is a good food source for getting protein for the day, but the fish is already transported elsewhere. So this is going to be an evil spiral. We are more and more sharing resources, space and food, and the more people living near a coast, the more we use it. The mangrove disappears, there will be no places to grow up for the fish and it in turn reduces fishing. But when I was there in Senegal and met these people, I was almost royally treated, because I was from Sweden. When I came out into small villages, it always turned out that someone else had been there before me – Isabella Lövin, our minister for climate and international development work and our mouthpiece. The work that we have done in the EU and that the Swedish Government has done both before and now is recognised and has helped. I met an organization, Caopa, which a few years ago was just a small organization trying to beat a blow for small-scale fishing. Now they have become one of the major partners and are always involved in the negotiation of fisheries agreements and also domestic fisheries. You look at the whole community, that is, the whole civil society. Instead of seeing that there are three fishermen divided into three boats, one also sees how it affects the society of the land, how it affects women, where there are schools and so on. This has been a success. You can see that the fish is coming back. They also have education. When I was there, fishermen told me in nowhere, if you could allow yourself that expression, that you could stop fishing on capital. You're doing it wrong! All we have to do is take the interest. They had had large meetings and learned about this and were now very hard on it. There's been a change. From being an organisation that existed in six countries in West Africa, there are now 42 countries throughout Africa and have also started to fish inland. It is beginning to move towards more sustainable and small-scale fishing, which makes use of the resource available and ensures that it benefits society. It is Swedish politics that has helped with this, and it becomes even clearer in the new civil society strategy and PGU, policy for global development, where it is precisely these processes that we need to strengthen. We have to do these things together, even at home. All actors must be involved. This is how they thought in Baltfish, where they processed the Baltic Sea plans. There is great potential for improvement. Sweden can take much greater leadership at home. Sweden has a good reputation in these matters, and that depends on how we have acted together in the past and how we act now. There is no doubt that Baltfish is a flagship project under the new EU fisheries policy. However, it can be even better – for Sweden.
i-B5wKoaJ69By9xVYaNg7q7A	Mr President, I would like to Today's second report is 2015/ 16:MJU18 Environmental Code and EU chemicals legislation, etc. It is a motion report dealing with approximately 50 requests for exercise, 15 reservations and a government proposal with two follow-up motions. These include economic instruments, the application of plant protection legislation and the phasing out of microplastics. It is large and small in a blessed mixture, in other words. Mr President, I would like to As a moderate Member of Parliament, I am pleased that the chemicals legislation at macro level is heading in the right direction. It is gratifying that the chemicals legislation is now essentially contained in common EU regulations. This does not build up national barriers between countries, and we have a well-functioning internal market. In a world where our Swedish companies are becoming increasingly international, this is desirable. In those areas where we can deliver environmentally smart innovations with chemical-based solutions, we also want to export them. Higher growth and better environment go hand in hand. And that goes without saying; chemicals do not care about land borders. The emissions that occur in our immediate vicinity will soon be seen. But that has not always been the case. Not so long ago, in the newly industrialized Sweden, soot and ash could plague the environment around our factories. The solution then was to build the chimneys higher and higher. In this way, emissions were spread over larger areas – and in some cases, soot rained down in other countries. We've come a long way since then. Looking back just a few years, it was also believed that high dose exposure to endocrine disruptors was the most dangerous. With today's knowledge, we know that prolonged low-dose exposure can be at least as dangerous. What does this show? Well, the chemical debate, like the climate and environmental debate, is quite dynamic. New findings, new knowledge and new innovations make the playing field a bit mobile all the time. These are both the positive effects of chemicals and the negative effects of chemicals. While we see the risks of, for example, bioaccumulative toxins and endocrine disruptors, we must keep in mind that it is also chemicals that will give us better batteries for our electric cars and purifying processes in our treatment plants. Mr President, I would like to On the other hand, there is more to be desired about the bill. It is good that the government is clear that chemicals legislation is EU-wide. We Moderates think it should be too. However, this also requires a similar interpretation and implementation of the legislation in the countries of the European Union. Here the government has a great lesson to do in terms of, among other things, the management of new plant protection products. There are countless examples when Swedish authorities have an unreasonable handling of approvals and exemptions in this area. Plant protection products authorised by other EU countries are prohibited in Sweden. And this applies not only to our neighbours far in the south, but also to countries such as Denmark and Finland. When this happens, the bones are thrown away for Swedish agriculture. At the same time, environmental problems are being moved to other countries. It is a situation where everyone loses because mutual approvals are not available. Absolutely! Ministers in Sweden do not have the right to interfere in individual government decisions. It is good that Sweden has such laws. But even on a horizontal level, the ministers do not act. In the light of this, I would like to endorse Amendment No 7. The Moderates are further developing this issue in a follow-up motion. Mr President, I would like to There is also reason to look at what the government has prioritised in the field of chemicals policy over the past year. Environmental policy has previously been defined as the government's figurehead and a priority area. The Government's letter No 169, Non-toxic everyday life, mentions, among other things, the problems of bisphenol A. It is good that the problems are mentioned. When the alarm came about bisphenol A's endocrine disrupting effect in 2012, former Minister of the Environment Lena Ek was resolute. Legislation regulating bisphenol A in food packaging intended for children quickly came into place. The EU followed swiftly. That's right! Children are particularly susceptible to endocrine disruptors. What, then, is the current government chosen to prioritise? Well, what the government has come up with in a legislative way is a proposal to ban bisphenol A in two-component epoxy used in the re-treatment of old water pipes. This is despite the fact that only 3 000 households in Sweden have such tubes, although such epoxy is no longer used in Sweden, despite the fact that the government's own authority has investigated and concluded that bisphenol A is not excreted when the pipes are used, despite the fact that international expert authorities, the FAO and Efsa, which we usually listen to, state that the current level of exposure of bisphenol A is not harmful to humans. One can therefore consider whether the government prioritises the right things in its chemicals policy and whether it is effective. The same applies to some extent to action against microplastics. The government is making a proposal to ban non-degradable micrograins of plastic in skin care products that are rinsed off, even though the industry itself states that it will have phased out the grains before the legislation even gets in place and despite the fact that the lion's share of the microplastic comes from the decomposition of larger fragments – thus not skin care products. Greater ambitions in this area had been welcomed. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention in particular a subject that is sometimes forgotten. In the past, the Alliance has pushed for substances with similar properties to be banned in groups. That should be a priority. Like net drugs, dangerous chemicals can be easily modified — you can move a phenyl group or similar — to avoid the recent ban. Let us look at bisphenol A, which has already been mentioned. It may not have escaped anyone that there are wicked cousins — bisphenol S and bisphenol F. However, in addition to looking at chemicals in groups, combined effects should also be investigated. Sweden, through the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, has participated in international studies to study these effects. It is well known in healthcare that substances that are not dangerous individually can act as incubators for each other and create a kind of toxic cocktail. More on this is in reservation 15, to which I hereby request approval. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say the following. Chemicals legislation in the EU is moving in the right direction. If REACH can continue to be updated and national bans prevented, we will soon reach the targets. Here Sweden has an important role to play. Swedish authorities need clearer governance regarding mutual approval of plant protection products. Swedish gold-plating and narrow interpretations make agriculture and plant growers less competitive. It's the wrong way. The government has noted the major challenges, namely endocrine disruptors and microplastics in water, but chooses to take small and ineffective measures. In short, some are done – but Sweden can do better than this.
i-59fdffdb05466285-164	Mr President, I would like to This debate tends to focus on toxins, prohibitions, taxes and more. The catalogue of sports deals in 19 out of 20 cases with chemicals to be banned, taxed or exposed to more bureaucratic barriers. It is not surprising because chemicals are usually perceived as something toxic that is harmful. And certainly there are examples in history that discourage. It is therefore normal that the management of chemicals is surrounded by a system – a system that ordinary people must be able to trust. At the same time, we have a government that uses chemicals policy more as a budgetary regulator. When you conduct irresponsible policies in one place, you try to collect money on another by taking on, for example, consumer electronics and PVC floors. Now they have withdrawn the plastic tax that would have sent hundreds of jobs away from Sweden, but they persist with a new tax on consumer electronics. It's a way of trying to fill the holes in the state budget without anyone caring. For who wants to fight for a chemical – or several? There are certainly easier ways to score points in the political debate. Border trade and foreign online stores have a competitive advantage while it is extremely difficult to see that some kind of weight-based tax on consumer electronics in Sweden could in some way affect product development. This makes the proposal not only bad for Swedish jobs but also false in the sense that it is not at all about protecting the environment. Precisely the same products that will be purchased in the past. The environment is not improving at all. On the other hand, Swedish companies are less competitive. But chemicals are, properly used, basically useful products. Medical care and access to medicine have been crucial to increasing life expectancy in recent decades. The expected life expectancy in our country has increased from 76 to 82 years since the 1980s. In countries in Africa, this is an increase of 10 to 15 years over the same period of time. This is how it looks all over the world – you live in most countries longer and healthier lives. New, better and more accessible medicines have been crucial to this development. And drugs are chemicals, which are usually manufactured industrially. Pesticides and fertilisers have been instrumental in increasing the supply of food so that more people can eat enough than ever before. It is important to keep this in the back of your mind when it is called for by regulations and bans. It must be made clear, for example, that the use of fertilisers in our agriculture contributes to the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. At the same time, however, it should be remembered that the health of the Baltic Sea would not be significantly affected if we closed down the whole of Swedish agriculture. We have – let me point that out – a Swedish chemicals policy with which we have great reason to be satisfied. We are good at identifying risks, and we are one of the countries at the forefront in taking initiatives at international level. After all, chemicals policy is largely bound by international agreements, where the EU is the key – at least today. Although I am certainly not a supporter of the European Union, I can admit that it is working quite well today. There are many reasons for countries in the same region to harmonise their legislation in this area. The EU internal market should ensure a level playing field. If we stand up for free trade, as we Swedish democrats do, it is of course important that there are agreements that make it difficult for countries to implement protectionist measures under false pretences. In Sweden's case, the problem is rather that we sabotage Swedish entrepreneurs without any obvious benefit. There are many examples of other assessments of plant protection products in Sweden than in other countries. The result is that Swedish producers are knocked out while the foreign products are available to buy in our grocery stores. This is where we are today talking about how the applications were designed. Nevertheless, it feels like there is a lack of an industrial perspective in chemicals policy and at the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate. Of course, responsibility for this rests first and foremost with the government. The processing times have been too long, the processing is costly and a rigid system makes the process time-consuming and unnecessarily bureaucratic for businesses. Applications are rejected at the same time as it is clear that the substance might have been authorised if the concentration were different. One might wonder whether this could not have been resolved during the excessive length of proceedings. The picture I get is that we are extremely good at identifying risks, detecting harmful substances and putting forward proposals for new bans. But when it comes to giving Swedish entrepreneurs reasonable conditions in competitive industries, we are worse. The result is that we disadvantage Swedish companies while the same products are still consumed in Sweden and boats with the same harmful chemical substances still traffic Swedish water. Of course, we need a consumer perspective on this, and that perspective should be factual and factual in order to eliminate risks in society as far as we can. We will support those who have the knowledge and work on this in making adequate, balanced assessments. We must have high ambitions in the environmental field. At the same time, we must have a business perspective – otherwise we will only export jobs to countries with lower ambitions without achieving any real benefits.
i-59fdffdb05466285-178	Mr President, I would like to When I got up this morning – after snoozing a little longer than I imagined – I went into the bathroom. In the space of half an hour I had gone through shampoo, conditioner, shower cream, face cream, body lotion, deodorant, perfume and of course– because as a female politician you have to use some kind of facial makeup – foundation, mascara and lipstick. I am not telling you this in order for you to know my daily routines, but it is an attempt to show how many different products we as individual consumers come into contact with every day. These are normal routines for most people. Both we in this House and those sitting at home by the TV or computer and following us remotely often start the day by opening the bathroom cabinet and using various products. According to one calculation, each woman uses an average of 12 products in a day. It has been calculated that it involves direct action with 168 different chemicals. Men come in direct contact with about half of it. These are products that affect us humans and that affect our environment. As previous speakers have said, it is not necessarily the case that a chemical is dangerous because it is a chemical. We are in our environment and environment dependent on chemicals. But there are chemicals that are not good for us, and there are dangerous substances that are not good for our environment. We are becoming increasingly aware of what we are putting in, what we are eating, but the knowledge and interest in what we are wearing is not as great. It is perfectly understandable that consumers are not fully aware of the substances contained in different products. Unfortunately, however, the interest of researchers and authorities is also a little too low. There are cosmetic products on the market that contain endocrine disruptors, high-fluorinated substances and metal compounds that are dangerous to both health and the environment. So these are products that we and our children use every day. One might think that it should be a simple solution to phase out all the environmentally dangerous and harmful chemicals that exist in our cosmetics and in our everyday lives, but unfortunately that is not the case. I have talked to manufacturers, environmental organisations, authorities and various stakeholders in the field. Everyone confirms that there are many obstacles to the phasing out of dangerous substances in our products. It is therefore very important that both industry and research receive the support they need in order to find substitutes for the dangerous substances that exist in our everyday lives. At the same time, the European Cosmetics Regulation is extremely weak in terms of environmental aspects. This means that there is a wide range of environmentally hazardous substances in common products such as hair color, deodorants and skin creams. Instead, the environmental aspect is dealt with under EU chemicals legislation REACH. But the processes take time, and here, as you know, only a handful of endocrine disruptors are regulated. We know that there are more substances that need to be regulated. Lena Ek, former Minister for the Environment, was, as you know, in agreement with the Commission because it took too long to develop criteria for phasing out endocrine disruptors. Yesterday, there was good news at last. The Commission made a proposal, and it was indeed about time. However, the proposal has already met with criticism from a number of quarters in order not to be complete, either for the producers' long-term rules of play or for the safety of consumers. It is therefore very important that Sweden, at EU level, continues to press ahead with the issue of restriction of endocrine disruptors. But it is also important that Sweden really continues the important work in chemicals policy that the Alliance Government did by having an ambitious chemicals policy both in the EU and in Sweden. Another example of environmentally hazardous substances in our everyday life is microplastics used in skin creams, shower creams and so on. These microplastics cannot be purified by our treatment plants and end up in our watercourses, where they disrupt marine ecosystems. A recently published study from Uppsala University has shown that perch fry prefers microplastics to natural plankton as food. This has a major impact on the ecosystem. This plastic leads to death, either by putting up digestion or by changing the behavior of the young, so that the young person becomes a prey. That is why we in the Center Party want Sweden to really push for this at European level and ensure that these microplastics are indeed phased out at European level, so that we have a microplastic-free everyday life. Mr President, I would like to For chemical work to move forward, the job must be done at EU level in particular. We live in an internal market, and the goods move across our borders. In view of the competitiveness of producers and the safety of consumers, the regulatory framework must usually be developed at EU level. It also imposes requirements on how Swedish authorities interpret and apply the regulations. In the spring, it has become very clear how different our authorities actually interpret the common regulatory framework within the EU. During the spring, vegetable growers, such as onion farmers, have received very disappointing news in terms of access to plant protection products. In turn, Swedish production risks moving abroad. I can mention, for example, a Scanian onion grower whom I met a while ago. He has started exporting onions to Germany, because there is such a great interest in Swedish onions among consumers in Germany because in Sweden they use minimal pesticides and plant protection products. The onion also has a good durability. But now this onion grower does not know whether he will be able to continue growing the onion that is actually demanded in other countries because of the sustainable cultivation that Swedish onion growers have. That's too bad. Instead of providing the outside world with sustainable Swedish onions and other sustainable Swedish products, we are faced with a situation where we are instead allowed to import onions that have been grown with less environmental considerations. There is a regulatory framework for the mutual authorisation of biocidal products and plant protection products. It is important that it is followed and used as widely as possible, so that we have a good competitive position on the market. The functioning of the internal market also requires strong co-operation on the chemical side between authorities in different countries, both in terms of authorisation and in terms of follow-up. Over the past year, we have seen examples of the EU chemicals regulatory framework not being followed by all Member States. Over the past five years, 22 of the world's most dangerous pesticides have been found in food that has been found in Swedish supermarkets and restaurants. Although it is forbidden to use these pesticides in Europe, they have been found in cucumbers from Holland, apples from Belgium, olive oil from Greece and oranges from Spain. So products that are not authorised in Europe are still being used. This is very problematic, especially from a consumer point of view, because consumers are at risk of getting dangerous substances. But it is of course problematic even from a competitiveness perspective. Healthy Swedish food is produced under a strict regulatory framework with even less pesticides than other countries in the EU. The use of products that are not even authorised in other competitor countries is very problematic. It is therefore very important for Sweden to mark against the countries where banned substances are used, so that the supervision in these countries is tightened up and that the legislation in place is effectively complied with. We from the Center Party have called on the government to highlight this issue in the Commission, and I hope it will. But this shows how important it is to cooperate between countries and authorities in the field of chemicals within the EU, so that controls, approvals and restrictions really work. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all the reservations of the Center Party, but for time to come, I only support reservations 10 and 11.
i-59fdffdb05466285-202	Mr President, I would like to It is usually said that there are about 100 000 chemicals in the EU internal market. As we know, we know far too little about the properties of these chemicals. Many of them are not regulated at all to the extent that they should. It is not at all okay for us consumers to get hormone-disrupting substances from the receipt when we are shopping. It is not okay for workers working in industry to be exposed every day to chemicals and other substances that can cause cancer and metal poisoning, to take two examples, if exposed to them for a long time. And it is absolutely not okay that all our children are exposed to dangerous substances every day when they play with their toys and maybe put them in their mouths. These are just a few examples of a great deal more to be done. It also deserves to be pointed out, as Kristina Yngwe of the Center Party mentioned, that these substances also affect our surrounding nature and water. Of course, it's not just about microplastics, it can be drug residues, heavy metals, plastic softeners and so on. The whole idea of the EU Chemicals Regulation REACH was that the burden of proof should be placed on the user, i.e. on the industry, and that the industry should present the details and content of the various substances they place on the market. If there is a substance that is less harmful, it shall automatically replace the more harmful substance. We know that REACH is a pretty fine principle, but in practice there is a lot that does not work. I think that yesterday's criteria that came from the European Commission on how hormone-disrupting substances should be regulated, unfortunately, are another example of this. This proposal places such a high burden of proof on those who want to regulate endocrine disruptors that it will simply be very difficult to produce all scientific evidence to remove these chemicals. The risk is quite obvious, as our Swedish Chemicals Agency has stated, that it is not until we see severe damage to humans and animals or to nature that we finally get the ultimate proof of how dangerous these substances are. Having such a great burden of proof is totally contrary to the whole spirit of REACH. It is also completely contrary to the precautionary principle, which is actually the basis of our chemicals legislation, namely that if there is a risk of any danger, care should be taken to avoid it. In this respect, I simply expect the government to really hit the table and tell the European Commission that this does not hold and that changes are needed. Changes are needed both in the REACH Regulation and in the criteria that have recently been presented on endocrine disruptors. We cannot just wait for something amazing to happen down in Brussels, but we, as individual Member States, have to go ahead and push for the regulation of dangerous chemicals. For example, I think – this with the address of Jesper Skalberg Karlsson from the Moderates – that it is great that the government now bans bisphenol A in relined water pipes in some households. It is true, as Jesper Skalberg Karlsson says, that it is not about very many households. However, I believe that for the approximately 5 000 people present in these households it is very important not to get hormone-disrupting substances into household drinking water. Don't the Moderates think so? Do not the Moderates think it is good to introduce this ban? With this ban – even if it is not a question of huge numbers of households – we are, in any case, putting an end to the fact that, in future, we are dealing with endocrine disruptors. I would also like to continue to strike a blow in order for us in Sweden to take the lead in the field of chemicals. It is not only good for us if we dare to take a few steps further than other countries within the European Union. History shows that if there are countries that are giving priority to chemicals and the environment in general, this is a way of influencing the EU as a whole. This was the case, for example, with the pesticide paraquate. As you may remember, we had a ban on the use of paraquats in agriculture here in Sweden before joining the European Union. When we joined the EU in 1995, the EU forced us to allow it again. Then Sweden took this all the way to the European Court of Justice, and we won. There is now a ban on paraquats throughout the EU. It would not have happened if a country had not been courageous, gone ahead and showed the way. This is how we will continue to do in Sweden. That is why it is such an important principle to always allow the Member States to take the lead in the environmental field, and this is something that we in the Left Party have been exercising on several occasions. Mr President, I would like to I would like to express my support for reservation No 3. It is about Sweden having to push for more stringent legislation in particular to regulate chemicals contained in toys. One could say that this is something that the government is already working on and is fully aware of. But it does not actually work in all areas. There is something called the EU Toys Directive. This toy directive still allows fragrances that can cause allergies and other things in children. Why should you have fragrances in children's toys? There are also some different metals that can have a negative impact on children's health. When I was a Member of the European Parliament a couple of years ago, I myself conducted an investigation. I bought a large number of toys and sent them to a laboratory. The result was somewhat horrifying. We were told that there were phthalates, i.e. plasticizers, lead and brominated flame retardants in Pippiperuken that my children wore at home. This shows that much more needs to be done, and that is why we highlight that there is great potential for improvement in the Toy Directive in addition to other chemicals legislation. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 3. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I have criticised the European Union a great deal. We have good reason to do so, but if the TTIP trade and investment agreement with the United States were to go through, the idea of the future and what could happen to it further. The aim of the agreement is to have a common transatlantic market with a single authorisation procedure for all products to be placed on this market. How is this procedure to be resolved? The principle in the EU is the precautionary principle. The burden of proof lies with industry, that is, those who place dangerous chemicals on the market should prove that it is harmless or harmless. North America has the completely reversed principle. There lies the burden of proof on the authorities. They must come back and point out that these are dangerous substances. I am terrified that it will be the principle of the United States that will overwhelm the precautionary principle of the European Union. Then, folks, we've lost a lot.
i-59fdffdb05466285-217	Mr President, I would like to No one should have to be exposed to the exposure of BPA in dangerous quantities, Jens Holm. However, in the case of relined water pipes and these 3 000 households, the government's own expert authority, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, has investigated the matter. They have looked at how much BPA is released and concluded that it is not a matter of dangerous quantities. Then the follow-up question is: Why does Jens Holm want to ban something that does nothing dangerous and something that has previously been used in a process but that the industry itself has phased out? What if other countries were to do the same? France, for example, has a general ban on BPA. It is disproportional, and it is despite the fact that the EU's own Efsa expert authority, the FAO and the WHO – the authorities that we usually listen to – have concluded that there is no risk to human health at the current level of exposure. Then it will be reasonable to ask Jens Holm what his assessment is based on, because it differs from the Chemical Inspectorate's assessment.
i-59fdffdb05466285-220	Mr President, I would like to For me, the question is whether we should allow anything that secretes a hormone-disrupting substance into drinking water at all. I don't think we should do that. Then you can always discuss different levels and just how harmful a substance is. A daily intake of a hormone-disrupting substance is, in any case, something that I would like to avoid. It's a good thing that the industry no longer uses bisphenol in relining – which there may be a reason – but I don't want there to be a risk of using it in the future. The risk is that you take it as a faster and cheaper solution for apartments where you don't spend so much money on renovation. Then people with small wallets are affected by exposure to a hormone disrupting substance. My question back to the Moderates is: why do you want to allow a hormone-disrupting substance right into the drinking water at all?
i-59fdffdb05466285-223	Mr President, I would like to I think politics should be evidence-based and that we should ban what is dangerous. However, the Chemical Inspectorate, the FAO and Efsa – expert authorities that we usually listen to on other issues relating to dangerous substances – state that people are not exposed to this in dangerous quantities, and I then wonder how effective that ban would be. As Jens Holm mentions, it is already phased out. There is no risk to the 3 000 households currently receiving their drinking water from water pipes relineed with BPA. The question then becomes the rhetorical question I asked in my speech: Is the government's chemicals policy effective, and is it based on scientific criteria? It is clear that there may be reasons for Sweden to go ahead when there is no other way out. This applies, for example, to bisphenol A in baby food cans, which we decided on in 2012. It was clear then that the EU was following. But here it is about a few households. It is about relining that does not affect the water they drink and a substance that we do not ingest in dangerous quantities. The question then is whether this is a priority policy. Is this effective policy? Aren't there any other issues you could address? Jens Holm himself mentioned receipts. We do not see any government initiatives there.
i-59fdffdb05466285-226	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree that the government should do much more in this area. But I can't really see the Moderates as the blowtorch for us in Sweden to go ahead in the chemical field. When we have previously tabled proposals in this House for a total ban on bisphenol A, the Moderates have voted against it, to take an example. There are always people who will suffer if we have a hormone-disrupting substance in the water pipes– I am absolutely convinced of this. People may flush hot water out of that pipe because it's a little faster when you're going to use it in cooking. They will suffer as the substance is then excreted more and more easily. Children are more likely to suffer as they are much smaller and therefore less is needed for them to be affected. If the precautionary principle is to be the starting point of our legislation, this is quite the right decision. For the approximately 5 000 people living in these approximately 3 000 households, this is an important ban that avoids a hormone-disrupting substance in the water pipes.
i-59fdffdb05466285-230	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 10. Of course, we support all our reservations that we have submitted, but in order to gain time we restrict ourselves to seeking approval only for these two. After all, we Christian Democrats are well known for our family policy, in which we focus in particular on the conditions under which children and young people grow up. We want to give more time for the children and a supportive and positive environment to grow up in. Therefore, it is probably no surprise that my contribution to this debate focuses on non-toxic everyday life for the growing race. We should all be able to be sure that the products we buy are not harmful to us, to our environment and to our health. Of course, it is particularly important that the products with which children surround themselves should be free from dangerous substances. We know that younger people in Western Europe today carry a higher proportion of toxic chemicals in their blood than their parent generation does. Among the growing public health problems suspected of being linked to chemicals are various types of allergies, autism, depression, diabetes, fertility problems, obesity, hyperactivity and mental illness. Our children are particularly sensitive to chemicals. To this end, political decisions should take this into account and aim to protect children and young people. During their reign, the Alliance parties prioritised work for a non-toxic everyday life and developed a specific strategy that focuses on children and young adults and runs until 2020. Among the municipalities around our country there is also a great commitment to phase out toxic substances from the children's everyday lives. Many preschools work actively to create nontoxic environments. We think that we should support the municipalities so that they can procure non-toxic products for their preschools. It is already possible for independent principals to run kindergartens or schools with a non-toxic profile. This should also be possible for public authorities. Freedom of movement does not stand and fall with the freedom of private operators and should therefore not fall into the hands of public operators in this case. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that when a public actor who carries out activities for children makes a procurement, it should have the right to state for itself which environmental and health requirements apply, unless the other party can prove that the requirements are unwarranted. This would range from toys and baby bottles to food and drink consumed primarily by children in the activities. Mr President, I would like to In the former alliance government, the Christian Democrats were pushing for the phasing out of bisphenols. And since 1 March 2011, it is no longer permitted to manufacture baby bottles with bisphenol A, and since 1 July 2013 bans all use of bisphenol A in baby food packaging. However, other types of bisphenols are also harmful. It is therefore time to move on and ban all forms of bisphenols. Another area where we Christian Democrats want to tighten up the rules is the use of lead in products aimed at children. Among other things, in electronic toys but also in children's porridge and oatmeal, alarming levels of lead have been measured. The Christian Democrats want the EU acquis to give individual countries greater opportunities to introduce stricter rules for environmental reasons in order to take precedence over environmental policy. The opportunity currently available to an individual EU country is the so-called environmental guarantee contained in the Treaty of Lisbon. The environmental guarantee provides an opportunity for an EU country to maintain or introduce stricter requirements than the common environmental legislation requires. It is the European Commission that decides whether or not to allow the legislation. The Commission's assessment includes determining whether the law constitutes a hidden barrier to trade or otherwise violates the internal market. Therefore, it is now necessary for the Member State in question to have special circumstances which justify stricter rules than the common rules. We believe that the European Commission and the European Court of Justice interpret the environmental guarantee too strictly in practice. Nanoparticles have many uses, but we still know too little about how people and the environment are exposed to the material, whose risk, spread and exposure are not sufficiently known today. In this case, the existing legislation is inferior. EU chemicals legislation, REACH, has a limit which states that all imports and manufactures of chemical substances over one tonne per year and manufacturers must be registered. As nanomaterials are often used or imported in very small quantities, it risks falling below the threshold of this requirement, which means that the current legislation cannot fully provide the information needed to assess risks and, if necessary, take the necessary measures. The Christian Democrats believe that the European Commission should also explore other ways of ensuring safe handling of nanomaterials, such as complementary legislation on nanomaterials. The government should work for this within the EU. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention endocrine disruptors, which are another source of concern. The EU must step up the pace of phasing out or restricting the use of these substances. The government should work to update the European Commission's strategy on endocrine disruptors as soon as possible.
i-YCMW2h2D2swSk3DiBiBZdm	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister Gabriel Wikström and Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-59fdffdb05466285-248	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. One of the major challenges facing Swedish schools is the lack of teachers. Figures show that there will be a lack of between 65 000 and 100 000 teachers in the coming years. In addition, according to a report from the Teacher Association, 38 000 trained teachers have abandoned their profession in recent years. We need more ways in and back to the teaching profession. The Teach for Sweden programme combines studies in leadership with internships for future teachers. We Moderates want to add SEK 50 million to the programme so that more academics can become teachers. In its budget, the Government has allocated only SEK 18 million to supplementary education programmes, of which only 7 go to Teach for Sweden.
i-59fdffdb05466285-252	Mr President, I would like to I thank Camilla Waltersson Grönvall for the question that raises one of the most serious things we have to work on. We have a great shortage of teachers that has been building up for a long time. The teaching profession has fallen behind, and we have trained too few teachers in relation to how many we need. It is therefore a good thing that the trend is now reversed. The teaching profession is perceived as one of the real future professions, more and more people are seeking teacher training and teachers are staying in the profession and choosing to further train themselves. The number of applicants for special teacher training has increased tenfold in one year. That the trend is reversed we will use. One way is to expand Complementary Educational Training, KPU. We're expanding a lot. It's a good suggestion from the Moderates to focus on expanding it. There's a part, a little piece of the puzzle in this. In the context of the national collection of teachers which the government has had with the unions and the parties, it is pointed out that this is something we should look further at. It should be with the KPU and more other ways into the teaching profession.
i-59fdffdb05466285-257	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. The fact remains: we need to find more ways into the teaching profession. The increase in the number of students in certain parts of the regular teacher education is gratifying. But within the major flaws, not least mathematics and science, we see that the KPU is one of the most successful ways to go. I would therefore like answers to what the Minister intends to do to open up more paths to the teaching profession. Can I have an answer, please?
i-59fdffdb05466285-260	Mr President, I would like to The national collection for the teaching profession lands in investigation directives that will review this widely and have a number of focus areas, both the KPU and how to broaden their competence. The specific shortage of teachers in mathematics and science is a problem throughout the Western world. Those who have succeeded best are those who have opened the way for academics and other teachers to broaden their qualifications with math and science. We should expand this in Sweden as well. But it is more possible today than it was under the previous government.
i-59fdffdb05466285-262	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Fridolin who also answers horizontal questions. We all wish to contribute to a sustainable society. That integration is the most important issue we have, both we in politics and the whole of the Swedish people agree on. We have received many new arrivals, and they want to contribute. What concrete measures is the government taking with regard to integration? Last year we received 160 000 new arrivals, and in 2014 – 2015 it was a quarter of a million. How will all those of working age get to work? Outsiders are a ticking bomb. Gothenburg, from which I come, is one of the most segregated cities. Six of the most vulnerable areas where criminal gangs have taken over are located in Gothenburg.
i-59fdffdb05466285-268	Mr President, I would like to I thank Roland Utbolt for the question. I share the description of the problem, which actually consists of two different problems that are linked. One is that many people have come to Sweden and quickly want to be able to contribute in their new country. The second is that we have for a long time had growing gaps in Sweden that led to segregation and exclusion. Young people grow up in areas where it is more common to lack a job than to have one, which makes it difficult to feel faith in the future. This is why the government is deliberately investing both in breaking the segregation – the Prime Minister focused on this in the party leader debate yesterday – and on efforts to enable newcomers to get into work quickly. An important part is the possibility of simple jobs. I am proud of the extensions of the RUT deduction that we are making in the migration agreement with, among others, the Christian Democrats. Another part is to have more training opportunities for those who need to supplement their education. I am proud of the fast track we have in order, for example, to take advantage of and use the experience of the teachers who come to Sweden.
i-59fdffdb05466285-273	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Many of the people who will be traumatized because they have fled war-torn areas. There is a great deal of mental illness as a result of the flight across the Mediterranean and so on. We know these stories. What do you do with the mental part? It is a good thing to build modular housing, but what concrete proposals does the government have to help people with mental illness? We Christian Democrats have ideas, but I can present them in a different context. What's the government doing?
i-59fdffdb05466285-276	Mr President, I would like to I thank Roland Utbolt for widening the question. Jobs are very important, and it is also important for mental health to feel that you are able to contribute in your new country. But that's not the only thing. Investing in well-developed care is also important. In my area of government, it is important to expand pupil health, which of course gets completely different tasks when many students have traumas. Here we invest money, because in the end it is a matter of prioritising resources that enable us to expand health care and pupil health. The municipalities now have the opportunity to apply for money for it.
i-59fdffdb05466285-279	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for the Environment Skog. Small-scale hydropower has been on the wallpaper during the spring. The Parliament has issued two announcements, including one that special consideration should be given to: the development of a new regulatory framework for small-scale hydropower and water activities. The energy agreement reached last Friday also addresses small-scale hydroelectric power and raises, among other things, a fund to help small-scale hydroelectric power plants to take environmental measures. Of course, everyone must bear their responsibility to help combine production and the environment, but this must be done with reasonableness in terms of balancing costs and actual environmental benefits. A new regulatory framework and a fund solution will take time to develop. Many people are in a tough situation, and some people are in danger of going into personal bankruptcy because of the state-of-the-art process. Is the Minister prepared to act to help the owners of small-scale hydropower who are being squeezed while waiting for a new regulatory framework to come into place?
i-59fdffdb05466285-286	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for a highly topical issue, not least in relation to the energy agreement that has been made. We are proud that it grasps both the big and the small issues, including small-scale hydropower. The conclusion reached in the agreement has just been submitted to the responsible authority, which is now analysing it to see what action is to be taken next and whether it affects the direct work of the agency. We must give the Authority time to analyse this. I won't jump to conclusions about what to do.
i-59fdffdb05466285-288	Mr President, I would like to It has long been announced that a new regulatory framework will be developed for licensing processes for small-scale water activities, so it is not exactly a new issue. There are probably many of us in here who have met people who are desperate because they will not make it economically unless a new regulatory framework is awaited. Will the Minister be able to support a temporary suspension of re-examination and re-evaluation of activities pending a new regulatory framework?
i-59fdffdb05466285-291	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the energy agreement is a few days old. Responsible authority is analysing the work right now. They must be allowed to do so before I, as a minister, anticipate what they need to do in terms of how the new agreement affects the work that is going on. I await the information I can get from the authority and will not anticipate their work.
i-59fdffdb05466285-294	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. We see that the use of IT in school offers great opportunities both as an educational tool in teaching and as an administrative tool for teachers and staff. The positive effects of IT education can be demonstrated precisely in terms of school outcomes, but it can also be seen that it is very different in terms of the equivalence of use. This is largely due to the fact that there may not be a well-thought-out education, an IT plan or sufficient infrastructure. Much is based on the fact that school leaders and teachers have the necessary skills and that they have the conditions and interest.
i-59fdffdb05466285-298	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question! I think it was a little Gert Fylking – you know, and finally! When the government took the decision to develop an IT strategy for the school. Digitalisation is not entirely new but has been going on as a major development in not least school for a long time, but the lack of a national strategy and the reluctance of the previous government to develop a strategy made the digital divides grow. The school should not widen gaps. The school will bridge gaps. Everyone will need digital skills in the future in the labour market, and then the school will provide this skills. It should not be decisive which school you go to or which teacher you happen to have. Now we have a proposal for an IT strategy on the table focusing on precisely what Mr Hedin is addressing, namely equality. It ensures that all schools have a good IT work. We have got the first part to the government for trial, and it has clear and good objectives that I hope all the school leaders in Sweden will be able to come up with.
i-59fdffdb05466285-302	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. There is a great deal of research in this area. In 2009, the OECD reported that there are clear statistical links between IT use at home and results of 15-year-olds in mathematics. What is interesting is that the greatest measured effect was found among pupils from home with low-skilled parents. This shows the compensatory effect and underlines the importance of continuing to work on these issues. How does the Minister view the compensatory mission linked to the IT and IT strategy?
i-59fdffdb05466285-305	Mr President, I would like to This is the thing. It should not depend on how you live, where you grow up, what economy your parents have, what school you go to or what municipality you live in when it comes to bringing along the skills and knowledge you will need in the future on the labour market or as active in democracy. Being able to express yourself digitally is a very important part of being able to express one's views and take part in others' opinions today. That's why the IT strategy is needed, and it focuses on going from just about which machine to have in school to how to use the technology.
i-59fdffdb05466285-308	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. It has emerged that the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society has provided over half a million SEK in grants to an organisation that has hired lecturers who have expressed support for the terrorist organisations Islamic State in Iraq and Levanten and Al-Qaida. The government has reached an agreement with the four alliance parties on counter-terrorism measures. Part of this is that no public funds should go to organisations that spread violent messages. It has been written in the agreement that it is important for donors to ensure that public funds are not given to organisations that spread violent messages and that organisations live up to basic democratic values. My question to Anders Ygeman is: How will the Minister of the Interior ensure that the agreement is fulfilled and that it is checked that the organisations meet the requirements of the agreement?
i-YQsHwq5w83y6bkwcdbACTW	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anti Avsan, for the question! As Anti Avsan described, we fully agree that no government money should go to organisations that spread violent messages and do not stand up for democratic values. The government has taken care of this in the way that we have commissioned us to investigate new guidelines for licensing regarding both state and other organisations so that there is a uniform policy. Now we live with the policy of the previous alliance government.
i-59fdffdb05466285-314	Mr President, I would like to I wonder whether the Minister for the Interior will take steps to ensure that the agreement is indeed being implemented. I do not want to talk about individual cases, but information has emerged that leads to the conclusion that one might have to look at this. The agreement includes the possibility to recover aid which has been wrongly granted. Is the Minister of the Interior prepared to do this, and are there conditions for it?
i-59fdffdb05466285-316	Mr President, I would like to The answer to Anti Avsan's first question is yes. The reason why the government and the alliance parties agreed on the changes was that the current rules are not fulfilled. On a number of occasions, public funds have been distributed to organisations that do not live up to the basic democratic mandate established by the Riksdag and the Government. In both parts, it is important to ensure that money does not go to such things and that it is possible to recover the money if it turns out that the organisation does not meet the requirements.
i-59fdffdb05466285-319	Mr President, I would like to Drug development is taking place very quickly; new medicines are being completely sprayed out. As a consumer, one might think that it is the state that stands there and is a rigorous verifier, but that is not the case. It is clear that the state has handed over far too much responsibility to the pharmaceutical industry. It is the Swedish Medical Products Agency that will be responsible for the review of medicines, side effects and so on. Now, the Swedish National Audit Office has made rigorous reporting of what is happening and how it looks, and the influence of the pharmaceutical industry on state control of pharmaceuticals is relatively large. This is where the state, through its muscles, should stand up for public health, integrity and self-control. I wonder: who is going to hold the takpin when it comes to the assessment of medicine for us consumers – is it the state or the capital?
i-59fdffdb05466285-322	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is the state that should keep the takpin when it comes to regulating and authorising medicines. We can be proud that we in Sweden have a good process for this. Of course, however good it is compared to other countries, it is not free from mistakes and beauty spots. It is good that the Swedish National Audit Office has prepared its report. This means that we will have better knowledge of what we need to fix, and not least the Authority, in order to be able to meet the requirement of impartiality and independence of special economic interests. I am pleased that we have the report on the table, and it is of course the state that is going to hold the takpin.
i-59fdffdb05466285-325	Mr President, I would like to That's great. In the review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office, it turned out that the Swedish Medical Products Agency has chosen to prioritise its own security controls because they rely on the pharmaceutical companies to guarantee them through their influence. It's great that you're on the track there, Gabriel Wikström. How, then, will the government strengthen the state control of medicines? We have a good model, but if this continues, the risk is that we drop it straight down to the floor. Then it'll be hard to take it back.
i-59fdffdb05466285-328	Mr President, I would like to Just as Karin Rågsjö says, we have a good model, and we should not change it fundamentally. However, a good model also needs to be fine-tuned at all times. The report that has now come together with the ongoing dialogue with the agency helps us to ask questions about how the agency changes and prepares its procedures and also gives us a chance if it is something that the government needs to change.
i-59fdffdb05466285-330	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Gustav Fridolin and is of a general political nature. Not long ago, Swedish Radio reported about a former employee at the Migration Agency who testified that there was an unwritten law that new arrivals who appear to be younger than 40 years old and claiming to be minors should be treated as minors. The interviewer said that there were no tools and there were no clear guidelines from the management on how these matters should be dealt with, i.e. also sending 30-year-olds to HVB homes for minors. As a commentary, the operative director of the Migration Agency has said that employees have had no choice but to make arbitrary age assessments. This is unacceptable.
i-59fdffdb05466285-334	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the short answer to the question. Children should not have to live with adults in HVB homes. It is extremely important for children's security to live as children with children and have the security that it entails. It is also one of the reasons why the government has given a mandate to the responsible medical authority to see how to get functional age assessments. The problem has, of course, been that the models that have existed in the past have had very serious legal certainty deficiencies and other shortcomings.
i-59fdffdb05466285-336	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. The Finnish Immigration Service does not act in cases where it is not obvious that children are over 18 years of age. X-rays have been introduced in Norway and the United Kingdom, among others, which have automatically reduced the number of unaccompanied minors. Can Sweden, which has received a large number, not start with retroactive age assessments?
i-59fdffdb05466285-339	Mr President, I would like to We are a rule of law, and the rule of law does not apply retroactively – it would be completely foreign. But in cases where there is no legal application, we should be able to use the models that are customary and work. The problem has been that the models that have been used in the past have been found to have very significant legal certainty deficiencies. The medical profession has protested on the basis of its medical skills. That is why we agreed with several parties on a mission to an authority to develop working models.
i-59fdffdb05466285-341	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog. In the Government's budget, funding for protection and management of nature has increased by nearly SEK 1 billion per year. This includes SEK 590 million extra for protection of valuable nature and SEK 300 million extra for care of protected nature. This is a nearly 40% increase in appropriations compared with the budgets of bourgeois governments. Soon it is time for many of us to go on summer hiking tours in nature reserves and national parks. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment how this money has been distributed in the country and how we will notice these efforts.
i-HEZaSynV34gfpN4KaLS9P9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Stina Bergström, for the question! Of course, there are many with me who are now planning how to go into nature and use our leave there. This money is really noticeable around Sweden. They are distributed to the county boards according to a key, so that the money covers the whole country. The results are visible. From 2013 to 2015 we received 436 new nature reserves in Sweden. It improves the protection of biodiversity and the accessibility of many incredibly much. 332 kilometres of trails have been improved so that they will be available to many and it should be safe to walk there. This is also evident in the visitor statistics. In 2015, we had as many as 2.4 million visitors to Swedish national parks. It's a huge success.
i-59fdffdb05466285-347	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we make nature reserves available and also take the necessary conservation measures. But it is also important that we ensure that we protect, for example, the last remnants of our old forests.
i-59fdffdb05466285-349	Mr President, I would like to The money is used to improve the operation of existing nature reserves but also to protect more nature. During the years 2013 to 2015, 60,000 hectares of land were further protected in Sweden through, among other things, exchange land. Forests at state-owned Sveaskog have been replaced by forests with high natural values. The protection of Swedish forests has increased significantly.
i-59fdffdb05466285-351	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Wikström in his role as Minister of Health. Childbirth care around Sweden affects many people. Approximately 110 000 children are born each year in Sweden. For many, birth is an amazing experience. At the same time, we should know that it is also associated with some risks. That is why the quality of maternity care is extremely important. I would therefore like to ask the Government what we can expect from the additional resources that are now allocated to maternity care and what the government is doing in addition to this to strengthen maternity care.
i-59fdffdb05466285-354	Mr President, I would like to As Mathias Tegnér says, this is an extremely important activity in Swedish healthcare. Having children is probably the greatest experience you can have in life. The fact that it is surrounded with security and a focus precisely on the event itself and the newly redeemed child is extremely important. The anxiety that many people now feel, not least for the summer, is well worth taking very seriously. The Government, together with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, has concluded an agreement covering a total of SEK 720 million for 2015 and 2016. It is money to go to maternity care, to strengthen staffing, to pay student wages to those who want to train as midwives. In addition, the government has increased the number of places in midwifery education by 250 seats. We believe that this is important in order to strengthen maternity care throughout the country.
i-59fdffdb05466285-357	Mr President, I would like to As a person from Tyresö in Stockholm County, I closely follow developments in maternity care in the region. The midwife rebellion and numerous articles have revealed the shortcomings in maternity care here in Stockholm County.
i-59fdffdb05466285-359	Mr President, I would like to We have reached an agreement that means that a number of millions of SEK each year will go to maternity care in Stockholm County Council. With the basic problem behind the fact that Stockholm County Council's maternity care stands out is that they have conducted an ideological experimental workshop where they have played market with a part of health care that more than others should be run as needed and be protected for neoliberal experiments.
i-59fdffdb05466285-361	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. Homicide is always very serious. There is a particularly serious dimension when it happens in one school, when one student is threatening another. There is every reason to take it very seriously when this happens. It happened recently in the Stockholm area. Then the principal and teacher reacted clearly, sharply and well and decided to turn off the student who threatened another student to protect those who were vulnerable. The suspension was then extended by the City of Stockholm, but it was repealed by the Administrative Court, which creates uncertainty as to which rules apply. I am prepared, on behalf of the Liberals, to tighten up the legislation in order to provide greater clarity for teachers and principals on what should be done in order to maintain order, study and safety at school.
i-59fdffdb05466285-366	Mr President, I would like to It is of course terrible with the development that we see in many people-to-people professions with more threats and more violence, which unfortunately also affects parts of Skolsverige. The fact that you can act harshly, clearly and resolutely from the headmaster and headmaster is crucial. It is therefore a good thing that the Swedish school law provides this kind of opportunity in the case of comprehensive school. It is obviously a problem that these opportunities do not apply to the entire school system, as has been stated here. The School Act is written in broad collaboration and was presented by my predecessor Jan Björklund from Christer Nylander's party. I don't think he saw that flaw in the law at the time, and I don't think anyone else noticed it. Now it is noticed by a judgment. I have no reason to comment on the verdict. The verdict is correct based on the law that exists. But it is clear that there is a gap here. There's a reason we have different rules for elementary school.
i-59fdffdb05466285-370	Mr President, I would like to True, there was a broad agreement on many parts of the school law. But Gustav Fridolin own party was often negative, not least against the measures proposed on study and order in school. There are huge differences in priority between this government and the previous one in relation to these kinds of issues. My question is therefore: If Gustav Fridolin now thinks that there is a major problem, why does this government so rarely give priority to the kind of questions relating to study, security and the ability to be sure of the school?
i-59fdffdb05466285-372	Mr President, I would like to I'm telling you, Christer Nylander, you're making a fool of yourself. We focus on that there should be enough staff in Swedish schools to deal with the problems of order. There is no more important measure to tackle the problems of order than the fact that there are enough adults at school. Under the previous government nearly 10,000 employees were cut off from Swedish school. During our first two years, 13 000 employees have been reinstated. Many of them belong to the very type of staff categories that help teachers when you have problems with order. We are building a large national school development programme.
i-59fdffdb05466285-376	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Freedom of choice and diversity mean increased quality, increased power for the individual and several employers to choose from for the employee. Banning profit-making companies in education would reduce supply and alternatives, which would restrict citizens' choice. The profit-making operator has an incentive to develop quality in order to attract more customers. I see clear advantages in the school sector, for example, where most school leaders run a few schools. In fact, eight out of ten individual principals run only one primary school or a secondary school. My question is whether the Minister can state that there will be no government regulations prohibiting profits in welfare but instead supporting and encouraging individual entrepreneurs.
i-59fdffdb05466285-380	Mr President, I would like to No, I can't tell you that. We will work to ensure that those who receive a clear welfare assignment within the school, for example, can ensure that the tax money that goes into the business also benefits the students. I do not think it makes sense when we together pay taxes to a school and then read that that money ended up in a tax haven somewhere. I am concerned when short-term speculation is allowed to govern educational activities. The development we have seen in the school does not serve as a basis for Söder's analysis here. There we have rather seen a development where some really profit-maximizing actors have run the school so badly that it has disappeared and that instead idea-based actors have taken over. This was the case with, for example, the JB schools in this region taken over by Grillska high school, which is part of Stadsmissionen's activities as an idea-borne actor.
i-59fdffdb05466285-382	Mr President, I would like to It is quite interesting to hear the Minister for Education's answer. I put the same question to the Minister of Civil Affairs last week and got the answer that there will be no such regulation. Obviously you have a discussion within the government about how you want to see this. I would say that we have more problems in the welfare sector where we see that many of the different parts are going at a loss instead of profit. Instead, we should put our energies into ensuring that the welfare sector goes neutral rather than with losses and does not focus on profits.
i-59fdffdb05466285-384	Mr President, I would like to The interesting thing in this case is: What produces profit? We have many very serious actors in the free school business who deserve all the encouragement and who I think would pass the rule of ensuring that tax money that goes into the business also benefits the students. The fact that there have been actors who have cut the quality of their business and picked out money from it has seriously damaged confidence in freedom of choice. Since I believe in freedom of choice, I also believe that we need clear rules that guarantee what our tax money is spent on.
i-59fdffdb05466285-386	Mr President, I would like to The European Chemicals Agency makes quite different interpretations of the common EU rules from those in other countries. Sweden is now, as a result of the Authority's decision and the government's lack of action in the questions, the only EU country where a plant protection product needed, for example, for the cultivation of onions, can no longer be used. There is a risk that Swedish cultivation will be completely destroyed. It is bad for consumers who are now forced to buy worse products imported from countries where much more of the same funds are used. This also means that it is bad for the environment because we are thus exporting our environmental impact and contributing to increased global use of plant protection products, which we said we should not do. Last but not least, it is also bad for Swedish cultivation that risks being completely knocked out.
i-59fdffdb05466285-389	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. We last discussed it a few days ago in this House. I stated very clearly at the time that the government is protecting all parts of Swedish food production. But in the case of pesticides, it is important to have the roles clear. It is important to understand the European regulatory framework. The debate is largely based on misunderstandings in both parts. The role of the Agency is to examine applications submitted to the Authority. In this case, it has examined an application that did not meet the standards and was therefore not approved. It is not for the Authority to ensure the functioning of the market. But in order to help those producers who are dependent on pesticides, the government has set aside funds for more forward-looking work because those who use smaller parts can get caught up.
i-59fdffdb05466285-392	Mr President, I would like to These funds may be of some benefit in the long term. But this is an acute problem that has arisen now during the current growing season. We have today put forward six concrete proposals on what could be done to resolve this. The government has so far given the answer that you cannot and do nothing, and you hide behind the authority's decision. Unfortunately, it is difficult to interpret this otherwise than that the government is not prepared to do anything at all to solve the problem.
i-59fdffdb05466285-395	Mr President, I would like to Let us remember that this problem is far from new. The pesticide in question has had repeated exemptions for many years. The problem began to arise during the reign of the previous government. To grant repeated exemptions is not our answer to the security of Swedish food producers. We have set aside an appropriation for forward-looking work to find solutions for the future. The previous government didn't.
i-59fdffdb05466285-398	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. Men's violence against women has long been and still is one of the major problems we have in our society. Men can also be subjected to violence in close relationships. However, according to studies, violence against women has tended to be more severe and can lead more often to a need for medical care or even a fatal outcome. About 16 - 17 women die every 1 year as a result of abuse by men. It's usually men they've had a previous relationship with.
i-RqKkorC1UJbDy6nV1t6V7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sanne Eriksson, for the question! I would like to say that this is an area in which society has failed for many years. It is just as Sanne Eriksson describes. It has been a very steady development where we have not been able to repress men's violence against women. There's been a slight decline now. After the summer, we will present a comprehensive action plan, concrete proposals for action and legislative changes. I have also invited both opposition and majority representatives of the various women's associations to Almedalen in order to discuss what steps we should take to push back men's violence against women.
i-59fdffdb05466285-403	Mr President, I would like to Tack, the Home Secretary, for the answer! Recently we have been able to read a lot about the case of 41-year-old Lotta, who was beaten to death by a man with whom she had previously had a short-term relationship. According to information from fear of the man, Lotta was afraid to participate in the investigation, and so the case was closed shortly before her death.
i-59fdffdb05466285-406	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Sanne. The single most important measure to support abused women is that they should have access to a lawyer. We see that far more complaints lead to convictions when you get support from a plaintiff's assistant. This and other measures must be taken to increase the security of women in Sweden.
i-59fdffdb05466285-410	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. The government is happy to put its heart to the issue of employment and unemployment. A review published by DN a few days ago shows that the number of municipalities where the unemployment rate for foreign born is higher than 30 per cent has increased from 33 municipalities in 2011 to 108 municipalities this year. Thus, in 108 municipalities, unemployment is higher than 30 per cent for foreign born. In twelve municipalities, the unemployment rate for foreign born is over 50 per cent. At the same time, we have about 150 000 asylum seekers in the reception system. They are still not visible in those statistics.
i-59fdffdb05466285-413	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the question. The two most important measures to ensure that new arrivals can do what they want to do quickly, namely to contribute in their new country, are both training opportunities for those who need to supplement or validate their education and that there are more simple jobs for those who do not have a good education. It is about jobs that you can take before you master the Swedish language. We're making efforts for both of those parts. The employment rate of women born abroad is now growing quite strongly, and among men it is still stable. So it is moving in the right direction, even if it is going far too slowly. It is interesting that it is pointed out to the municipalities. I believe that an important part of this is to ensure that we have a more equal responsibility for the reception of new arrivals throughout Sweden, that all municipalities are involved in doing the job. As far as I am aware, this is precisely an effort that the Swedish Democrats are quite alone in resisting.
i-59fdffdb05466285-417	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister for Education mentioned, a problem that has been highlighted is the low level of education among asylum seekers. In Sweden in 2009 we had a doctor's density of 277 inhabitants. Among the asylum seekers who arrived in 2014 and 2015, we would need 880 doctors to keep that medical density. For example, only 41 people with adequate medical training were included in the start-up assignment in May 2015.
i-59fdffdb05466285-419	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to all welfare jobs – doctors but also school staff, social secretary and welfare in general – we have major recruitment problems in Sweden. We have prioritised down the professions that are most important for our society to function, in terms of pay and the working environment. That's exactly what this government is trying to turn around. We want to improve the working environment in healthcare, improve the working environment in school and raise teachers' salaries. And now we see that it is starting to have an effect on a number of areas.
i-59fdffdb05466285-421	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. Sweden is one of the countries with the greatest problems with recruitment to the Islamic State. We also have major problems with IS-returners. This calls for better preparedness. Unfortunately, in connection with the Brussels attack, there were individual Swedish citizens or people who stayed in Sweden who had links to the attack. We also need to strengthen the preparedness of refugee migration flows. Now the media are talking about another case that reinforces the need for better capacity. This is about an individual who came from Bosnia and who has applied for asylum in Malmö. It shows that the Schengen Information System, the so-called 'block list', clearly does not work. This person, who has previously been refused entry, is, despite the list, in Sweden.
i-59fdffdb05466285-426	Mr President, I would like to I have to be careful to comment on individual cases. This has been demonstrated not least by the review carried out by the Constitutional Committee. On the contrary, however, with regard to the Schengen Information System, this shows that the system works. The person was blocked in the Schengen Information System, SIS II, and was refused entry into Sweden. He then chose to seek asylum. According to the legislation that Roger Haddad and others have been involved in producing, his asylum application is being examined. But he's kept locked up during that period. And if there are no reasonable grounds for asylum, he will be expelled to the country from which he came.
i-59fdffdb05466285-428	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Home Secretary. This is one of several incidents in the terrorist package. I argue that even if the list of alerts works, the application does not work in reality in Sweden. This person has not only entered; he has also applied for asylum. I think that asylum should be for those who seek protection and not for us to be a haven for terrorists. When other countries have rejected this person, he has thus entered Sweden. What's Ygeman gonna do about this?
i-59fdffdb05466285-432	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad is misinformed. This person has been refused entry into Sweden. Then he applied for asylum. It is a right that a united parliament and all international law give this person. Waiting for his asylum reasons to be tried, this person is being locked up. It's no different from what it's been like before. If there are no grounds for asylum, he will of course be expelled.
i-59fdffdb05466285-435	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Gabriel Wikström. Too many sick people testify to difficulties in getting to see a doctor within a reasonable time, getting care and treatment, and thus being able to return to study and work. The huge care queues are an acute problem and are pressing already under pressure medical personnel but of course also the waiting patients. The government has removed the so-called queue billion. It was an incentive-led and successful reform introduced by the Alliance Government. The billions of dollars of profit introduced by the current government are funds without any consideration whatsoever. We see mass redundancies among desperate health professionals, not least in S ‐ controlled Sörmland. The growing care queues in the country coincide with the removal of queue billions.
i-59fdffdb05466285-440	Mr President, I would like to The queue billion that Lotta Finstorp and several often cherished took the Alliance away in its own budget for 2015. This suggests that the same analysis was carried out as the government, i.e. that it no longer served as an incentive to reduce queues. We saw an increase in queues already during the time of the queue billions. If you want to tackle this problem, you have to tackle the root causes. One of them is what Lotta Finstorp points to, the supply of expertise in health care. In order to tackle the supply of skills, I, together with the social partners and a number of other actors, including universities and colleges, have spent the year examining thematically what parts we need to improve – jointly or individually. Professional billions have also come into being to help solve the skills supply as such.
i-59fdffdb05466285-443	Mr President, I would like to Long-term sick leave often leads to passivity and can also impair the health of patients in the long care queues. In the final report of the Social Insurance Report, more security and better insurance, a change is proposed in the Health Care Act that clarifies the mandate for health care, with a focus on collaboration in order to get patients back to work as soon as possible.
i-59fdffdb05466285-445	Mr President, I would like to The efforts we are now making in this area are good. We can not least see increased collaboration between Försäkringskassan on the one hand and health care on the other. However, from a purely health-care perspective, we need to do more to shorten waiting times. I would like to highlight in particular the government's efforts to reduce waiting times in cancer care, but also to increase equality across the country. It is a methodology that we can certainly use in more areas of health care.
i-59fdffdb05466285-448	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Gabriel Wikström. I often get the question: Why do you work with cultural and sports politics? The answer has always been quite simple. For me, culture and sport are something that unites people. It creates meeting places and teaches us to cooperate. It also teaches people that everyone – no matter who I am, where I come from and what background I have – has the same right to participate in the fantastic world of culture and sport. Furthermore, sport has a great opportunity to promote greater integration, and this is also something that the government has taken on board and allocated money for. But the refugee situation has now entered a new phase where our challenges are different from last autumn. My question is therefore: how does the sports movement live up to our expectations with the new challenges we face, not least in view of the financial support it receives?
i-59fdffdb05466285-452	Mr President, I would like to It is just as Anna Wallentheim says, that Swedish sports movement can mean a lot for integration. It has also done so, not least during the difficult time that we have behind us in part. The government, of course, in consultation with the sports movement, has seen this and wanted to contribute in such a way as to give an annual grant of SEK 64 million in addition to some SEK 133 million in general increases in funding for Swedish sports. This money goes to build stronger associations so that they can contribute to new arrivals getting sensible leisure activities and also a first foot into Swedish society. The sports movement has during this period built up a structure around Sweden. It is well suited for the next phase that you are now entering. It is about working not only with new arrivals, but also with people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden and need to enter Swedish society.
i-59fdffdb05466285-455	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. I am very pleased that the government is following up on these issues. However, in addition to the possibility of promoting good integration, sport, as I have said, has an enormous potential to raise important issues. Sport can teach participants, leaders, parents and spectators that we live in a country where you have the right to be who you want and love who you want.
i-59fdffdb05466285-458	Mr President, I would like to The LGBTQ issues have, of course, been highlighted in the context of sport. It has been shown that sport has not always been on its toes. This has been taken very seriously by the Swedish sports movement. We have seen several well-lawed works around the country, not least hockey in Kiruna. But we can also see that the Swedish Sports Federation is now taking a greater approach to the issue in order to contribute more systematically and across all sports movements to its welcoming LGBTQ people as well.
i-59fdffdb05466285-459	Mr President, I would like to Minister for Education! There are many sparkles of light in Swedish school, but there are also some black spots. Not least, digitalisation is limping. It does not produce the right results. But the black hole is teacher training in Sweden. There are basically no computers. Teachers cannot teach how computers sharpen their methods and dida kik in the classes. I have visited quite a few teacher training courses in Sweden, and there is a gap in the rooms where the computers should have stood.
i-59fdffdb05466285-463	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the question, Michael Svensson! It is not usually part of my job description to praise the previous government, but one of the things that landed well during the previous government was the reform of teacher education. There is still much to be done, not least with regard to the possibility of switching tracks, to broaden their competence and to be able to rely on other than the fixed combinations. Then comes the challenge that Michael Svensson pointed out here, namely what is about really being prepared for the reality that is being faced in the classroom. Swedish- as- second language eligibility is a part, special pedagogy is a part and digitalisation is a part. Now we have received the proposal for an IT strategy from the Swedish National Agency for Education. I intend to ensure that there can be views on it before the government makes its final decision. I am quite convinced that one of those points will be linked to the training of teachers.
i-59fdffdb05466285-467	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Now we have an autonomy for higher education institutions and universities in Sweden. My question will then be as soon as possible: how does the Minister of Education want to tackle this problem? I mean, it's urgent. Perhaps it should have been done in the past as well. But one key is that teachers are able to teach. It also includes, of course, the need for a upgrading of the skills of existing teachers.
i-59fdffdb05466285-468	Mr President, I would like to After all, the latter is included in the IT strategy with regard to the proposal on skills development. The problem with teacher education is the combination of autonomy that we basically all defend and a very detailed exam description. This means that you rarely invest in what is not included at higher education institutions and what you discover along the journey is really needed. Now my colleague Helene Hellmark Knutsson, together with the higher education institutions, is out talking to representatives in the regions.
i-59fdffdb05466285-472	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister Wikström. Young people's mental illness is one of the greatest challenges of our time. About one in five young people experiences anxiety or other symptoms. Ultimately, this creates enormous individual suffering, but it is also a major challenge for our society. A young person with mental illness has less chance of passing his studies, which of course also leads to worse chances of getting a job. Early detection and rapid intervention are crucial for meeting these people. My question to the Government is therefore: what measures has the government taken to improve the situation of young people with mental illness?
i-59fdffdb05466285-475	Mr President, I would like to That is a very urgent question that Yasmine Larsson is asking. We see how mental illness increases and crawls further down in the ages. This is why the government has taken an interest in the field of mental illness. This means, among other things, that we invest close to half a billion SEK per year on young people's mental illness. Now we need to build up exactly what Yasmine Larsson is asking, namely the opportunity to meet young girls who feel bad early. These structures are lacking in many places. That's why we've given extra money to the country's youth clinics so they can work better with this problem. We have invested money in student health so that it can meet children and young people who feel bad already in school. We have also invested in the work of municipalities and care in general. Overall, this means that we can work more preventively and invest more preventively.
i-59fdffdb05466285-479	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. The work of preventing and meeting mental ill health among young people is a responsibility that we are many who share. These are actions at national level, as well as actions at municipal and county level. NGOs are also making a huge contribution here.
i-59fdffdb05466285-481	Mr President, I would like to As I said, voluntary organisations are very important in this work. Through a more stable structure where we have strengthened primary care, youth clinics and student health in school, we can also contribute to the spread of knowledge about how to work with mental ill health and come closer not least to voluntary organisations that can thus get both tools and skills to work with young people's mental ill health.
i-59fdffdb05466285-483	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by congratulating Malmö University on today's announcement that it is also possible to call itself a university. This is unique. No such appointments have taken place since 2010, and before that there was actually a waiting period of six years when governments of different denominations did not grant higher education institutions to call themselves universities. I know there are several colleges knocking on the door to get this opportunity. In order for other universities to know what actually applies, I would like to ask the Minister: What educational and research policy reasons are there?
i-59fdffdb05466285-485	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying, I think, that we as government and Helene Hellmark Knutsson as responsible Minister of State have been able to announce that the application from Malmö University should be processed in such a way that we will be able to start the process that is necessary for Malmö University to become a university. It is clearly pointed out that Malmö University is different from other higher education institutions: it is the largest, and it has more research environments and degree opportunities than, I think, all other higher education institutions – at least more than several of the smaller and newer universities. It also has a priority that will be recognized in the research proposal that will come.
i-59fdffdb05466285-487	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. What one might nevertheless wonder is that it will also mean that new resources will have to land at Malmö University, or the future Malmö University. That is why it is essential that other higher education institutions also know, perhaps more detailed than the Minister for Education has now said, on what grounds they have the opportunity to get a new chance.
i-59fdffdb05466285-488	Mr President, I would like to This will, of course, be detailed in the research proposal that will come. But we are now pointing to a number of things that are about the breadth and size of Malmö University, about the degree opportunities there and that one succeeds well with some of the priorities we here have in common. I believe, for example, that 70 percent of the students at Malmö University are first-time academics, as they put it. It is a priority that I think we share – that we want to break the social skewed recruitment to the higher education and university world. So there are a number of priorities here that we are clear about and will be clear about in the research bill.
i-59fdffdb05466285-490	Mr President, I would like to My two questions go to Anders Ygeman. I hope to have time to ask both questions. The first concerns traffic police, many of which are now about to retire. We also have the problem of illegal domestic traffic, which affects serious hauliers who cannot compete on equal terms. It is also a major problem for road safety and because people are being exploited on slave-like conditions. What the government has already done has, of course, had some effect: the possibility of squeezing and locking the combination, increased fines and so on. Nevertheless, there is concern that so many traffic police are now retiring. What's the minister gonna do about it?
i-59fdffdb05466285-492	Mr President, I would like to I only got one question, to be said. It's true that we have an aging traffic police force. As far as heavy traffic is concerned, it is therefore gratifying that car inspectors are now being recruited in six out of seven police regions. This is a professional group specialised in carrying out precisely the control of heavy production requested by Monica Green. We have also achieved a great deal of success with the law on complaints, powerful penalties and the ability to trample vehicles until the penalty fee is paid.
i-59fdffdb05466285-495	Mr President, I would like to Another problem there is alcohol. There are now a lot of people living in their cars, and then it is more normal that you actually drink alcohol. This is more difficult to access if it is not possible to carry out checks along the roads in the country. A heavy vehicle weighing 40 tons can cause a huge amount of trouble with a full driver.
i-59fdffdb05466285-496	Mr President, I would like to I think I still don't understand a question, but I can still try to answer a question. A very important thing we do to reduce the problem of alcohol-affected drivers on the roads is that we are now introducing alcoboms in some of our biggest ports. In this way, we are preventing them from getting out on the road at all, and I believe that it will be a powerful measure to increase compliance on our roads.
i-59fdffdb05466285-499	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Fridolin. The other week, the Prime Minister chose to describe one of Sweden's most popular schools with the claim that they are now selling their students. My question to the responsible Minister is whether the Prime Minister's slumped statement is something that is supported by the responsible Government and the other Government.
i-59fdffdb05466285-501	Mr President, I would like to I think it was good that the Prime Minister in the party leader debate problematized the fact that parts of Swedish schools have become a speculative market. I think it's dangerous if speculation is to begin to influence educational choices, and it's the risk in the long run, whether it's venture capitalists who are pushing – I remember quite clearly that the previous government, not least the then Finance Minister Anders Borg, was very careful that they didn't want – or whether it's the short-term speculation on the stock exchange that will govern the road choices in Swedish schools. Therefore, I think it was a good thing that the Prime Minister problematised this and pointed out that our solution forward is simply to demand from those who are trusted to run our – I'm sorry, Gabriel – finest welfare mission, namely to give our children a good education, that they promise that the money that comes from taxpayers comes to the students.
i-59fdffdb05466285-502	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Government does not really want to answer my question. Is Lövven's statement that 60 000 children in Sweden are for sale something that is supported by the responsible Government? With regard to speculation, I can say that the millions of voters who voted for the Red-Green Government have probably accounted for the greatest speculation.
i-59fdffdb05466285-504	Mr President, I would like to I think that was supposed to be funny, but I didn't really follow. You'll have to explain later, Erik. The stock exchange is a market for speculation. That is quite correct. The stock exchange is meant to be able to get fast capital into operations, invest money and interest them quickly, and what I understood was precisely the kind of quick cut that was made during the IPO. I'm just not sure whether that kind of driving force will guide the educational choices made in Swedish schools. I'm worried about the effect of that.
i-59fdffdb05466285-506	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to put my question to Minister Gustav Fridolin. Swedish school is lagging behind. Unfortunately, it also causes our students to lag behind and not reach far enough. There are many of us involved in this. But it requires not only commitment but also concrete proposals that work. We in the Moderates have prioritised a number of such, above all a proposal for more teaching time. With that suggestion, each student can get an hour more with his teacher every day. My clear yes-or-no question to the Government is: Does he want Swedish students to receive an hour more teaching per day or not?
i-59fdffdb05466285-509	Mr President, I would like to No, not in the foreseeable future. The simple reason is the lack of teachers, which was also the subject with which a moderate began Question Time. I am not at all sure that the quality of the education will be improved by the same teacher having to teach more and thus have less time to prepare, create quality in his teaching and take that conversation with a student alongside. It is good that we are discussing teaching time. We agree to increase teaching time in mathematics. Such a bill is on Parliament's table. But increasing teaching time in itself is not the only remedy to ensure that all students reach the goals. Perhaps you should focus more on those students who need help most, and that is why we are expanding homework help and summer school. Now that the students have been on summer holidays, more students than ever before in Sweden are actually given the opportunity to read the eligibility in the summer, because we have improved and increased the state grants for this.
i-59fdffdb05466285-512	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Fridolin. For a long time the government has promised a food strategy for Sweden. Around the country there is much hope for this food strategy. Expectations are high. However, there is one concern: we have only heard about it. We haven't seen it yet. It was first due to be completed in March. Then it would be ready by the beginning of June. One might ask, What is the concern? Are there any concerns in the government that won't get you together the last one? Will the food strategy be completed before the Parliament takes a summer break?
i-59fdffdb05466285-516	Mr President, I would like to I love it when government politics is longed for! There will be a very good food strategy of the processes under way and the deep consultation that is taking place with all those who are involved in running the Swedish food industry. The strategy will respond to many of the important challenges that exist. It is true that this has been waited a long time for. There were many of us waiting for eight years of government with the Alliance. There were many who over those years demanded that we have a food strategy and waited month after month, year after year. It was eight years without a food strategy. The fact that it has now been a month longer than the original timetable may have happened if the strategy, once it comes, really responds to the challenges that exist. However, I will not present a timetable here, but it will be presented by the responsible Minister, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht.
i-59fdffdb05466285-520	All 24 Members who have wanted to ask a question have had to do so. I would like to thank the fellow Members and the Minister for this Question Time, which is now closed.
i-59fdffdb05466285-521	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report on the environmental code and EU chemicals legislation as a whole to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. The debate we have here today has clearly shown that there is a great and broad commitment to the issues of chemicals. I'm glad to hear that. What is fundamental to the Government's chemicals policy is the focus on the objectives adopted by the Riksdag and the Government, which are part of the national environmental objectives system. It consists of a generational objective, 16 environmental quality objectives and intermediate targets for different areas. The environmental quality target Non-toxic environment is and has been an important starting point for Swedish chemicals policy and the positions that Sweden has made within the EU and internationally. Mr President, I would like to We live in a world full of chemicals. Some of them contribute to a modern and comfortable everyday life. Others are dangerous and can damage health and the environment. Chemicals are something that concerns us all, for we humans come into contact with them in different ways: through the food we eat, through the clothes we wear and through hygiene products. We heard earlier how Mr Yngwe described his morning routine in detail. I will not do the same, but I can say that it is going a little faster for me and that I use slightly fewer products, so I may not get in touch with as many chemicals. In Sweden you should be able to feel safe with our own health and that of our children. Nevertheless, handling chemicals is not always safe. We know that, and one group that is particularly exposed to chemicals is the children. We know that many toys contain different types of chemicals, and we have documented that traders may not always have the track that one might wish for on these issues. Work environment issues are also something that we take seriously. This includes investments made by the government in the case of a non-toxic environment. In this way we create the conditions for a better health with reduced incidence of allergies and asthma. As a consumer, you shouldn't have to be a chemist to clear out purchases in a good way. It should be easy to make smart and safe choices. What's better should be cheaper. And for the public, it is good if we have clear chemical requirements for public procurement, which we are now developing. Mr President, I would like to The issue of sustainable management of chemicals must be included in strategies and solutions at global level to promote sustainable development. A long-term sustainable circular economy requires hazardous substances to be phased out from cycles. In order to achieve non-toxic and resource-efficient cycles, better coordination of waste, chemicals and product legislation within the EU is needed. There are two principles that are important for achieving a nontoxic everyday life and a nontoxic environment. The first is that new chemicals are not used until we know they are harmless. The second is to make the use of dangerous substances more expensive and to ban the most dangerous. That is the starting point for government policy. Work on chemicals is a high priority for the government. It was mentioned in the government declaration. Some of the most important priorities have already been addressed. It is about the non-toxic preschools and the strengthening of chemicals legislation, particularly in the EU. But we also see, of course, a number of other challenges. Some of them have already been mentioned here in the debate. These are measures against plastic litter in the seas, microplastics in cosmetics and endocrine disruptors in construction products, fire foam and drinking water. Economic instruments have been requested by parties on both sides of the block border, and before the elections we were also several parties, both on the right and on the left, calling for a chemical tax. With the proposal for a chemicals tax now being prepared by the government and beginning to reach its final point, our contact with chemicals that could harm our health is expected to decrease. The chemical tax will benefit producers and consumers who opt out of hazardous chemicals. The ambition is to make it more expensive for producers who continue to use bad chemicals instead of moving to better alternatives. This is one of several important steps for the future. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has been and is an example in terms of both national and international chemicals policy. As a Socialist representative of the Parliament's Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, I am pleased to see the broad commitment that exists in this House among almost all of the parliamentary parties. This commitment exists both in the cooperation government and among several parties of the opposition. That is a good starting point for the future. The action plan for a non-toxic everyday life and work on it have been an important part of the overall strategy for achieving the environmental quality objective of a non-toxic environment during both the former and the present government. Work on the action plan has not only intensified in recent years, but we have also ensured that the Chemicals Inspectorate has received resource reinforcements. This has resulted in strong work on these issues. As we know and as has been mentioned before, chemicals regulations are largely harmonised within the EU, but there are examples where Sweden has introduced its own bans which have later been passed on in the form of EU regulation or regulation at global level. That is, of course, pleasing. If there are more such areas that we can identify, it is clear that Sweden should also be a front country. An important part of chemical work is, of course, to work towards developing EU chemicals legislation. Sweden, I am pleased to say, belongs to the group of Member States that have submitted the most proposals for action on health and environmentally hazardous chemicals. But there are still some challenges ahead. In the discussion on endocrine disruptors, things are happening right now. Mr Yngwe spoke earlier about the former bourgeois government, which brought proceedings before the European Court of Justice for delaying the development of criteria for endocrine disruptors. Yesterday we received a message that the European Commission has finally presented a proposal on these criteria. Unfortunately, the proposal is inadequate. The Agency quickly pointed out that the criteria risk being difficult to use precisely for the objective of increasing the protection of health and the environment. We're not happy with this. We met Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog this morning, and she told us that she will require clarification as early as Monday. Here too, then, the government will act decisively. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats once formulated the idea of the Green People's Home. Politics is about wanting and prioritising, and when politics is at its best it is also used to make the earth a better place to live for present and future generations. Together, we can make a difference. We have shown it before, and we will show it again – for the future and for the sake of our children.
i-59fdffdb05466285-540	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by saying that I do not have any mineral powder on me, but I hope that you will still be able to listen to what I am saying. We are here today to debate the environmental code, the EU chemicals legislation and the general exercise that deals with chemicals and a non-toxic everyday life. I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the report and the proposal and rejection of all motions. As we have just heard from Mr Büser, and before Question Time by the other parties, this is a subject that is engaged and in which we often have a fairly broad consensus in committee. And it's lucky that things like a nontoxic everyday life and a nontoxic preschool are something we want to work for together, because the opposite would have been strange. Living in a toxic everyday life is not very appealing. Unfortunately, that is what it means when we say that we want a nontoxic environment. Many of the poisons we have around us have also introduced ourselves, often as solutions to other problems. Many have come as a salvation. Take, for example, a substance such as DDT, an insect poison introduced sometime in the 1940s. The explorer, a Swiss named Müller, even received the Nobel Prize for Discovery – at last there would be an end to insect-borne diseases such as malaria and typhoid disease! You saw it as a salvation. Today, however, we know that DDT was incredibly environmentally toxic and had many backsides, and it has long been forbidden to use. Here in Sweden we saw it especially when our sea eagles were being exterminated because their eggshells simply did not become durable enough to cope with a hatch. Now we have reversed the trend and got rid of it, but there are many other topics that have come as a salvation that would remedy things– and proved not to be what was believed. TBT, PCBs and hormoslyr are examples of this. At the same time, we have developed new subjects, which have become new underdoers but for which the research is now warning. We must take the warning signs seriously so that we do not make the same mistake again. Take, for example, a group of substances such as high-fluorinated substances. They have the collective name PFAS, and then they got subsets like PFOS and so on. It is a group of chemicals that have dirt and water repellent properties, and it is very useful. The main use we know is in fire foam. It is clear that something that gets rid of water is great if you are to be able to extinguish fires quickly, but it has also been shown that the substances are incredibly persistent. This means that they are now found in wells and water near, for example, airports and training places where fire foam has been used. The substances are still there, and since they have such an incredibly long degradation time-- if they're even degradable-- it's just getting more and more. However, the substances are not only used in fire foams, because they have good properties. In our frying pans that we have at home, which were so good when they came because they didn't get the meat stuck and burned, there is PFAS. In our sportswear and shoes there is PFAS. These substances have many, many uses. However, animal experiments have now shown that they are both endocrine disrupting and carcinogenic, so there is great reason to be careful – especially since they remain in nature for so long. This morning, for example, we could hear in the Science Radio that otters still have incredibly high levels of high-fluorinated substances in the body, even though we have begun to phase them out from many products. The government has done quite a lot after it began to realize the problem. There has been an investigator who looked at how it could be that we suddenly have very high levels of high fluorinated substances in drinking water wells but have not noticed it until now. The investigator has proposed that registers should be strengthened so that substances can be present even at low concentrations or concentrations below the limit value, as they remain and accumulate so that they together become much. The Agency has also been given the task of developing an action plan and an action plan and looking at how we should have national regulations on this and how we should work at EU level. An action plan is to be drawn up on how to ensure that the whole of Europe is involved in this. We also have a survey of the use of high-fluorinated substances under way. Here we see how we have to work systematically for this. Another group that has been up is the endocrine disrupting substances – now PFAS is also endocrine disrupting – and there we have also moved on with the plan of action for a non-toxic environment we have had in the past. As many before me have said, it is perhaps in schools and preschools that it is most important to start to clean up and remove these topics because people who are growing, that is, our children and young people, seem to be the ones who are most affected by this. The procurement authority will develop help for procurement for a non-toxic preschool and a non-toxic everyday life, and you should have an action plan and a municipal network so that you can get this together and also be helped by the good examples. After all, it is important to test substances before they come onto the market. Today, the order is almost the opposite. I'll let everything out. Then something turns out to be toxic or affect us, and then you should start banning and withdrawing the substance. It is a reverse burden of proof that is almost only found in the chemical field and that we rather jointly do not want in Sweden. We have also worked to get into the REACH programme that a substance should be approved before it is released. In March this year, we set up an investigation into how hazardous substances that already exist can be replaced by less dangerous alternatives, so that we gradually get better and better alternatives – where they exist. The centre we hope to see will also offer knowledge to companies, researchers and others who work with chemicals on how to produce sustainable, non-toxic products. It is about that there will be new research and new methods and that one should be able to take help from each other. We heard earlier that these substances are all around us. We know that they are affecting us, and we are also beginning to sense that they are affecting us together through the so-called cocktail effect. But we don't really know what it's like. In the past, it was perhaps a little easier — a drop of poison caused stomach pain, as I say, and two drops caused death. Then it was poison, and it had a skull on the bottle. Now you may get three drops of something when you lie in your mother's stomach, two drops of something else later in life and then a third drop of another substance. Together, they affect people in their 50s. That is what we do not know today, and we must allow the precautionary principle to prevail. The research available shows that we may live with a rather frightening reality. We have to do everything we can. From the Swedish side we therefore continue the work we have done and take it one step further. We will ban where we can, influence where we can and lead where we can.
i-NR1u7BKdWVV7fHVys5pETL	Mr President, I would like to The Government has proposed an amendment to the Marketing Act and the Act on Terms and Conditions in Consumer Conditions. The proposal is called Strengthened sanctions for the Consumer Ombudsman. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. In short, the amendment means that the prohibitions and obligations that may be imposed by the Consumer Ombudsman under these laws shall no longer depend on the trader's consent and that the Consumer Ombudsman shall be given the opportunity to decide that such decisions shall apply immediately. The aim of the proposal is to provide the Consumer Ombudsman with effective and dissuasive sanctions, which is a prerequisite for further strengthening consumer protection. In view of the fact that the marketing law has changed in recent decades, in particular through the use of the internet and the problems encountered in certain consumer markets, the Government Office initiated a review of the KO sanctioning tool under the Marketing Act and the Consumer Contracts Act. It is therefore important that the KO is given the opportunity to intervene quickly against, among other things, unfair marketing without having to wait for the approval of the trader. This in itself contributes to more effective supervision and ultimately to a greater impact of the legal rules on the market. If compliance with market law rules increases, it benefits the consumer community and contributes to fairer competition. In the light of the requirements of EU law for effective and dissuasive sanctions and the current limit on the amount of the sanction being fixed some 20 years ago, the Government believes that this limit should also be increased. The new limit is set at a minimum of SEK 10,000 and a maximum of SEK 10 million. As before, the fee shall not exceed 10 % of the trader's annual turnover. Should the upper limit prove to be an obstacle to the effective application of the penalty, there may be reason to come back to the matter. At present, however, the committee believes that the higher limit is sufficient. The amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 October 2016. Finally, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank the office staff and wish them a pleasant summer. I would also like to wish the President a pleasant summer.
i-59fdffdb05466285-566	Mr President, I would like to Consumption is, of course, about sustainability for an environmental party. When we talk about sustainable consumption, it is easy to think about things that have to do with economic sustainability, the dangers of growth and so on. But the concept of sustainability also means social sustainability, and some of it is about trust between people. It's about trusting each other when you do business with each other. It's about trusting producers and companies that sell gadgets, whether the gadgets are physical or digital. Perhaps the distance from social sustainability to consumer rights may seem long, but for me it is precisely trust that is the crux of the matter. We as consumers need to be able to trust that the entrepreneurs we buy goods from are serious entrepreneurs and that rogue entrepreneurs are stopped. It is important, then, that sanctions discourage sellers from resorting to misleading marketing or unfair contractual terms, and that the Consumer Ombudsman has effective means of sanctioning when, after all, someone chooses to deliberately deceive others for the sake of his own profit. The Government's policy of strengthening sanctions for the Consumer Ombudsman entails both some deterrence, by increasing the fees, and that the Consumer Ombudsman becomes more effective when binding injunctions gain immediate legal force, without the trader's approval. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for the Left Party's motion to be rejected. However, the Left Party's follow-up motion addresses an interesting aspect. Is the highest limit sufficiently dissuasive? Now the levels are doubled, and the highest level is SEK 10 million. The government will monitor the development of practices. If it turns out that this is not enough, action will be taken. If it now turns out that 10 million does not mean anything to a large company and that it is worth risking a sanction fee is my hot tip that entrepreneurs should make sure to avoid being in grey areas where they can go on such a fee. Consumer law is still part of the sustainable construction of society. It's about building trust in each other. In consumer law, a piece of the puzzle is now being laid in which the Consumer Ombudsman has strengthened opportunities to act both efficiently and forcefully. In fact, I am thinking of the Consumer Ombudsman as a bit of a superhero fighting for those who have the least opportunity to defend themselves and who slap their fingers when they don't behave.
i-59fdffdb05466285-572	Mr President, I would like to We will now debate the report on the Government's letter A comprehensive strategy on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy 2016 – 2020. In addition to new objectives and strategies for the next five-year period, the letter also includes an evaluation of the strategy adopted by Parliament in very broad agreement in 2010 and which has been in force up to this year. As a Christian Democrat, I would like to say that it is very gratifying and reassuring that in this House there is a very great deal of consensus on the overall view of addiction issues. In general, we share the analysis of what risk and health factors exist and what basic strategies are needed to reduce long-term suffering as a result of addiction. I also understand that we are fairly in agreement on the importance of active prevention and that we all have an understanding of the enormous costs, in addition to human suffering, associated with the success or failure of drug abuse policy. I am therefore also pleased that the government is building mainly on the strategy developed under the leadership of the former responsible minister, Christian Democrat Maria Larsson. The Christian Democrats are mainly behind the government's assessments in the strategy. I say a lot, because we are not fully behind them. Mr President, I would like to We are concerned that, in some areas, it seems that the government is moving away from fundamental principles that the strategy itself highlights. My main concern is with the area of alcohol. For a long time, a reduction in total consumption has been a key part of the alcohol policy work in our country, and there has been a strong commitment to this. The scientific basis for this being a key element of prevention is safe and solid, and there has been strong political support for the total consumption principle. In the previous strategy, it was already clearly stated in the overall objective:- the objective is to prevent all harmful alcohol consumption, including by reducing consumption and harmful drinking habits. ..................................................... That priority can also be said to have been reasonably successful. From the peak quotation in 2004 with a consumption of 10.5 litres per person, it declined until 2010 to just over 9 litres per person and has then remained quite stable around that level. This is also highlighted in the evaluation part of the Government's letter, but when it comes to the objectives, it is missing. Instead, we can read in the new letter that alcohol, unlike the other substances, is accepted as part of our culture and therefore the overall aim is precisely to reduce the medical and social harm caused by alcohol. Total consumption has disappeared as a target; it is neither in the specific objectives nor in the overall objectives. That is worrying, we believe the Christian Democrats. Mr President, I would like to As elected political representatives and legislators, we have a very important role to play in prevention. It's a responsibility we're going to take on the fullest elves. However, our efforts are hopeless if we do not cooperate with and take the help of civil society. The most vulnerable and vulnerable are on this issue as on so many other issues the children – the hundreds of thousands of children growing up in a hazardous environment or even a substance abuse environment. In addition to direct legislation and action on substance abuse, other policies have a major role to play in protecting children. The most important thing for children is the home environment. It is about the support they receive at home, the support they receive from the family and from the parents. A well-developed, broad and present support for parents throughout their childhood is perhaps the most important contribution to preventing abuse. In the new strategy, the government has chosen to remove the specific target for children, referring to the fact that it will permeate all work. We Christian Democrats hope and believe that this will be the right way forward. But when you remove a target, there is always a risk of losing follow-up. I and the Christian Democrats are behind what is the committee's position. We assume that the government will follow up on this, so that this fear will not come true. Mr President, I would like to Of course, there are many other things to say. But we Christian Democrats support all our reservations. But for time winning, I only agree to reservation 5.
i-Cu8Xi7jRePa2Ahcv7LPoS3	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the SoU8 report. The report deals with the government's letter A comprehensive strategy for alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy 2016 – 2020. In addition, 20 requests for exercise received in connection with the letter and 120 requests for exercise from the general exercise period are discussed. Each individual is the most important starting point for Moderate politics and social engagement. Our values are shaped by our view of man. We know that all people have great abilities and opportunities to develop and grow as they face new challenges. At the same time, people sometimes face difficult situations and trials when they need support and help, sometimes more than society can. Sweden is one of the world's best countries to live in and grow up in. You can live a long and enriching life. It's supposed to stay that way. Sweden should be a country where everyone is seen, heard and listened to regardless of gender, age and background. Many people in Sweden are very well and live fantastic lives far up in the years. At the same time, there are children, young people and adults who are not well off. There are those who grow up and live in an environment that is sometimes directly harmful and dangerous. Long - term and widespread abuse of alcohol, drugs, doping agents, or tobacco is a threat to life. It's a fact. At the same time, the use of alcohol, for example in connection with meals, can be a great pleasure. Balance is as important here as in other parts of life. Conducting preventive health work is a matter of course, so that more people have access to new knowledge and proven experience. At the same time, people decide for themselves over their own lives. That doesn't mean you have the right to ruin other people's lives. For example, one does not have the right to destroy one's children's upbringing through widespread abuse, which means that one cannot give them the care and support to which all children and young people are entitled. We want to help people who need support, care and treatment. We will do this through a solid analysis where reality is viewed from different perspectives. Without analysis, we cannot deal with the shortcomings and challenges of today and tomorrow. The restrictive policies on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco that Sweden has pursued have served us well. However, this does not mean that there are no problems and challenges. There are many examples of such. The Moderates strive to find a balanced balance between, on the one hand, restrictiveness and, on the other hand, increased opportunities for, for example, farm sales of beer, wine and cider produced locally. We also want to continue to strive to reach closer to the vision of a Sweden free from drugs and doping. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention three societal challenges that we face in relation to alcohol, drugs and tobacco. There is a broad consensus in Sweden that we should pursue a restrictive alcohol policy. We strive to pursue, develop and modernise this policy at a time of new patterns and trends in the consumption of alcohol. Research shows that the extent of alcohol problems is largely due to the general level of consumption of alcohol in society. At the same time, research shows that age has an impact on the effects of alcohol on human health and well-being. There is a positive effect of low or moderate alcohol consumption in people over the age of 50 – if considered a single group. This two-part picture of alcohol is important to see and understand. In addition, new patterns and opportunities are emerging with regard to, for example, farm sales of locally produced alcohol to tourists. We Moderates want to enable farm sales of beer, wine and cider produced locally. Such activities should be carried out under controlled conditions in Sweden, with a retained monopoly for Systembolaget when it comes to selling alcohol. Cannabis is the most commonly used narcotics. In addition, it is the only drug group in the National Institute for Public Health's Health Survey – it is the only study that monitors the development of the population's drug habits. The results show that some 150 000 people have used cannabis at some point in 2010. In this context, it is necessary to ask the question: What tools should our society use in order to prevent and slow down this and help the people who have fallen into a drug addiction? In Sweden, smoking continues to decrease. Despite this, still close to one in eight women and one in ten daily smokers. Some 12 000 people die in Sweden every year from smoking and its consequences. Balancing people's fundamental right to decide over their own lives against the dangerous effects and effects of tobacco smoking on life and health is a delicate task. We need balanced proposals and a balance in the balances that is consistent with the ethical principles that take into account the cost of life and health for the individual and the overall cost of society. It is important to pursue and develop the ANDT strategy established by the Alliance Government in 2011. And it is important to develop an in-depth and renewed strategy where the overall objectives and visions will continue to be: a society free from drugs and doping, reduced medical and social damage caused by the use of alcohol and a continuous reduction in the use of tobacco. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have five reservations, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 1.
i-Y3AsqP7iSBsfdkDivrMbST	Mr President, I would like to We welcome the government's overall strategy on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco policy 2016 – 2020. We are behind all our motions, but for time winning, we are only in favour of reservations 19 and 20. The Swedish Democrats are behind a restrictive policy on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco based on science, with the aim of promoting good public health throughout the country. We believe that it is very important to work actively to tackle the avoidable health gaps and to tackle abuse and other problems. The strategy's focus on efforts to protect children and young people from their own and others' harmful use is something that we consider to be very good, as our children are the future of our country. A strong link between national, regional and local levels facilitates the work. Mr President, I would like to We would like to refer to the Abuse Investigation and its conclusions on transferring the responsibility for drug treatment to county councils rather than, as is currently the case, having a shared headship between municipalities and county councils. At present it is a fragmented and unclear treatment organisation, which according to experts does not appeal to the users. Among other things, they are poor at implementing new methods. If responsibility continues to be shared between different principals, there is a risk that people who need help will end up between the chairs. In addition, studies show that 90 percent of the population would prefer to get help for their addiction via health care, just as other types of health problems do. We therefore believe that a collective headship is preferable, where county councils take over the entire responsibility for drug treatment. Many women continue to use tobacco and alcohol while pregnant for various reasons. In some cases, information on the risk of injury has never been obtained. In other cases, the information is not taken seriously. Active dependence is difficult to break, not least because it also wants to avoid nicotine patches and other substitutes as these also affect the development of the foetus. Interventions in the form of support groups and therapy will then be an important alternative. At present, the range of services available varies from place to place in terms of both information provision and addiction treatment. The government should investigate how efforts to reduce the use of harmful substances by pregnant women can be intensified and developed. Furthermore, the government should develop a national plan to ensure equivalent efforts in the country for the well-being of foetuses. The review of the results of the previous strategy notes that mortality from drug use is still high in Sweden and that we stand out in comparison with other European countries. It is very worrying both for individuals and for society that drug mortality is increasing and at such a constant high level. The results of the efforts made are too weak and the efforts have not been sufficient. We Swedish democrats believe that the government should set up an investigation to analyse and make concrete proposals on how to address the negative trend in mortality caused by drug abuse. With our new inhabitants, new and bigger challenges arise, as they have a larger proportion of smokers among their own population. It will have an impact on public health in the future, and it is important to work preventively to reduce smoking and improve public health among them. Furthermore, we wish to express our view that it is important to safeguard the Swedish derogation from EU rules on snuff. While we want to work towards a public health problem that also exists around snus, we want to protect Swedish self-determination and the Swedish exception that applies to snus. Mr President, I would like to It is possible to predict which children and young people may be in harm's way, and then it is an advantage to provide preventive measures. Contacts with tobacco and alcohol can be limited if the family is supported and helped early. Cooperation between schools, preschools and social services is very important, with clear action plans and support to deal with substance abuse problems. If we can reach these families at an early stage, we have a lot to gain.
i-59fdffdb05466285-602	Mr President, I would like to We have to debate and finally decide on the government's ANDT strategy. This has become a very successful way in Sweden to work on these issues, precisely because there are so many different stakeholders involved, not least civil society. We have also seen that it has been successful with the fact that the majority of the country's municipalities are now in fact properly involved in this area. As far as tobacco is concerned, we in the Center Party fully support the objective set by the WHO, namely that Sweden should be a tobacco-free country in 2025. We are already at good levels, but there are further steps to be taken. A recent study has been published with a wide range of proposals that we look forward to being able to discuss and perhaps make decisions about here in Parliament in the coming years. As far as alcohol is concerned, we have also been successful. Alcohol consumption is now falling in Sweden for a long time. Not least, it is extremely gratifying that it is falling most sharply in the youngest age groups. This is a great success. I believe that the ANDT strategy and the way it has been chosen to work with it is an important part of its success. What is strange, however, and which surprises many people, is that this has happened at a time of very strong liberalisation, where it has become possible to cross the border and bring home large amounts of alcohol and alcohol advertising suddenly flows freely in the media. At the same time, we are seeing a fall in alcohol consumption. This makes it necessary, Mr President, to analyse carefully what is happening in society and what measures can actually be effective. As far as drugs are concerned, the picture is more twofold. We are good in Sweden when it comes to cannabis use, which is low. It is particularly in this area that we have measurable figures that allow us to compare ourselves with other countries. There is a full-scale experiment in some U.S. states with a whole generation of young people that legalises cannabis as a product. The results, not least from Colorado, are frightening. The result has been a significant increase in cannabis consumption. We see that the number of emergency visits by young people, because that is where the large increase is taking place, has increased. We see how small children come in with cannabis poisoning, which is due to the marketing of products that are directly targeted at the young generation. We know this is a dangerous drug. We know that it increases the risk of mental illness, and we know that it also leads to death. This, Mr President, is not a way for Sweden to go! Where we in Sweden are in trouble is when it comes to drug-related mortality. We have been able to see how it has increased for a number of years. That is totally unacceptable, and there is reason to change the course. The narcotics investigator pointed to an anomaly in Swedish society: For all other diseases, it is the health care principal who is responsible for the treatment. In the case of addiction, however, it is the municipalities that have the main responsibility. This, Mr President, is one of the reasons why we find it very difficult to get effective treatment methods in relation to drug dependence. One of the world's most famous and highly respected medical journals, The Lancet, recently pointed out in a large review article with nearly 500 references to what has to be done based on science and proven experience. On the part of the Center Party, we believe that it is not so much a matter of opinion; it is a question of finding out where science and proven experience lie and what measures should be taken. According to The Lancet, it's pretty simple. It is about increasing the availability of syringe exchange and clean needles. It is about increasing the possibility of receiving antiviral treatment. It is a question of increasing the availability of drug-assisted treatment for opioid use, and it is a question of ensuring that we have a greater supply of Naloxone, an antidote that is needed in a situation where there is a respiratory arrest due to drug use. This, Mr President, is quite simple and clear action, and here I assume that the government will move forward and ensure that we can implement the methods that we know are effective so that Sweden will no longer have to stand at the stake because we have an ever-increasing mortality rate due to drugs. We in the Center Party obviously support all the reservations contained in the report, but I choose that for the time they ask for the approval of reservation 17.
i-59fdffdb05466285-621	Mr President, I would like to Strategies come and go; addiction and stigmatization persist. Today we are debating the national ANDT strategy. It is really the backbone we should have in the work of addiction and dependence on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco. Current policies may not be on top. There have been major cuts at both municipal and county level, and they may not have always worked to offer relevant and evidence-based care. The addiction investigation came with a fantastic investigation, Better interventions in addiction and addiction. There were lots of good suggestions. A single proposal was made. We want more active policy in this area and wonder if the government can't dust off this investigation, which the previous government failed to manifest. There is much talk of prevention. The most important preventive action is the school. Going out of high school with grades and being able to move on somehow-- that's the thing. You shouldn't let the children of the working class leave school without grades. Then bad things happen. It is the school that is the preventive activity. You should also take care of all children and young people who grow up in homes where parents have problems with alcohol and drugs or have mental health problems. Preventive work, taking hold of these children, is incredibly important. 60 – 70 percent of the guys and girls looking for Maria Ungdom for manifest problems, i.e. for their own addiction, come from families who have either alcohol and drug problems or mental illness. So it is 60 - 70 percent. It is a very important target group to work with, and you don't really. This is about the social heritage. It is said that some 3,000 children receive support because of their parents'abuse. Then you should know that it is 400 000 children who grow up in families with risky consumption. It's all kinds of homes and all classes. 100,000 of these children live in an emergency. Then the advice and support for these children cannot be voluntary. Children of addicts get hurt. The Left has stated in previous debates and in previous motions, which are not here, that we want a study to be set up to review support for children of addicts. It's time for a workshop. This work is very much voluntary today. We have to have a room for that. It is time to start working properly on prevention. We also want Maria Ungdom in Stockholm to become a national centre for knowledge about young people who are dependent or who are at risk of becoming dependent. In the shadow of all the children growing up with parents with alcohol problems, I get a little wondering when I read the exercises specifically from the Moderates. It is a rather easy-going alcohol policy that they are proposing. They often highlight farm sales, and it's a lot about tasting and serving permits. There are also some attacks on Systembolaget, which is our absolute backbone in this work. Alcohol is not just any product. It should be more restrictive, less alcohol advertising and more control of the situation. There should also not be a bar on Ica, as on Folkungagatan in Stockholm. When shopping with the children, should you have a glass of wine and slide around with the shopping cart? It's not a Friday cuddle, I think. For all dependants, quick pucks are required – open doors to care and treatment. There is an obvious lack of availability. We want to investigate the guarantee of care and, by means of it, strengthen existing legislation and increase national equivalence in relation to drug treatment. I would say that the policy of abuse that has been shaped for decades up to now has greatly strengthened stigmatisation and strengthened exclusion. It is a lot about shame, guilt, punishment, refusal to clean syringes, refusal to care and treatment, lack of social care, homelessness. It doesn't exactly create trust in them as it is. There has been more focus on a society that is completely free from drugs. That's great; we can support that. But the tolerance of dead drug addicts has been frighteningly great for a very long time. These deaths can be observed since 1987. Over the last three years, the increase has been extremely dramatic. The National Board of Health and Welfare has a cause of death record that you can look at if you're interested. In 2013, 589 persons died from drug-related causes. In 2014, it had risen to 765 persons. So this is an increase of 30%. It is the second highest in the EU. It can't be explained away. I think that is rather shameful for a country that is still resourceful and has an expanded welfare. There is a need for proper investigations into each individual case, where one also sees what has been broken in healthcare and treatment in different ways. It is an extremely important tool to do so and then be able to work forward. As Anders W Jonsson from the Center Party said, Naloxon is being distributed in Region Skåne right now. It should be distributed throughout the country. It's not addictive, but it saves lives. And there's a fire in the knots. Still in 2016 I think that strategies for drug abuse policy are more about morals and myths at municipal and county councils level, but specifically at municipal level, than about experience and evidence. I can now see a turn, and I am very happy about it. All decisions taken in this type of issue should be made based on research. You shouldn't go on your gut, or you'll end up wrong. It feels like we've been working on the issue of sprinkling for decades, but I hope we don't have to talk about it any more soon. That question is not quite in place. There are many of us who have fought for exchange, and we have been called drug liberals. We've had to explain ourselves. What is obvious in the rest of the world has apparently felt strange in Sweden. Sweden has had sprinkling in Malmö since 1987. I think there are seven municipalities that have introduced sprinkling, and there are a few more municipalities in the pipeline. Abolish the municipal veto! The previous government didn't. This government has to rap on this issue. You can work a little faster. Sprinkler exchange programmes are a disease protection measure and a health activity. It is more about this than about drugs policy. There are very good regulations from the National Board of Health and Welfare, and it is not a flume. Sprinkler exchange is a small part of so much else. It's about catching up with addicts and giving them access to advice, information, motivating conversations, gynecology, social psychology skills and more. You can do that in these places. Those who stop abusing and those who do not stop abusing should do so without chronic diseases. Of course it is. This is a health policy measure supported by the authorities and supported by research. It's really just hitting the club in the table. There are very heavy research reports that clearly indicate that this is very good. I would therefore like to highlight reservation 17, which is common to the Left Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. On the subject of death, I would also like to highlight reservation 21. There is still a new recruitment for injecting drug use among young people. We have far too little knowledge of young people's addiction. Young people have a very poor entrance when it comes to getting help from society. The drug debut occurs in 14 to 15 years of age, and the injection deb occurs in 18 to 19 years of age. 50% of 21-year-olds who come to change syringes carry hepatitis C virus. You can think about that. Maybe you should lower the age limit for sprinkling. That would be nice. Dependence affects a lot of people. On the other hand, it is quite clear that we need a new policy focusing on the dependants and their relatives who are based on research and evidence. It should be a respectful policy of dependence, where we also have a mental zero tolerance for deaths in the target group of addicts and where we really care for relatives. We can do so much better. For time-winning, I only ask for reservations 17 and 21, but of course we also support our other reservations.
i-59fdffdb05466285-649	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that the Liberals obviously support all their reservations, but for time winning, I only support reservations 4 and 17. The basis of liberalism is that people should be allowed to choose how they want to live their lives as long as they do not harm anyone else. First and foremost, of course, we should prevent people from becoming addicted. That is why, among other things, we have an age limit for the purchase of alcohol and tobacco. Preventive action to prevent people from becoming addicted to drugs, alcohol and nicotine is extremely important. However, it is equally important that medicines and games are included in the ANDT strategy. It is the same mechanisms in the brain that lead to the different forms of dependence. Not to bring everyone will be wrong. In the past, Parliament has said no to the inclusion of medicines in the strategy because it is doctors who, through their prescriptions, contribute to people starting to over-use the funds. Of course, some have become drug addicts through prescriptions prescribed by a doctor. But there are also those who have come over the preparations on the black market and online. Gambling addiction is so common that it is defined as a public health problem. We must both prevent and help people out of their addiction to gambling. Unfortunately, this aid is incompletely extended. I find what the committee writes about gambling a bit boring. On the other hand, I am proud that it is my party colleague, Barbro Westerholm, who has greatly raised the abuse of gambling on the political agenda, although I would of course have preferred it not to have been necessary at all. Drug exchange and drug-assisted treatment for drug addicts must be made available throughout the country where the need exists. The government needs to take the initiative to do so. Both Anders W Jonsson from the Center and Karin Rågsjö from the Left have explained why. Today, society sees abuse and abuse differently. In some cases, abuse is seen as a disease and in other cases as something to be punished. This somewhat counterproductive attitude of society means that people with an addiction disorder cannot always begin recovery but can instead be stigmatised and condemned. Abuse must be seen as an addiction, whether it is drugs, alcohol or gambling that is abused. Treatment and prevention is what helps people back into a functioning life. Another issue that we in the Liberals have raised in our motion is that the government has changed the ANDT strategy that has been in place in 2011 – 2015 by deleting Objective 2 on protecting children from harmful effects caused by alcohol, drugs, doping or tobacco. We know that target management always measures what is stated in the targets. What is not there is not measured or done. The deletion of Objective 2 risks that children will be excluded from the important preventive work. The very aim is for the overall objectives to be long-term. It is therefore unfortunate that the government is poking into the target structure after four years. The normal lead times for a parliamentary decision to reach county councils and municipalities and civil society are quite long, so this has unfortunately just started. Since we do not want to change the targets, we also do not propose any additions on year-rich ones. However, it is important to note in some form that special knowledge and special efforts are needed for the elderly. The risk of alcohol consumption among year-rich women has increased significantly, due to something that is basically good – changed gender roles. An elderly perspective on alcohol prevention in healthcare and care can contribute to fewer people being affected and more people getting help and to reducing healthcare and care costs. Sweden is the second worst in the EU in this respect. More than twice as many people die in Sweden due to abuse when compared to how many die in traffic. The text states that it is not possible to draw a straight line between statistics on drug-related mortality and the extent of drug use. It also says that those who have never abused yet take their lives with drugs are included in the statistics. Yes, they do. It is terrible when a person takes his own life no matter how it happens. But I think this is hiding a little bit. In Sweden, 70 deaths per 1 million inhabitants are related. The cut in the EU is 17 deaths. Of course it's a failure. Recently it was decided at the UN that Member States need to have a more humane approach to abuse and focus more on harm minimisation, treatment and care, rather than just on zero tolerance and guilt in the form of penalties. Mr President, I would like to For many people with addiction, supportive interventions such as sprinkling, shelter, food in the stomach and clean clothing are the first step towards a life without abuse.
i-59fdffdb05466285-662	Mr President, I would like to The Parliament will now consider society's strategic focus on alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco for the years 2016 to 2020. The foundation for society's overall strategy in this area is the enormous costs and social problems generated by ANDT. There are an estimated half a million people in Sweden who abuse or are addicted. The majority of these, about 330 000 people, have alcohol problems. 77 000 people use drugs, and about 30 000 people are estimated to have a serious and serious drug addiction. The vast majority who abuse have a family. This means that about 20 percent of all children and adults in their daily lives are affected by someone close to them who has substance abuse problems. At least 60 000 children in Sweden have a parent with serious substance abuse problems. Eight out of ten violent crimes are alcohol-related. The human tragedies that result from this cannot be overestimated. Our common costs of abuse in the form of tax money are enormous. The social costs of abuse are estimated at SEK 150 billion per year, of which a large part, more than SEK 130 billion, refers to the somatic care in the county council and costs for the police, prison and the judiciary. About 17 billion are invested in substance abuse care by social services and in health care. In Sweden, 1 000 people die every month from smoking. In Sweden, 8 000 people fall ill every month in various diseases due to smoking. The fact that 8 000 people fall ill and that 1 000 people die every month because of smoking makes tobacco smoking the most serious public health problem we have in Sweden. The costs of society and the human suffering from alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco are enormous. It is against this background that the Riksdag will now decide on a continued focus and strategy to reduce the social and economic consequences of ANDT. Mr President, I would like to It is extremely gratifying and important that all the parties in Parliament support the objectives that we have with regard to ANDT issues. The common overall objective is a society free of drugs and doping. This means zero tolerance of drugs and baptism. It should not be in Swedish society. The common overall objective is to reduce medical and social harm caused by alcohol. This means preventing all harmful alcohol consumption by reducing the consumption of alcohol and harmful drinking habits. When it comes to tobacco smoking, it is extremely gratifying that all parties in the Riksdag are behind the goal that Sweden should be smoke-free in 2025. The meaning of this is that smoking in 2025 should be severely reduced and no longer a dominant public health problem. Mr President, I would like to The strategy is a continuation of the strategy that has been in place between 2011 and 2015. Both the government and the committee believe that it is good that the strategy essentially has the same objective and direction as the previous strategy. It provides continuity and long-termness of work. One of the goals is changing. In the past, it was expressed as a specific objective that children should be protected from harmful effects by ANDT. This objective will now permeate the entire strategy, and efforts to protect children from harmful effects of ANDT will be integrated into all relevant parts of the strategy work. The committee supports this approach and assumes that the government will follow up the efforts despite the fact that there is now no specific objective. Mr President, I would like to The government sets six objectives for further work. In order to achieve the objectives, a number of areas of intervention are identified. The action areas set out priorities for achieving the objectives. I shall briefly report on these areas of intervention. With regard to Objective 1, the areas of intervention concern the interaction between ANDT and crime prevention at all levels of society. It is a question of combating illegal trade and of restrictive and clearly regulated legal trade via digital media, of more stringent legislation to reduce illegal tobacco trade and of coordinated effective and uniform alcohol and tobacco supervision. As far as Objective 2 is concerned, the areas of intervention concern regulation and supervision in order to limit the marketing and exposure of alcohol and tobacco. It is about effective work against alcohol and tobacco trafficking, about the dissemination and application of a knowledge-based cannabis prevention work and about a health-promoting school based on pupils' different circumstances and needs. With regard to Objective 3, the areas of intervention concern the attention and prevention of ANDT-related ill-health among women and men, as well as girls and boys in health care, social services and other arenas. It is also a question of anti-doping work in sports. With regard to Objective 4, the areas of intervention relate to the interaction between health and social services and with other actors for coherent care based on the specific needs and conditions of women and men, girls and boys. It is also about efforts to reach women, men, girls and boys in a socially and health-disadvantaged situation due to addiction or addiction. With regard to Objective 5, the areas of intervention are concerned with early attention to risk use and dependency among prospective parents. It is about paying attention and offering appropriate support to girls and boys who are born with harm caused by ANDT or who grow up in families with substance abuse or other care failure, including violence linked to alcohol or drugs. It is about strategic and long-term work to combat drug-related mortality and about efforts to combat traffic-related injuries and deaths caused by alcohol and drug abuse. With regard to Objective 6, the areas of intervention are a public health-based approach to ANDT in the EU and internationally, to promote a public health-oriented approach to drugs in the EU and the UN, to adopt a broad public health policy approach to drugs before 2019, to develop drugs issues in global development cooperation, international work against doping based on sport, to promote the implementation of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco, to promote and contribute to an EU-wide alcohol strategy and to work not least within the framework of Nordic cooperation. Mr President, I would like to The Public Health Authority is given overall responsibility to support the implementation of the Strategy through national coordination, by promoting effective and knowledge-based work, by ensuring a comprehensive follow-up of activities, through management and further development of the necessary follow-up systems, and by taking initiatives and designing actions to achieve the objectives of the Strategy. Mr President, I would like to In the light of the comments made to Parliament, I would like to endorse the proposal and reject the reservations.
i-59fdffdb05466285-681	Mr President, I would like to Hans Hoff, there are a lot of fine words in the strategy that we support, however, but it won't be much of a hand on, I think. I have a few questions. One issue concerns children of addicts, who have been a project issue for too long. There's, like, no legal room for these kids. Of the children and young adults – 16 years old, we say they are – who end up in Maria Ungdom, 60 – 70 percent come from homes where you have substance abuse or mental illness. Couldn't you have done something up front? I'm thinking a lot about whether this government could do something legal, because it shouldn't be based on voluntary work, that possibly some passionate somewhere should do something with some youth. Because that's exactly what it looks like. For the 100,000 children who grow up in environments that are very alcohol-related and where you have acute problems, it is far too little. I wonder if there could somehow be some action on that issue, because it is necessary. I myself have worked with these issues in different ways, for example in the Alcohol Committee for a lot of years. There we really tried to do ours so that something would happen, and it's quite a long time ago that we were laid off by Maria Larsson. I have here a clipping of Börje Olsson, Professor of Alcohol and Drug Policy at Stockholm University, who says: We have a policy that is not in line with time. What do you think, Hans Hoff? When will there be an exchange? Is it happening? It would be interesting to hear from you. Then I wonder a little bit about the 765 deaths that occurred in 2014. That's quite a lot. Now the National Board of Health and Welfare is doing various investigations, but perhaps not deep enough. What do you see in the extension of the ANDT strategy? The ANDT strategy, however, is a lot of words and not so much here we go.
i-59fdffdb05466285-690	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps the latter is the answer to the question, because a strategy is more of a policy orientation for the coming years. It has been important that we remain essentially in the same direction as the one that applied during the previous strategy period in order to gain continuity and work long-term with these types of issues. These are not questions that will be resolved in one or two years. In these types of issues, it is about having a coherent policy and strategy and working with them in the long term. As Karin says, there are not many sharp proposals in the strategy itself. On the other hand, the letter, which forms the basis of the strategy, contains a number of descriptions of what is being done in the various areas. For example, it is clear that the issue of exchange of languages is being prepared within the Government Office and that the Government intends to return to the matter in one way or another. Many of the other issues that Karin raises are issues that are well-known and that you work with in different ways. We will return in the bill with proposals for the Riksdag that we will have to discuss later.
i-59fdffdb05466285-693	Mr President, I would like to Time's fast. Now there are two years left of the term of office, and then we will see what happens. We're hoping for a little rap. What the previous government failed to achieve, we hope you will be able to do. Statskontoret has evaluated the strategy, which we have had in the Social Affairs Committee. This has been done by talking to the people who have been involved in the work at the state level and also county boards. Statskontoret called around to some municipalities to hear how the application and implementation had been and whether they knew about the strategy, if it was in their mind world. It turned out that Statskontoret had to cancel the evaluation, because not many people knew about the strategy. It's a nice strategy, good words and good goals – great – but there has to be something more. Some things do county boards, such as alcohol prevention work. But there is a missing part of the link from strategy down to everyday work, and I miss that.
i-59fdffdb05466285-697	Mr President, I would like to In my speeches on these issues, I tend to emphasise our broad majority and consensus on these issues in Parliament. It makes me feel very confident. There are only two years left of the term of office. But I feel that these are issues that have such a breadth and weight in all parties in Parliament, so regardless of the government, I think they will be very important to our society in the future. As Karin Rågsjö has mentioned before, it is necessary to come back with proposals on various issues that lie for investigation. There will be a large number of things. For example, the government will come back on tobacco as well as on alcohol. During this term, we will have to take a position on a number of proposals which will improve the situation quite considerably in this area. I am absolutely convinced of that.
i-59fdffdb05466285-700	Mr President, I would like to I have a short question. Why change the target of specific children and that the child perspective should permeate the entire document, while at the same time changing people and women, men, girls and boys to make gender visible? What was the reasoning here?
i-59fdffdb05466285-702	Mr President, I would like to You see it as simply a higher priority. Then you can say: Yes, but you remove the objective that has existed before and that it should be integrated into all areas. It is therefore something that should permeate the whole strategy. In this way, it is said that the issue is being raised, but I understand from your motion that you think it is a priority. It is good, then, that the committee has said in broad agreement that it is important to change the structure of the objectives, which, after all, is done in this way. The idea is that it should be ambitious and that the child perspective in the strategy and this whole work should have a greater weight. Then it is important that we say from Parliament's side that we should follow this up a little extra in the future.
i-59fdffdb05466285-705	Mr President, I would like to Then I get even more perplexed about why you have to explicitly print out women, men, girls and boys, but not just a child. If the idea is that children are being promoted to permeate the entire document, does that mean that women, men, boys and girls are being demoted? I think the discussion is limping. My point is that what is not mentioned goes away, is not measured and is not done. I was also clear in my speech that it is important to also mention children in order for us to be able to measure this. So I wonder about the reasoning about women, men, boys and girls. Mr Hoff also mentioned this explicitly several times in his speech when he read out the objectives.
i-59fdffdb05466285-708	Mr President, I would like to Let me emphasise that it has in no way been an ambition of the government to prioritise the children's and young people's perspective for this period of strategy. Rather, it has been the opposite. It is so important for the government that the work focuses on children and young people that it has been integrated into the whole strategy. You could say it's superior. However, since there is a concern that this will be prioritised away or down, it is important that when it makes decisions next week, the Riksdag makes it clear to the government that the government will return with a follow-up of how to work on these issues.
i-59fdffdb05466285-710	Mr President, I would like to The overall goal of ANDT policy is to promote a society without drugs and doping, as well as a society in which medical and social harm caused by alcohol is reduced. The aim is also to reduce tobacco consumption. ANDT policy is an important part of well-being as it aims to provide all citizens with the best possible conditions for physical and mental health. The use of alcohol, drugs, doping drugs and tobacco are well documented health traps. Of course, avoiding them does not guarantee a healthy and healthy life, but it is a very good contribution. One formulation of the report that I would like to highlight in particular is that in which the government clearly insists that the efforts made to achieve the objectives should be based on knowledge. It is written, to clarify the matter, that the fact that the efforts are to be based on knowledge means that the policy must not be static. The government writes that politics must be constantly reviewed and renewed on the basis of the knowledge available at a given time. I see that wording as a great success because throughout my adult life I have fought against all those anti-knowledge individuals who believe that knowledge is something constant. The fact that the government and the committee state that knowledge is constantly evolving is, for me personally, the most important thing in the whole strategy. The committee and the government argue for a coherent ANDT strategy, although at the same time pointing to the differences between legal and illegal. Drugs and doping are about the use of illegal drugs, while tobacco and alcohol are legal drugs. Therefore, the objectives are also different. We are talking about a society free of drugs and doping, but about a reduction in the use of tobacco and alcohol. When you say that the goal is a tobacco-free Sweden in 2025, you do not mean completely tobacco-free, but you usually own that the goal is that less than 5 percent of the population should use tobacco products. The idea is that tobacco use should no longer be an integral part of everyday life or society. When you talk about a Sweden free from drugs and doping, on the other hand, the goal is to really stop all drugs and doping. The methods of achieving the objectives are obviously affected by this. However, in the case of drugs, there are both medical and research-related exceptions which make certain uses unlikely to be avoided. The government sees no strong motive for making any major changes to the ANDT strategy, such as extending it to gambling addiction and drug dependence, and therefore rejects such proposals. The government also points out that it is already behind the case of a tobacco-free Sweden until 2025, which is why claims for it are rejected. The report also states that the Government considers that the goal of Sweden's international work in the field of ANDT should clearly reflect that the public health perspective should be indicative. There is much to do here. Sweden, in collaboration with other so-called well-developed and relatively rich countries with a high purchasing power of citizens, should coordinate and place demands on those companies that, as consumers become increasingly health conscious in our rich countries, choose to increase the spread of advertising in poor countries for unhealthy habits. When we in the rich countries win the public health fight against health companies, it goes out on the poor in the world. Companies are trying to compensate for the loss in our markets by creating new consumers in the poor countries. According to the World Health Organisation, tobacco advertising is more widespread the poorer the countries are. Already, nearly 80 percent of the world's smokers live in the world's poor countries. The World Bank estimates that the annual deaths from smoking are rapidly increasing in these countries and will be more than 7 million tobacco-related deaths per year in 14 years' time. Although the WHO encourages poor countries to impose restrictions on packaging, advertising and so on that are beginning to become normal in rich countries, the poor countries do not dare to run legal proceedings against tobacco companies as rich countries do. For example, England recently won one. Often these countries also have too weak legislation to meet public health requirements. There is a lot to do here – also considering that many Swedes vacation in vulnerable countries and that many are increasingly migrating from the weak countries to the rich countries of the world. It can be said that tobacco use, like environmental issues, is a cross-border problem. There are many things in the report that I would like to comment on. But I guess at this time of night, no one will be able to listen to me for the extra half an hour or 45 minutes that I would need for it. That is why I have chosen a few things to talk about. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I would first like to make it clear that I am in favour of the committee's proposal and of rejecting all motions for resolutions. Having said that, I will still talk about one of the exercises. This is the one about Systembolaget's code of conduct. It is not that I object to the committee rejecting the motion. On the contrary, I have quite a lot of sympathy for doing so, but I would still like to talk about the motion in the hope that some Members and perhaps some others who listen will sow some seeds. Systembolaget buys large quantities of wine originating in Chile, Argentina and South Africa. Systembolaget cannot buy directly from the producers, but according to the legislation Systembolaget has to trade from wholesalers, intermediaries and importers in a long chain. Systembolaget has developed an excellent code of conduct that they try to implement throughout the chain all the way down to the vineyards where the grapes to the wine we consume in Sweden are produced. The Code of Conduct requires wine workers to have reasonable wages and a fair number of rights that we consider to be absolutely obvious labour law conditions in our country. To succeed in implementing its code of conduct, Systembolaget hires companies that visit and review the vineyards. Systembolaget staff also go to these countries to some extent and visit the vineyards to get their own picture. We are a few Members who for several years have had a dialogue with Systembolaget on how to succeed in implementing the Code of Conduct. Since the picture we got through trade union channels in these countries differed quite a lot from the one that Systembolaget's reviewers described in their reports, we decided a few years ago to go on study visits to vineyards in these countries ourselves. We met politicians, representatives of the trade unions that exist, people who have tried to build trade unions but who have been fired and employed in various vineyards. Of course, we also met representatives of the owners and in some cases the owners themselves. I'm not going to take your time to tell you all the things I could tell you from these study visits, but I'm going to focus on one thing. When we learn that the salary that two full-time parents receive for 12 hours of work per day is not enough to buy enough food for themselves and their two children so that they can get the minimum nutrition that is considered necessary, I cannot help but ask: How do you survive? The answer is quick and clear: we do not survive; we die young. That is the reality. Systembolaget has good intentions, but the legislation with all the forced intermediaries does not make it easy. We're only allowed to visit the main estates that bear the trade name. All the local subcontractors of grapes are unable to get their names or find out where they were. We also learn that the minimum wages applied to the "good" farms are far below a so-called living wage. After such trips, only Fairtrade products can be used without feeling uneasy about contributing to extreme poverty and, in many cases, child labour. Mr President, I would like to As I said, I support the committee's proposal and reject all motions.
