i-b484195b5b3fcca0-0	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler has asked me in what way I am prepared to work for a system in which Swedish farmers do not suffer unreasonable additional costs through special requirements in Swedish legislation or decisions by Swedish authorities and in what way I am prepared to ensure that Swedish farmers do not, by Swedish authorities making different interpretations of EU rules than the corresponding authorities in our neighbouring countries, suffer extensive competitive disadvantages. EU cooperation presents opportunities and challenges for Swedish farmers. Swedish companies have access to a larger market while at the same time being exposed to increased competition. As far as regulations are concerned, there is gradual harmonisation within the EU. In those areas where the EU is able to decide on minimum legislation, the government safeguards Member States' right to decide on higher national requirements where deemed justified, such as labour law, health and safety at work and environmental and animal welfare. At the same time, it is important for the government that any special requirements are carefully justified. Regulatory frameworks shall be smartly designed to achieve the objective of the regulatory framework at the lowest possible cost. As regards KemI's examination of cases, the purpose of the investigation is to ensure a high level of protection of animal and human health and the environment, as well as to improve the functioning of the internal market while improving agricultural production. The test is based on the precautionary principle. By 14 December 2014, the Commission had to present a report on, inter alia, the effects of Regulation 1107/ 2009 on the diversification and competitiveness of agriculture, human health and the environment. The review is late. In the light of the review, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, together with the Ministry of Industry, organised a discussion meeting for Swedish actors in autumn 2015. Effects on competitiveness will be an important part of the review, which will provide an opportunity to highlight the kind of issues raised by Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler in his question. The Government believes that work on simplification of national rules should continue, and during the period 2015 – 2018 work will focus on the areas of Better Service and More Effective Rules and be followed up towards four goals. The objectives of the Better Service area are to make it easier to provide data, improve service and shorten processing times. For the area More effective rules, the objectives are to promote the growth of companies and to reduce the costs of regulations. In the face of all regulations, which also includes the regulations of the authorities, an impact assessment must be carried out that includes assessing the costs for companies and examining different alternatives to regulatory design. The Government intends to step up efforts to improve the quality of impact assessments through increased support and through training to regulators. A good impact assessment leads, in the long run, to more effective rules and, in turn, to increased competitiveness and growth. The work on simplifying the regulatory framework shows that it is partly a myth that we need to lower the level of the objectives of what we want to regulate. In fact, there is considerable scope for simplification for businesses while maintaining high targets. It's about making the rules smarter to achieve the desired goals. It is also important to dare to modernise regulations based on how companies develop based on new knowledge and technology.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-7	Mr President, I would like to Today, many farmers – this is particularly true of dairy farmers – are forced to close down activities that have been driven for a long time because of the tough economic situation that prevails. At the same time, we see how food production is moved or closed down – the latest example is Findus – due to the fact that the opportunities to operate here are deemed to be worse than elsewhere, despite our basically fairly good natural conditions. Of course, this should not be the case. But for a long time politics has been a problem rather than a part of the solution. It is to quite a large extent political decisions that have been allowed to create or exacerbate these problems through Swedish special rules, high taxes and a large administrative burden. All in all, this entails significant additional costs for Swedish farmers and for food businesses. It is now time to reverse that trend. We must work to ensure that the conditions are more equal to the rest of Europe. There is a need for regulatory simplification, a reduction in red tape, improved coordination between different authorities and a reduction in administrative costs. Part of this is long-term proposals. Some such examples are also mentioned by the Minister for Rural Development in his reply, and I would like to say that I think that is a good thing. But there is much more to be done. The Alliance government set up a competitiveness inquiry which submitted its final report over a year ago. There is a whole palette of measures that can be implemented. What's the government waiting for? In order to go to a very concrete, topical and, in fact, an acute problem, I intended to address the Chemicals Inspectorate, which makes quite different interpretations of the EU acquis from what is being done in other countries. The Authority does not take into account the impact of the decisions. You just don't look at the whole thing. Stup tube thinking is rarely good, but in this case I would say that the effects are almost devastating. The Agency therefore makes its decisions without regard to the impact on cultivation in this case or the environmental impact of imports from other countries – which do not have our environmental requirements – increasing as a result of the Authority's decision. One might ask what environmental benefit comes from, for example, the fact that Swedish onion cultivation is eliminated because the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate does not allow the use of a plant protection product and instead we import onions from countries that use five times as much of the same means as we have done in Swedish cultivation. How would this be good for the environment? Mr President, I would like to It's serious now. The government cannot continue to watch passively when farms are shut down and food businesses move to other countries. We must do what we can here in Sweden to ensure our competitive conditions. The government has ultimate responsibility for how the authorities deal with such issues. We therefore demand that the government act immediately to improve the competitive position of Swedish agriculture. What are the government and the Minister for Rural Development prepared to do to improve the competitive situation of Swedish agriculture in the short term, so that more activities are not eliminated? What specifically is the Minister for Rural Development prepared to do with regard to the Chemicals Inspectorate and the fact that their decision in cases after cases is so significantly different from the assessment made in the other EU countries?
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-16	Mr President, I would like to Let me be personal first, Minister of Rural Affairs. The Holy Swedish Model talks about the social democrats in general, and it talks about Swedish agriculture. Sweden must have the world's strictest laws for the environment and animal welfare. It gives the world's most expensive food. It will be bought by consumers in Sweden. But do they? Is the Swedish model's agriculture a success, Minister, or rather a fiasco? Swedish food production has decreased by 25 per cent in 25 years. Sweden is today Europe's most import-dependent country. 25 years ago, we imported 20 percent of our food. Today we import 55% and are heading towards 60%. Succé or fiasco, rural minister? In 25 years, Denmark has increased its pig production from 15 million pigs per year to 25 million. Sweden has reduced its production of robbery 4 million to 2 1⁄2 million. We beat ourselves to the chest – politicians, the media, the Minister for Rural Development and I – with the world's strictest rules for our agriculture, while doubling our imports of food from countries where the animals have been worse and where the environment is worse. I call that double standards and hypocrisy, Minister. On top of that, we have another hypocrisy that is probably so serious. Most of Sweden's municipalities have long bought much imported food produced in a worse environment and with worse animal welfare rules than imposed on farmers in their own municipality and throughout Sweden. It is of course double standards and hypocrisy of the worst kind. The last decade has started to deafen one's bad conscience to buy organic food from Sweden and the world. That's 25-60 percent more expensive in purchases. Suddenly, the world's best and most environmentally friendly food from ordinary Swedish agriculture is not worth anything in the eyes of the Nature Conservation Association, the Environmental Party and many municipalities. Many Swedish municipalities today even refuse to buy a single litre of milk from the environmentally friendly Swedish agriculture that accounts for 80–85 per cent of milk production in Sweden. We send out signals, Minister, to consumers and schoolchildren about how to buy food? While the Minister for Rural Development does not want to adapt any single Swedish environmental and animal welfare rule in the EU direction, so that the industry can instead certify and obtain added value, he speaks, eagerly driven by the Green Party, that the world's best environmental agriculture should be side-stepped through higher government targets to primarily Swedish organic farming – today 6–7 per cent of agriculture – to expand. Swedish ecofood is an honorable environmental alternative, but it is also really the whole of Swedish agriculture with its strict rules. About the cultivation of Swedish spring oil plants, which Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler mentioned, Swedish onions, Swedish peas, Swedish pigs and so on because of too strict Swedish rules replaced by imports from countries with poorer rules, how has this benefited animal welfare, the environment and Swedish agriculture? Let me make one more point. The main objective of the food strategy must be to achieve growth throughout Swedish agriculture. The target for the share of eco-food should be set by the market and not by the state. Authorities must not run wild and move Swedish agriculture out of Sweden. The government must have a responsibility to intervene then. Decisions on Swedish environmental rules must be taken in an EU concept. We cannot be too far ahead, Minister.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-24	Mr President, I would like to It is surprising that Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler also takes up Findus and tries to argue that the closure of Findus has to do with that it is so bad in Sweden. Findus was a very well-run and profitable company that venture capitalists bought last November and closed down. Above all, the Moderates are trying to create dark images. Whatever industry we are discussing in this House, they are trying to give a picture of Sweden. Maybe it's inspired by something American, to smudge. I would therefore like to give a picture of the Swedish economy. We have growth in Sweden in general of around 4 per cent. It's the highest in the Nordic countries. It is also higher than growth in the United States, Germany and the United Kingdom, among others. We are six in terms of world growth. In 2015, we saw how Swedish exports grew by 5 per cent. Since this government took office, 80 000 more jobs have been created and unemployment has been pushed below 7%. The Ministry of Industry conducts a very active business policy. We reboot government venture capital so that it can benefit the whole country in the early stages. We have also presented a new export strategy and a new industrialisation strategy. We see that the industry is increasing its exports. So it is not basically gone, as someone said a few years ago. We are now putting a food strategy in place, and we are working to get a good business climate and to support growth and entrepreneurship. This is crucial for the whole of Sweden to live. We have raised these issues from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of Industry, where all other business issues exist. Nevertheless, I think it is positive that the Moderates are suddenly involved in agricultural policy. For eight years they just let it go, and it got worse and worse. What has this government done? We began to restore what the previous government deteriorated for agriculture. Among other things, the previous government deteriorated more and more in terms of diesel prices and reductions. It was extremely stressful for Swedish agriculture. This is also addressed in the Competitiveness Investigation. In this respect, this government spends 300 million annually for three years — a total of 900 million. We have increased Norrland support, which has not been maximum since the late 1990s. We have gone in with special money for cloven-hoof care for the milk sector to make it easier for them to deal with their problems. We have fully funded the EU's national envelopes for the dairy farmers – 100% funding. There are neighbouring countries that have not financed a crown. We have also put the work on the food strategy in place. In November 2011, I wrote for the first time in Parliament a motion on a food strategy. Then there were also committee movements from the Social Democrats for several years. But every year these movements were turned off. Now I welcome the fact that you have suddenly realised that it is important that we have a national food strategy also in Sweden that most other European countries have. Welcome to the gang!
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-35	Mr President, I would like to The Minister is very eager here in his beautification of the way things are. At the same time, he accuses me of blacking things out. I think it is important to see the reality as it is, and it is not really as rosy as the Minister for Rural Development wants to show. Swedish agriculture depends on a functioning food industry to work. But the reverse is also true, i.e. that the Swedish food industry is completely dependent on us having a Swedish agriculture that works and is competitive. It's connected, and the whole chain is important. That is precisely why it becomes so serious when, time after time, a Swedish authority makes a completely different interpretation from what is being done in other EU countries. Thus, by decision of this authority, significant parts of Swedish agriculture are at risk of being knocked out. Doesn't the Minister for Rural Affairs see this? Let me give three concrete current examples where, in this case, the Chemicals Inspectorate makes a different interpretation. The first example concerns the plant protection product Stomp, which is used against weeds in crops of, among other things, onions. This funding is authorised in all EU countries except Sweden. It has been prohibited here since 2011. Swedish growers have been granted a derogation one year at a time and have been able to come forward. But this year the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate will not grant an exemption. As a result, the onion will be replaced by imported onions from other countries, where this means is permitted and where it is used to a much greater extent. The second example concerns the plant protection product Modesto. An exemption had been applied for to use this for four months in Central Sweden for the cultivation of spring oilseed rape and spring herbs. But the Chemicals Inspectorate has now said no. On the other hand, countries such as Estonia, Finland, Denmark and the United Kingdom have granted exemptions. This means that Swedish growers of rapeseed and turnip rape are eliminated, while we are increasing imports of rapeseed and turnip rape from other countries, where this means is allowed. The third example concerns the plant protection product Pirimor. It has been used for a long time against leaf lice in the cultivation of peas, among other things. Then we are back to the Findus question, which the Minister for Rural Development was very eager to wave away. Pirimor is forbidden to use in Sweden since 2013. But this is permitted in the rest of the EU, including the UK and Germany. Does the Minister of Agriculture not see the pattern here and that this impairs our competitive conditions? Swedish growers are knocked out, while growers in other countries get an advantage. Mr President, I would like to I want to make it clear that no one wants to use such plant protection products unnecessarily. We all strive for a nontoxic environment. However, it may not be reasonable for Swedish growers to be knocked out as a result of Swedish authorities making completely different interpretations from what is being done in the rest of the EU. The rules of a single market must, of course, be equivalent. I would like to make five clear demands here and now to the government to deal with the emergency situation in which the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate has put Swedish agriculture in.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-45	Mr President, I would like to I thought we should really be able to agree, the rural minister n, Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler and I. Swedish authorities cannot make decisions in splendid isolation without putting their decisions into an international context. It is clear that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate believes that they are doing the right thing and other EU countries are wrong, and if the effect is that Swedish agriculture is closed down, you have to take it. If this results in Swedish cultivation of spring oil plants being knocked out and replaced by imports, Swedish onion cultivation is knocked out and Swedish pea growing moves to Germany – is that acceptable? No, certainly not, and I am convinced that the Minister for Rural Development does not think so either. Then the question is: How do we get a different system of things, so that Swedish authorities serve Swedish interests and not just have a one-sided professional perspective that doesn't put things into a holistic perspective? I agree with Jonas Gjörtler's three examples, and I think there were five good proposals to the Minister for Agriculture on how to act. I can stand behind them. Government independence is anchored in the Holy Swedish model, unlike in most other countries' models. It must not be exaggerated and withdrawn absurdly. If there are such effects, I believe that the Minister for Rural Development must act – take the authority in the ear, talk with it and get another system of things.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-48	Mr President, I would like to I promise that this government will pursue a very active industrial policy and continue to do so. There, changes in the regulatory framework are an important part, and this needs to be done widely. We will continue to have legislation in Sweden that ensures things in a better way than perhaps in our competitor countries in Europe. This applies, for example, to better labour law, better working environment and to safeguarding the rules that exist – not only the rules that exist in Sweden but also those that exist in the EU and that are not followed. I understand that it is very embarrassing for the Moderates to see that Sweden is doing so well. We've got +4 percent on bnp. I understand that it is disturbing, as is the fact that exports are increasing enormously and unemployment is decreasing. Youth unemployment, in particular, is falling dramatically. The black picture was painted that changing the employers' contribution for young people would be a disaster. It was the black picture then. Now the black picture is something else; now you blacken down by saying that Findu's closure depends on Swedish regulations. I suppose it's an audacity that goes very far, Jonas. As far as the Chemicals Inspectorate is concerned, I cannot go into individual cases. You know that. On the other hand, I can say in general that we need to have much better access to plant protection products in Sweden. I am concerned about the length of the proceedings, and we are conducting an ongoing dialogue with the authorities on these issues from the government. Then let me also remind you that this is something that has been going on for very many years. What did the previous government do? JK has also pointed this out. It is very clear also in the Competitiveness Investigation, which writes about this problem. This government has allocated 6 million to be able to work and have access to plant protection products for smaller crops and for smaller uses, which we have in many cases in Sweden and where there are therefore no plant protection products. There is more to be done, and we are following the question. We have raised the issue with the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate twice from the government. But I cannot go into the individual cases; I hope you still have respect for that. Simplification is an important element. There the Swedish Board of Agriculture, together with the LRF and some other authorities, did a very good job. This is not a job that is in any way completed, but it will continue to have a lot of focus from this government. It is about better service and that it will be easier and take less time to try different things. Here we have also involved all county boards in the work, and it is 19 central authorities that have a responsibility for this. There must be simple tools for starting and running businesses, and we shall have an annual follow-up in these areas. More effective rules are the second part of this. The Swedish Agency for Growth has a follow-up responsibility in these parts.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-53	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Rural Development continues to accuse me of black painting. I would just like to remind the Minister for Rural Development that we were not the ones who were trying to spread the picture that something is breaking up in Sweden. It was another party that devoted itself to that kind of description. I agree that many things are going well in Sweden right now. We have had alliance budgets for many years, and it is only a few months since we stopped the pleasant habit. This means that in many ways things are actually going quite well for Sweden. However, I would like to emphasise that there are also significant downside risks, not only for the Swedish economy as a whole, but also specifically for Swedish agriculture. I am rather surprised that the Minister for Rural Development cannot see it. The Minister for Rural Development asks what the previous government did. Yeah, it did a lot, I'd say. The competitiveness investigation is an example of a grip taken by the previous government to deal with this in the long term. But some other things were also done. For example, in the instruction to the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, which we have touched on here, there is a mission to collaborate with others. My picture is that this does not really work, and I wonder what the government is doing to follow it up. One of my proposals is to clarify this and sharpen the wording further; I think it might be necessary. I get a little worried when I hear the Minister for Rural Affairs talk about what is needed in Sweden being more of legislation on labour law, work environment and other things. I find it difficult to see how this would improve the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture and reduce costs. It's going to be the other way around. I am fully aware that the Minister for Rural Development cannot go into individual cases. The examples I mentioned were just examples, but my demands and suggestions for what the government should do are not to go into individual cases. These are general rules for, instructions to and requirements to the authority. The government can do that. Is the Minister for Rural Development prepared to push the issues in that direction?
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-58	Mr President, I would like to I am very aware that Swedish agriculture is in a strained position, particularly in the milk sector. This is the case in all 28 EU countries, regardless of the regulatory framework. This is true in many countries apart from the EU, regardless of the regulatory framework or taxation. It's very tough– it's a global overproduction. It is clear that we are going to work towards a competitive agriculture and food production. Swedish food production must increase, and it also creates more jobs in this country. We will continue to work on this. An important and crucial part of this is that we have developed a national food strategy, which will of course be complemented by an action plan and concrete measures to achieve increased production and more jobs in Swedish rural areas, which is at stake, both in primary production and in the food industry. In my previous speech, I outlined the urgent measures we have taken to help in the difficult crisis. With the diesel tax reduction, the alliance government set it up for farmers. That's where we started to improve. We went in with cloven-hoofing money and with kopeng, and we have financed the national funds 100%. It was urgent measures to save Swedish milk production that are important. We're gonna keep working on this. We will also ensure that there will be good rules for the long term, because I and this government believe in Swedish agriculture and rural Sweden – even the Minister for Finance does. Another Minister of Finance did not believe in Swedish agricultural production. Now the whole government believes it.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-63	Mr President, I would like to Lars Tysklind has asked the Minister for Climate and Environment how she intends to act at EU level to prevent banned pesticides from being used within the EU and whether she will act nationally to improve the exchange of information between the relevant authorities. Lars Tysklind has also asked how the Minister will act so that Swedish consumers do not have to buy fruit and vegetables containing dangerous pesticides. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The background to Lars Tysklind's questions is information in the media that the Swedish Food Safety Agency, in its random inspections of fruit and vegetables from other EU countries, found plant protection products that are not authorised for use in the EU. The issue of food safety is important for both the government and the authorities. In order to protect consumers, we have set together at European level maximum levels for which residues of plant protection products may be present in food. The limit values are set as low as possible and after careful scientific evaluations. In addition, safety margins are used to further increase consumer safety. Where official food control finds levels exceeding the maximum level, the products shall not be sold. The authorities of the country of production are also notified. The company that has sold the lots must then show off faultless deliveries on three occasions in order to sell its products again. Detecting levels that can cause acute health risks to consumers requires the Swedish Food Administration to withdraw the goods from the market. In addition, an alert message is sent to other EU countries. In such exceedances, Sweden acts actively in Brussels. EU Member States are all obliged to ensure that only authorised plant protection products are used in their own production. They shall also prosecute illegal use. In Sweden, the supervisory responsibility for these issues lies with the municipalities and county boards. Thus, systems to prevent food containing measurable levels of prohibited plant protection products in the EU are in place. The levels of European products on which the current data in the media are based are very low, in many cases so low that they are at the limit of what can be determined in terms of quantity. According to the Swedish Food Safety Agency, the levels do not pose a health risk to consumers. When the news was presented, it was produced as the residues of plant protection products in food as a result of unauthorised use in the EU. Closer examination has shown that most of the findings have other causes. These include residues of plant protection products that were authorised for use when the samples were taken but are no longer authorised, samples from fruit and vegetables produced outside the EU, or environmental pollution. If plant protection products are used illegally in the EU, that is unacceptable. At the same time, it is important that data presented are accurate and not unnecessarily cause concern. The relevant authorities, the Swedish Food Authority and the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate, have been cooperating for a long time on issues relating to authorisations of plant protection products and maximum residue levels for plant protection products. The Government does not consider that there is reason to review the arrangements for the cooperation of the authorities in protecting consumers from the risks of plant protection products.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-72	Mr President, I would like to There is, in fact, a link with the previous issue, because although it is now a question of pesticides, it is also a question of competitiveness. Thank you for your answer. I have no comment to make on the fact that it is the Minister for Rural Development who answers instead of the Minister for Climate and the Environment, but of course I accept that. Unfortunately, however, I do not think that the answer is real clarification on the basis of my question. Of course, I agree with what the Minister says in his reply, that the limit values should be set low so that there is a minimal risk to our health, and that it is important that infringements of the limit values have consequences. In his reply, the Minister for Rural Development also points out that the levels of pesticides found in European productions, which are actually banned in the EU, are very low and do not pose any probable health risks. Sure, I'm sure it can be. But that is not really what the question is about. I agree, of course, that there should not be unnecessary social concern about this. But there should not be any residue of these pesticides there at all. Overshooting limit values is one thing and residues of banned substances are another thing. If banned substances are used in Europe, they can ultimately be linked to competitiveness. There is a clear reason why they are banned in the EU. This is not least a question of endocrine disruptors. Research shows that it is different from case to case how dangerous the levels are. It depends on who and at what stage of life you get them and so on. I think we could agree that our control system should be optimised and that there should be procedures between our authorities so that all knowledge is fully exploited. If the Finnish Food Safety Agency finds residues of substances in fruit and vegetables that are banned in the EU, and these products are actually grown in the EU, this should automatically be alerted and not just focus on the limit value itself. As it is prohibited, alarms should be alarmed entirely regardless of whether the levels are above or below the limit value. My question remains to the Minister whether he thinks that we are making the best use of our resources and know-how to prevent residues of plant protection products in fruit and vegetables in Europe that should not be there.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-79	Mr President, I would like to Although we have regulations and control systems in place to ensure people's health and food safety, it is obviously naive to believe that there would never be any infringements. That's why we have these control functions. In the case that has now been highlighted in the media, it turned out that there were other probable reasons why the Swedish Food Safety Agency found plant protection products that are not authorised in the EU. I can assure Lars Tysklind that Sweden is clearly acting on several levels, and we have good control and good practices to follow up on this. I have full confidence in how the agency works with these controls to be able to alert not only Swedish consumers but other countries when there are cases that require it.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-82	Mr President, I would like to In individual cases, explanations can certainly be found so that they can be put aside. The confidence in the authorities was too great, I don't think I have that many synthesizers on. But as the Minister said, it is naive to believe that there are no violations. That is really what my question is about. In Ekot's radio interview, it was clear that the focus of the Swedish Food Administration is on limit values. That is a good thing, but it would be even better if residues of substances that should not be in these foods were routinely recorded at all. This knowledge could then be passed on in a good way, not least to the countries concerned. In the same interview, the Swedish Food Safety Authority states that controls are a very good way to detect the misuse of pesticides and take advantage of that knowledge. The Agency has access to and uses the EU database containing all these substances. But obviously the Finnish Food Administration does not do that in its routine checks. It is positive that there is generally much less pesticide residues in Swedish-produced food compared to the EU average. It is yet another Swedish added value that we should of course take advantage of in marketing. I am not quite satisfied with the Minister's reply. I call on the Minister to act to optimise the exchange of information between the relevant authorities so that all knowledge is exploited. Information exchange applies both at national and EU level. Equal competition was raised in the previous debate, and there should be zero tolerance of pesticides that should not be used in the EU at all. The use of these is, of course, largely due to its advantages in production.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-90	Mr President, I would like to The government, together with the relevant authorities, will continue to act to constantly improve and develop food safety and to ensure that we have a responsible use of chemicals. The presence of measurable levels of plant protection products in food is not equal to the risk to humans and the environment. Technology developments have made it possible to detect very low levels of plant protection products that do not have that effect. We should not see it as a threat but as an asset that we have a very good technology to detect also very low levels. Limit values are also changing over time through the technology available to detect current chemicals. The minimum level is continuously lowered in connection with the development of the technology. I have great confidence in the authority dealing with these issues. It is done in a very responsible and long-term way. It also has the ambition to constantly improve this in cooperation with other authorities.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-94	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the discussion. I think we agree fundamentally that we should have controls that work and that there should be no residue of pesticides in fruit and vegetables that should not be there. The fact that I raised the issue does not depend so much on the limit values. As the Minister says, it is important that we follow research so that limit values are adjusted and lowered if danger increases. This applies not least to what I raised earlier about endocrine disruptors. Research shows that it is difficult to determine which level is dangerous or harmless to individuals. It's one of the main directions. I have great confidence that the Finnish Food Authority will find the products where the limit values are exceeded, and we shall, as the Minister said, see that not as a threat but as an asset. Something I have now repeated a few times and that the Minister touched on in his reply but did not make it clear whether or not he intends to act on the fact that he does not make the best use of the knowledge available and cooperate in an optimal way. But I hope that the signal is that the work continues so that this can be developed in a good way.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-98	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we have plant protection products in order to have viable agriculture. But we must be able to produce high-quality food without endangering human health or the environment. I think Lars Tysklind and I agree that food safety must be the focus. I can guarantee that the Swedish Food Safety Agency, which is responsible for these issues, develops its technology, follows the research and collaborates with others who work in this area to constantly improve themselves. I thank Lars Tysklind for a good and important debate.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-101	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked me: In the spring of 2016, the Government will present a proposal for a food strategy to the Riksdag. The Food Strategy aims to increase the competitiveness of the entire food chain and thereby contribute to strengthening rural growth. In reply to Staffan Danielsson's four questions, I would like to say the following: 1. The final report of the competitiveness investigation is one of the bases I use in the preparation of the food strategy. However, what action proposals should be included in the food strategy is too early to say. However, the Government has already acted to strengthen the conditions of competition for Swedish companies on the basis of the K Non-Competitiveness Investigation. The study states that the tax on diesel is the most burdensome means of production tax for the agricultural sector in Sweden. To strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry, the government therefore increased the diesel tax reduction from SEK 0.90 per litre to SEK 1.70 per litre on 1 January 2016. This increase means that the Government invests approximately SEK 300 million per year in agriculture and forestry. 2. EU cooperation presents opportunities and challenges for Swedish farmers. Swedish companies have access to a larger market while at the same time being exposed to increased competition. In those areas where the EU is able to decide on minimum legislation, the government safeguards Member States' right to decide on higher national requirements where deemed justified, such as labour law, health and safety at work, environmental and animal welfare. At the same time, it is important for the government that any special requirements are carefully justified. Regulatory frameworks shall be smartly designed to achieve the objective of the regulatory framework at the lowest possible cost. Within the EU, Sweden is pushing for all Member States to comply with existing animal welfare legislation and to increase the ambitions of animal welfare legislation at EU level. 3. The aim of the work on a food strategy is to increase employment, production, exports, innovation and the profitability of food production while achieving the relevant national environmental objectives. The link between competitive food production and security of supply is one aspect of the food strategy. The Government intends to come back to the formulation of objectives within the framework of the Food Strategy when the bill is placed on Parliament's table. 4. One of the objectives of the Government's forthcoming food strategy is to increase the proportion of organic production and consumption of food. The government wants to increase the possibilities for the public sector to procure not only organic but also locally produced food, as long as it does not conflict with the principles of procurement law. However, setting requirements for locally grown food is not in line with the EU Public Procurement Directive. The requirements for procurement must not be discriminatory against other EU countries, for example, to impose requirements on Swedish food only.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-110	Mr President, I would like to I also thought in this conversation between us, Mr Rural Minister, to be a little open and personal. The rural minister's answer is general and to very little obligation. They are concerned about what the government's food strategy will contain or not, but we will see that then. Just the fact that the Environmental Party with its extreme eco-profile in the government influences the direction signals danger and alarms, even stricter rules, higher taxes and extreme focus on mainly 6 – 7 percent of today's Swedish food production but no focus on the totally dominant common environmentally friendly production. I hope I'm wrong. Their influence is also shown in the fact that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht constantly repeats that no Swedish environmental and animal welfare rules should be simplified or adapted in the EU direction and replaced by increased industry responsibility, as in the case of forests. Instead, square rules should also be maintained and the targets for eco-ratio should be maintained and raised. Agriculture is at a crucial crossroads. The goal must be a pool of forces to break the decline we have had for a long time and have strong growth. Then clear objectives must be set for how the whole of agriculture should grow, not just a small part. I realise that, in an interpellation debate, the Government cannot go deeper into many issues. My purpose with these three interpellations is primarily to give my input into the work on the very important Swedish food strategy. I hope that the Government and its staff will also consider my analyses and proposals, which are based very much on what the agricultural industry itself, mainly the LRF, very well thought out and clearly put forward and, of course, also on what we in the Center Party are discussing. I am not a spokesperson for the Center Party; Kristina Yngwe and Eskil Erlandsson do that in a commendable way. But I am committed after more than three decades of work in the LRF and the Center Party, and I realize the very seriousness of Swedish agriculture for many years and now. It is good that the government and the Center Party want to develop a food strategy for Sweden. I can say to the Government that this should have happened during the last parliamentary term, but unfortunately it was prevented by the view of a larger party that the strategy should be drawn up jointly for the whole of Europe by the countries of the European Union. That is a completely incomprehensible position. I can confess that my worst time so far during my parliamentary term was when the same forces pushed a shock increase in the diesel tax for agriculture by SEK 600 million, which the whole Parliament unfortunately supported. And I voted in favour – my worst moment. The intention was to stimulate the transition to renewable fuels in tractors, where perhaps 1 – 2 per cent are run on biogas or rapeseed oil today. Despite the tax, progress is still stable. Instead, the tax contributes to a decline in the competitiveness of agriculture when 15% of the net income of agriculture goes to an EU-uniquely high fuel tax. An agriculture without tractors and food production does not provide tax revenue or food industries, and that is why, in my opinion, the diesel tax must be adjusted downwards. It brings all farmers money, and that is the only way to reduce the costs of agriculture by half a billion or more without the EU being able to say bottle. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht argues a little provocatively that the government invests SEK 300 million in agriculture, when it has first raised the diesel tax by SEK 200 million. It's a pretty cheap lawyer's job.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-121	Mr President, I would like to Now we are back to the interesting discussion on the food strategy. Liberals have long thought that such a strategy is a good idea. It is based on the fact that we see that there is great potential to produce food, develop new products and exploit the added value we have in Sweden in order to create profitable companies in rural areas. Both the Liberals and the rest of the Alliance have therefore wanted to contribute constructively to the work, for today there is a large majority in the Riksdag to produce a food strategy. I do not know if this is the right time, but I would like to raise the issue of how the work is carried forward. It is a bit frustrating, and you have the feeling that the whole discussion on the food strategy has ended up in a long way. We've had different day notes about when the bill would come. According to the answer, it would come in spring 2016, but it is perhaps a truth with some modification. Previously, we have been told that this is more like the summer of 2016. Perhaps the Minister has the opportunity to develop when we can expect it to actually happen? The food strategy can contain a lot, and I talked about the Swedish added value. But the main starting points for liberals are competitiveness and the consumer perspective. It is not a good thing that there is now frustration among all the actors involved in this over the fact that it is running out of time. They are beginning to distrust the policy and our ability to gather around this. I believe that much of the responsibility lies with the government, which should take the matter forward more effectively than is currently the case.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-124	Mr President, I would like to Work on the food strategy is important, and it is good that it becomes a strategy. Long-term work is important. I believe that some of the work undertaken by the previous government, albeit not precisely in strategy form, can be well captured in such long-term work. I'd like to start by saying that. I hear a lot from people who are involved in this or who have had to intervene in the food strategy in different ways, and there is considerable concern about what it will lead to. One problem in this context I think is that the government does not really know what it wants, and then it becomes so that you start a lot of processes. You want to embrace very much and capture all kinds of aspects because you yourself are not clear on what boundaries you have planned to do. This creates uncertainty as to what the focus will be in the strategy. I think it is extremely important to maintain a clear focus on issues such as competitiveness, opportunities for increased production and exports, focus on research and so on. Somewhere there, I think the focus needs to be. But there are signals that there are many other things that should also be considered important, and sometimes the positions can be difficult to reconcile. I just hope that the government lands in reasonable balance in the end. As I said, long-term work is important, but it does not mean that short-term work is not important as well. There are concrete problems that are of an acute nature. We touched on some of them in the previous debate. Swedish authorities act in a way that no other EU country does and prohibits plant protection products, which is at risk of destroying significant parts of Swedish cultivation. It is a huge problem, and unfortunately it is not solved in a food strategy. If this work is important, the concrete and urgent problems of this strategy will not be solved. I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Development once again what he is prepared to do in the specific case of the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish farms which are now in danger of being knocked out. In this context, I would like to point out that the Competitiveness Report presented its final report over a year ago. There are several proposals that could have been taken forward and implemented without waiting for the major food strategy to be completed. The problem is that this risks being pulled a little bit long. The food strategy was initially promised to come much earlier. We had a date in February and one in March, and now it is June. We have come to the conclusion that this will be dealt with at some point in the autumn. The important thing is, of course, that the strategy is good, but the urgent problems should have been solved in parallel in the meantime. I would like to comment on the diesel tax, which has been in a couple of turns. The government and the Minister for Rural Development are beating their chests because they have increased the diesel tax reduction, but the Minister forgets to tell us that at the same time the diesel tax was increased very significantly. The net effect for Swedish farmers of the reduction is therefore virtually zero. Maybe you shouldn't be so smart. We were against the increase in the diesel tax while proposing a reduction of 170 million SEK per year, we would equal about 50 øre per litre. That would be a real improvement for the peasants. I think the Minister for Rural Development can tone down the rhetoric a little bit. The government has not made a big effort here, but it has increased the tax and then given compensation with the other hand. The sum will be zero.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-133	Mr President, I would like to Let's start by sorting out the diesel tax. The strongest increase made the alliance government twice. It was more than twice as much as this government increased the diesel tax. The Alliance government also weakened the diesel tax reduction by SEK 2 and 34 cents. This government improved the diesel tax reduction by 1.70. Jacobsson Gjörtler refers to the Competitiveness Investigation and says that something should have been done. It presented s a year ago. It says in the K on-currency inquiry precisely about the diesel tax reduction, and we have started to do this. It also says about employers' contributions in the investigation. A proposal is now for a referral on a reduction in the employer's contribution when you hire the first year. It's in there. There are also some other issues that we are working on in the Competitiveness Investigation. It is the basis for the food strategy we are working on. Staffan Danielsson says that we need strong growth in Sweden. We have strong growth in Sweden – plus 4 percent in bnp. We increase exports by 5%. It has been a long time since we increased exports so strongly in Sweden. We have 80 000 more jobs in one year, less than 7% unemployment and a decrease in youth unemployment. There is strong growth in Sweden, and there is also growth on the food side, where exports are increasing. We stimulate food exports and give 10 million more to the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency to work with export approval. It is a question of promotion, not least in Asia, where we have put a food Attaché in place in Beijing. We have recently received an agreement on new exports of food to China, Hong Kong and Japan. There are a lot of things happening, but we still have far too little food production in this country. We import about 50%. It is worrying that we are so dependent on other countries in view of natural disasters that can knock out huge crops. Not least in view of demographic trends, it is worrying that we have such low production in Sweden. The population of the globe increased by 240 000 people yesterday. About as many more are we going to be today. In Sweden, we are about to blow up the 10 millionth limit ourselves. It is clear that we must have domestic food production. We can't just get the food from outside, where it might be needed better. Food is something we cannot opt out of. It is not possible to opt out, and it cannot be produced anywhere other than in rural areas. The question is on which countryside it will be produced – in Swedish or in other rural areas. I choose the Swedish countryside. That is why the government is so committed to a national food strategy. It is about having several different perspectives: production perspectives and competitiveness perspectives. But don't forget the consumer perspective! Someone's going to buy the chow. Someone's gonna pay for the production. That is why we must have a strong consumer perspective and look at what the consumer is asking for. Organic consumption grew by 38 per cent in 2014 and by 39 per cent in 2015. We are importing lots of organic food today. Of course it is better that we produce them in Swedish countryside, right, Staffan Danielsson? This is where we should have production – not in other countries.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-141	Mr President, I would like to We import organic products, but we import a lot more common products – 55% of our food. We will slow down; we agree on that. I want to drum my messages, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Excuse me for a bit of repetition. There is absolutely a need for an offensive Swedish food strategy. It is necessary to turn Swedish food production from decline to strong growth. But it must be offensive. Otherwise, it's worth nothing. It must contain strong measures to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture. There, substantial growth targets for the whole of Swedish food production must be set. I think the LRF proposal should be a good foundation. The vision must then be like a doubling of 25-30 years. Swedish production is far too small. However, this requires a broad pool of forces across all borders to speak for food produced as close as possible with regulations in line with the Swedish. The pool of forces must include industry, industry, trade, politics, consumers, environmental organisations and even more. These should agree on a production target with strong growth orientation that should be equated with other societal objectives, such as environmental objectives – as already applies to forestry. Forests are also an example of environmental rules. They are close to the EU level, and the industry itself has taken responsibility for sharper environmental rules, which are then certified in industry programmes and bring added value to the market. Listen to the agriculture and forestry industry, Minister! If regulations and laws are reviewed and adapted in a part of the EU, while the industry is given the confidence to certify much of what is adapted, agriculture can maintain a high level of environmental and animal welfare and better receive added value than is needed today. If this flexible necessity is not taken into account, the risk is quite obvious that crayfish are continuing instead and that imports are increasing, which is the very worst for the environment and animal welfare. A review of the tax burden on agriculture must be carried out. Swedish agriculture with its higher production costs must be compensated with equal or lower taxes than other countries – not the other way around. It pays off in that the vital Swedish agriculture can continue, keep food industries going and give jobs and tax revenues in the future as well. The worst thing is that agriculture is being competed out by imports. It must not continue to happen. Unfortunately, the Minister for Agriculture's response to public procurement of food is very weak and certainly strongly influenced by environmental parties. First of all, the Minister only highlights the importance of increasing the proportion of organic food, and not the fact that the target must be for growth in the whole of agriculture, where 93% comes from ordinary agriculture. The Minister then says that the government wants to increase the opportunities to procure not only organic but also locally produced food. Not only, but also, it says. Listen, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, to Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi on procurement issues! Do not make the MP mistake of setting an echo as the norm and the agriculture that accounts for 93% of production as the exception. Public procurement shall require food from animals raised in places with rules equivalent to the Swedish environmental and animal welfare rules. I know that the EU rules do not allow to explicitly demand local culture, but it will be the same result if you want and dare to make the right demands as Shekarabi does.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-149	Mr President, I would like to The Minister's speech that food is produced in rural areas makes me want to reproduce something that I heard the other day: a rural area somewhere will always provide us with food and energy. Then why not our own? I heard that at a seminar held by the alliance parties on the food strategy, and I think that was a good thing to say. I have to thank someone, but I don't really know who said it. Mr President, I would like to We talk about competitiveness and so, and we have a clear trend in Sweden today that the consumer is asking for Swedish food. It has been shown not least on the meat side. It's going pretty well there now. This trend is based on the consumer seeing that there is Swedish added value and that the industry has become better at highlighting it. It is also part of the food strategy. We have a shared responsibility. Policy has a legitimate responsibility for the regulatory framework, taxes, charges and so on, but the industry also has a responsibility to market and market the supply of goods. Now we did not get any new news from the Minister, so I assume that we will see this bill on Parliament's table in June and that it focuses on competitiveness, the consumer perspective and Swedish added value. Now that we are talking about food strategy, I cannot help but say that it is not only Swedish agriculture that produces food, but also Swedish fisheries and Swedish aquaculture. Perhaps they can be in a small corner even in the food strategy.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-154	Mr President, I would like to Let's start by sorting out the diesel tax. The Minister for Rural Development notes that a substantial increase in diesel tax was made during the previous government. That is true, but you voted in favour of it. All parties voted in favour of this increase in diesel tax. It will be a little strange to accuse others of raising a tax when you have voted for the increase yourself. I can see that there is a problem with tax increases in general and perhaps with this in particular. But what is important in this case is what the net effect is for the farmers. The current government has increased the diesel tax and then provides compensation with the other hand, but the net effect for the farmers is zero. What we did was in our budget option we said no to your tax increase and at the same time increased our compensation to the farmers, which gave a positive net effect to the farmers. Then we've worked it out. As for the strategy, I'm a little concerned about where this is going to land. The Minister for Rural Development states here in his reply that much is not clear. M one thing seems to be clear, and that is that one goal to be included is to increase the proportion of organic production and consumption of organic food. I think this is strange and unfocused. Organic production is a form of production among many others. What we are seeing is precisely what the Minister for Rural Development is also addressing, that is, demand for organically increasing. The market handles this all by itself. Production increases as demand increases. What is the purpose of setting a target for something that the market itself can manage? I think the risk is that this will be unfocused. It is important that the government prioritises, demarches and focuses so that the food strategy becomes clear. The objectives shall be clear, timed and measurable. At the same time, the government must tackle the short-term problems. What does the government do about the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate now, through its decisions, risk destroying Swedish cultivation?
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-158	Mr President, I would like to There are many things that you have to work with when strengthening a business climate. Support must be given to the growth and entrepreneurship of the business community. Today we are talking about the companies we call agriculture. When supporting you must also take advantage of what Swedish companies, Swedish agriculture and Swedish food production are good at and also take advantage of what the market demands. The consumer perspective cannot be ignored. I am convinced that we must raise the Swedish added value in a much better way than we have ever done before. It's about the environmental thinking that exists. We're world champions at it. We're world champions of animal health. We use the least antibiotics in the EU. We're a salmonella-free country. We have water that many countries lack. We have 600 000 hectares of arable land that are not under plough. It is clear that we have the conditions to produce more Swedish food. It can be organically or conventionally grown – or environmentally adapted as I usually call Swedish conventional agriculture, because Swedish conventional agriculture is more environmentally friendly than many other countries' agriculture. Tysklind mentioned the bill. This is an important bill and nothing that can be rushed forward. We expect to be able to present it at Parliament's table at the end of May. We must work on this in such a way that we get a broad majority in Parliament for it. If we engage in party political pie-throwing and do not have a food strategy, we will not solve these problems in the long term. Let's take this in common. Then the action plans to achieve the objectives can be very different depending on the government that sits. We will have an action plan to achieve the objectives, but try not to have party political prestige in this, too. It is far too important for this country that we increase our food production. We mustn't lose sight of this. Public procurement is a very important element. It is important so that you can also trade with the special requirements that we have on Swedish food production. I and Minister Shekarabi are in complete agreement on that. There will be new legislation. After all, we have an opportunity with the existing EU directive, and we have even put a procurement authority in place to help Swedish municipalities and county councils make procurements in a correct and good way. The government is thus strengthening this part to a very large extent. I would like to give an example of this with Swedish added value and how consumers control it. I usually go to Ica, Coop, Hemköp and so on, and then I look at the pork fillet piles. In the fridge there are not many pork fillets from Sweden for 149 crowns left. And the $79 pound pork fillet is still in piles. There, consumers show what they want and that they value Swedish quality very highly. I believe in Swedish agriculture.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-167	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the dialogue, Minister for Rural Affairs. I know the Minister for Rural Development as an honorable and rural-friendly person who wants well and tries. That's good. But he has a party, a finance minister and another government party to drag, and that is where my great concern lies. I would therefore like to strengthen the Minister for Rural Development in his tough fight in the internal regions. I know that the Social Democrats, unlike the Green Party, understand what effective agriculture means and what farmers and food industries mean. I hope that the Social Democrats and the Center Party, and the Alliance, can agree on a strong food strategy. It must be strong, Minister. Swedish agriculture is so badly exposed. Of course you buy pork now. That's great. But Sweden's production of pigs has decreased from 4 million to 2 1⁄2 million in 25 years. It has to turn around. It is good that there are signs that it is turning around, but it needs to be strengthened. The milk crisis, which we are about to discuss, is acute. There it does not increase. A strong food strategy is therefore needed. As I said, it is good that Ardalan Shekarabi and Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht agree that we should procure and be able to set requirements for Swedish added value. But what I criticised in the interpellation response was that the demands should primarily be directed at a niche of agriculture, organic, and not the whole of agriculture. Then it'll be wrong. I know exactly where those thoughts come from. I hope that we can reach a broad agreement on the strategy, on a growth target for the whole of agriculture. There too, of course, will be an increase in eco-certification. But it will, as Jonas Jacobsson Gjörtler developed so well, be done on market conditions.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-172	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson expresses concern that I have a Minister of Finance to drag on. I have a fantastic Minister of Finance who runs Swedish agriculture and rural areas. I think it was much more difficult for Staffan Danielsson during the last term of office when the Minister of Finance said that he did not believe in Swedish production farming. Today we have a finance minister who does. When it comes to public procurement and Swedish added value, it includes, among other things, organic, but also many other things. It is clear that we should also be able to use Swedish added value in public procurement. Food production is important. This government has a very tough target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. The tough target is almost mocking us. But it is extremely important that people get jobs and can realize their life dreams. In this industry – agriculture, primary production, the food industry – there is an opportunity to create new jobs. Today, more than 50 000 people work in primary production and 55 000 in the food and beverage industry. It is clear that if we increase this production we can quickly get many new jobs and many new jobs in Swedish rural areas. This is really important stuff. That is why we must have a strong food strategy. But, best friends, don't use the argument. If I don't get exactly what I think I'm voting against. In that case, we do not get a food strategy. Instead, use the power to set long - term goals. Maybe they're not clear. But use the action plan to make them a reality. Make sure it's a workshop! It's a workshop that will count.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-177	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked me whether I am prepared to work to ensure that, in all possible contexts, agriculture should not be described as being hazardous to the environment, but as life-saving activities. I agree with Staffan Danielsson's argument that agriculture is vitally important. I believe in Swedish agriculture and Swedish food. That is why I and the government will present a proposal for a new food strategy to the Riksdag in 2016. The starting point of the work on the food strategy is that there is great potential in Swedish food production and downstream. Swedish food production has the potential to contribute to increased growth and employment throughout the country and to the Government's target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU 2020. Green industries and the food industry are important for sustainable development and growth throughout the country. In parts of the country, active farming is a prerequisite for housing and positive rural development. The agricultural landscape contains natural and cultural values that are of great importance for tourism, outdoor life and quality of life for rural residents and visitors. I am well aware that there are challenges for agriculture. One example is the environmental risks that exist and which require compliance with established environmental regulations. The measures proposed by the government aim to contribute to competitiveness as well as green change and to achieve national environmental quality objectives. The Government's ambition is that Swedish food production, both conventional and organic, should be competitive by, among other things, continuing to exploit and develop Swedish added value – a sustainable production of safe food with high climate and environmental ambitions, as well as good animal health and good animal welfare.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-182	Mr President, I would like to I'm working on the minister today. But I don't do that every day. So we take everything at once. Of course, agriculture affects the environment, both positively and negatively. Without agriculture, we have no pastures, no fields, less biodiversity and no cycle. But there is also a risk of, for example, plant nutrient leakage. We are human beings, and without agricultural food production, the population on earth would be drastically reduced. Agriculture and food production are therefore a vital activity for man, with both positive and negative effects on the environment. The signal value of how the state chooses to designate agriculture in different contexts is extremely important. It is unacceptable, as is now happening, to focus very much on the fact that agriculture's activities are environmentally dangerous, that it should be the entrance. We face growing generations who even feel fear of agriculture and its vital activities. A change in the way agriculture should be designated does not change the important work on farms and on the part of the authorities in constantly reducing the environmental burden on agriculture. This work will continue, taking into account that Swedish agriculture is very far ahead. The regulatory framework and costs must not be tightened so much that production is discontinued and replaced by food imports from countries whose agriculture affects the environment considerably more than the Swedish industry does. In that case, the best has become the enemy of the good, which neither benefits Swedish agriculture nor the environment. Swedish agriculture and food production are internationally at the forefront of environmental and animal welfare. Agriculture is the original basic industry and plays a crucial role in enabling soil, sun and photosynthesis to be used to produce the vital food that we must all have. Unfortunately, Sweden is today the EU's most import-dependent country. Sweden is doing everything in its power to reduce all the environmental disturbances of environmentally hazardous agriculture. The ideal for our authorities sometimes seems to be soils that are grown with grass or forest or nature reserves. Sweden interprets the EU's new water directives the hardest. Perhaps we will close down and import from other countries that do not interpret so strictly. That is not acceptable. A development leading to the relocation of agriculture would be scandalous. I admit that the interpellation is a bit philosophical, Minister. One reason I have written it is that Sweden, Swedish politicians and Swedish authorities do not hesitate to make sometimes too high demands on the already environmentally friendly Swedish agriculture. One reason should certainly be that it is seen primarily as an environmentally dangerous activity, corresponding to the mining industry and paper mills. It might be better if it moved out of Sweden so that we can import the food and so that the environmental disturbances are taken there instead. But agriculture is not compared with environmentally damaging, chemical and other industries. Agriculture is a vital activity that uses soil, sun, water and photosynthesis to create food and energy, open landscapes and living areas. It is good that the Minister for Agriculture and I agree that agriculture in Sweden and the world is vital business. However, the Minister for Agriculture does not really say that the concept of environmentally hazardous has been given far too much weight. Together, we should coin the concept of vital activity as a signal word in the contexts where possible. Is the Minister for Rural Development really not prepared to work with me and others for this good?
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-193	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson sometimes christens me to the Minister for Agriculture in his speeches. I take this as a compliment that shows that Staffan Danielsson sees this rural minister working hard for Swedish agriculture. All human activities have in one way or another a more or less environmental impact. Swedish agriculture is definitely world class when it comes to environmental thinking. It does not affect the way agriculture does in many other countries where it has a very strong impact on the environment and climate. For example, there is a large production of milk in combination with meat production. This also means that Swedish meat does not have the same climate impact as meat from other countries, which in recent times has of course been very much discussed in connection with the Rural Minister's statement that he likes meat. He also said that he likes fish and loves Swedish vegetables. So there are many dimensions to this. Staffan Danielsson says that the focus should be on Swedish food, primary production and the food industry. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven wrote in his first government declaration in autumn 2014 that we should have a national food strategy. For the first time, there is a food strategy in a government declaration in Sweden. It is clear that we put a lot of focus on a food strategy and in this way create jobs in Swedish countryside so that it will live and feel good. Of course, other measures are also needed, not only that there are farms that are doing well. Service is also needed, and this government is now investing heavily in rural shops. We are increasing investment aid for the country trade by more than twice as much, i.e. 88 million annually in investment aid, and 35 million annually in operating aid for those rural traders who are particularly vulnerable. It is important that there are rural shops so that farms can exist and live there. We also invest in education and digitalisation to expand broadband. It is not possible to empty a milk tank today without connecting to a computer system. It is important to build broadband in Swedish rural areas in order for the agricultural industry to be able to live, operate and develop there.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-199	Mr President, I would like to We'll talk a little bit past each other here, Minister for Rural Affairs. We agree on a great deal. Then we can discuss whether the funds and measures are in line with what we agree on. But it's stable. Words are very important, and necessity is a very important signal word. What is the first thing you think about when making decisions about Swedish agriculture in parliament and authorities? Is it that it is an environmentally dangerous activity type paper industry and chemical industry that should be limited and preferably moved out of Sweden? Or should we think: This is a vital activity that uses soil, water, sun, and photosynthesis to sustainably produce what all people must have, namely food? I think it's important that we have the other entrance as the main entrance. I would argue that, unfortunately, it does not exist today in many authorities, in many schools and so on. The word environmentally dangerous takes over. The Minister has simply not gone into that question. I would like to return to the fact that it would be valuable if we had it as a helicopter word for this operation. Then, of course, we will work in the environmental code, within agencies and together with the industry to continue to reduce the negative environmental impacts that exist, but which is smaller in Sweden compared to all the countries on the planet. That's my point. A parallel to this is the word ecology. One reason for the great success of the concept of ecological certification is the fact that one has taken a monopoly on a scientific concept, ecology. This means that many people believe that there is only one environmental alternative in the world when it comes to agriculture, the organic. It's brilliant, but it's not quite correct. This gives marketing a force, especially when the Swedish Society for Nature Conservation and others put this against the poison farm in Sweden. But the Minister for Agriculture has agreed that it is, of course, the best common environmental agriculture in the world that we must not put the knife in our backs with such wording. Words are very important. To return to how Swedish agriculture should be designated, I hope that the Minister for Agriculture will take this debate with him and think a little about it in his Chamber together with his colleagues. I would be very happy if the concept of vital activities for Swedish agriculture were used more often in writings and texts from the government, in instructions from the authorities and so on. The environmentally dangerous part can be involved, but at a lower level. That is what I wanted to highlight with this debate and send along to the Minister for Agriculture and to everyone else who writes about agriculture and food. Agriculture in the world, and especially in Sweden, is a vital activity that we should be careful about. We are going to make it as environmentally friendly as possible, but we should first of all not have the entrance that the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and others should make tougher demands so that agriculture risks moving abroad because it is so environmentally dangerous. It is basically a vital activity, and that is what we should highlight.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-206	Mr President, I would like to The concept of environmentally hazardous activities was introduced in 1969 in Sweden's environmental legislation. Given that it has been so long ago, one might think that this is a very archaic concept of how companies today engage in environmental work. There is a big difference compared to when the concept was introduced in 1969. I hope there will be more people like me and Staffan Danielsson who use the concept of life necessity. I often use that concept. Swedish agriculture is a vital necessity for a living countryside. A viable and active forestry and agriculture is also a very important part for us to be able to cope with the climate change, We have good conditions for both agriculture and forestry in Sweden. We have access to land and natural production conditions. As an example, 70 per cent of Sweden's surface is covered by forest. It is clear that we need to use it in a smart way in the climate transition. Used forest takes up CO2 so that it splashes. Then we also have competence. There is a development power and enormous competence in agriculture. This competence exists both in organic farming and in environmentally adapted agriculture. It is a question of creating competitiveness for all parts. We need to highlight the Swedish added value much more. It is the future to be able to export more too. I have travelled in Asia for promotion. It says that we have such safe and high-quality food in Sweden. That is why we want to buy our food, not because it is cheap.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-211	Mr President, I would like to I might not have needed this final post, but I took on something the Minister said and wanted to make a contribution. Swedish added value – yes! Sweden is very well located with our basic bolts: salmonella freedom, low antibiotic use, educated farmers, good climate and everything. But Sweden's farmers cannot be far ahead. We have been investing in the Swedish model since the 90s, and we have lost 25 per cent of the production. There must also be a focus on costs. We cannot be too far ahead, but sometimes we may have to adapt, simplify some rules and let the industry take responsibility. The costs mean a lot. We need to look at developments. It is not certain that more of the Sami is enough, but we must also focus on increasing competitiveness and profitability through lower costs, taxes and charges and through simplifications. But it is a different debate from that on the necessity of agriculture. I thank you for the debate and hope that it will lead us to the fact that, together, we sometimes use this word more than before.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-215	Mr President, I would like to I assume that we fully agree that Swedish agriculture is a vital necessity and that we must increase Swedish production, but also that we must increase it in a sustainable way and take responsibility for the environment. I think it's very important that we do it that way. Thank you for a good debate, and well met in the next debate, Staffan!
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-217	Mr President, I would like to Staffan Danielsson has asked me whether the government and I intend to intervene in order to improve the conditions for the Swedish milk industry in various ways. I am convinced that milk is a sector of the future in our country. Sweden has good conditions for milk production. We have plenty of land and water, great know-how and good animal welfare. The consumption of milk is increasing in the world. On the other hand, it is part of world market conditions that the balance between supply and demand is shifting, making prices variable. It is a challenge for our dairy companies to find strategies to deal with this. In February 2015, I called a meeting with representatives of organisations, companies and authorities related to milk production. The initiative was taken in the light of industry concerns about the critical situation in many Swedish dairy companies. A joint action plan was developed for milk, in which operators in the sector defined measures to strengthen dairy businesses in the short and long term. I see it as very valuable for the industry to come together in a common strategy, and my view is that all strategies need to be continuously developed in a changing world. The objectives and actions of the Action Plan are driven by the commitment and willingness of stakeholders to act. A number of measures have already been taken by the government to strengthen the competitiveness of dairy enterprises. The government has referred a proposal to reduce employers' contributions for the first employee. This is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2017. Other measures include a beef premium under the single payment scheme, compensation for increased cloven-hoofed health in the rural development programme, maximum national co-financing of the specific EU aid to milk producers, export promotion measures for the dairy sector and conditional use of medicines. Agriculture is also fully compensated for the diesel tax increases made in 2016. In addition, a temporary reduction of the tax on agricultural and forestry machinery is made by an additional 27 øre per litre in the years 2016– 2018. The temporary reduction corresponds to a reduced cost for agriculture by about SEK 100 million per year. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the government is working on developing a national food strategy to strengthen competitiveness in the food chain. The aim is to strengthen and develop Swedish food production in the long term and strategically, where milk has a central part.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-222	Mr President, I would like to The production of pig meat, beef and poultry has fallen sharply in Sweden, and milk production is now in a major and deeply serious crisis, draining dairy farms of capital and leading to bankruptcies and closures. The bankruptcy of a farmer is absolutely devastating because, in principle, loans are always guaranteed also with their private economy and therefore often both lose the farm and have to carry millions of debts on in their lives. Many common dairy farmers – echo milk is hardly covered by the crisis – who have made millions of investments over the last decade, most often encouraged by advisors, industry, politicians and banks, now see their calculations in ruins when the milk price is at the 1980s level due to the liberalisation of the EU and of Russia and China's declining imports. It is good that the EU is now discussing various measures, such as production restrictions, export subsidies and national support measures, because that is the depth of the crisis. The government's answer is short and lean as a stick, I think. It is good that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht believes in Swedish milk production, even though it bleeds. He sees it as a challenge for our dairy companies to find strategies and strategies when the price is at the 1980s level. Yes, thank you! Very little has been done by the government. There has been an action plan, a talk of loan guarantees that did not contribute and a reduction in the employer's contribution for the first employee in a company without employees. It's good, but very little. The Government mentions compensation for increased cloven-hoofed health care and some other things. Does the government not hear how empty and hollow this echoes? If I were a hard-pressed dairy farmer with ferocious results and bankruptcy hanging over my head, I'd tear my hair. Is it the fault of individual entrepreneurs that they have invested and to some extent relied on price stability over the last 100 years? Or does the state also have a responsibility through radically changed conditions? The latter is what I think. In recent years, the state has, through various regulations, provided stability in the conditions, because milk production is extremely labor- and capital-intensive and a farmer who invests heavily must rely on stability. There has been such a thing. But now it's a completely different situation. The EU has removed its milk quotas. Russia and China have reduced their imports. The price of milk has fallen from 3.50 per kilogram to the 1980s level, that is, 2.50 - 2.60 kronor per kilogram of milk. Other countries are acting. They feel a responsibility to support hard-pressed entrepreneurs when the crisis is at its worst. There has been widespread talk of government credit guarantees, but it did not contribute anything. The government did not support the Center Party's proposal for lower diesel taxes, nor did it support the temporary EU contribution to reducing surpluses. Will the government support voluntary production restrictions, which are now under discussion, and use the open-ended possibility of national aid? Will the government use more of the rural development programme for targeted environmental payments to dairy farms? Will the government support a national campaign to support Swedish environmentally friendly milk production, a broad campaign to buy milk, cheese and file that is locally produced under good environmental and animal welfare conditions? Action is needed, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, but it has been meager with such. A strategy for the future is good, but action is also needed now. I can only speak for the dairy farmers I meet. They're desperate, because current prices don't go around. You're bleeding. It is not good for Swedish rural areas, Swedish food industry, Swedish agriculture or Sweden.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-230	Mr President, I would like to The government and I are well aware that this is a tough and challenging situation for milk producers. There is an imbalance in the world market. This applies not only to Swedish farmers, but to farmers throughout the EU. In fact, today is a huge problem in the world. The peasants are under pressure. There are different regulations in the other countries, but they are under pressure anyway. They may have very low costs, but are still under pressure. When there is overproduction, it is a problem. There is a background to this overproduction. In 2013, total production increased very strongly globally. It had to do with China asking for a lot. New Zealand increased by almost 14 percent, Brazil by nearly 9 percent. The United States increased. Europe increased by 5.6% during this time. Sweden even increased production by 2 per cent. When China stopped importing and the Russian embargo came into place, of course, the air went out. That's the explanation. There is a huge imbalance in the world market. But in the long term it is estimated that demand will increase. We have now even received milk powder export permits to China, among other things. This is very important for us to get the products into new markets. That's why the government spends a lot of money on exports. Staffan Danielsson says it echoes empty. I'll read it again. I recommend that Staffan Danielsson then read the minutes to see what is being done. This is a reduction in employers' contributions for the first year. That corresponds to quite a few thousands a month for a farmer. That is the equivalent of quite a lot of the ear on the milk, 5, 6, 7 the ear on the milk for a farmer. It is maximum national co-financing. There are 155 million paid out to Swedish farmers. Far from all EU countries it co-finances. Sweden makes maximum co-financing. It's the diesel tax. This means that we spend 300 million more in the state budget over three years. That's 900 million. We'll double the methane gas subsidy by another 30 million. That's 240 million in the period paid out in methane gas subsidies. It's a great thing for agriculture. We set aside SEK 150 million for increased cloven-hoofed health care. The cash is 800 kroner per animal. It's a new support. It is advice to the dairy companies together with LRF Milk where we invest a number of millions. We are also investing in innovation. It is a major programme of 300 million for agricultural innovation during the programming period. We have export promotion measures. Business Sweden immediately got when the milk crisis arose 300 000 SEK extra to work with those pieces. We have invested 10 million in the Swedish Board of Agriculture and Food and Agriculture to approve facilities. We have invested 2 – 3 million in agricultural councils in Beijing. We also invest money on conditional drug use that will also make it cheaper. Even if Staffan Danielsson calls it empty and says that there is nothing, there are still 12 points that I read out. About Staffan to the next post have forgotten the points: Take out a protocol and put it on the nightstand!
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-247	Mr President, I would like to It is not completely empty, and some have been done. I'll go with it. I'm happy about that. What the Government read out here about co-financing is good. The fact that the diesel tax fell slightly instead of being substantially increased for agriculture is a good thing. But it was a shame that it was raised first. I am sending that the European Union should not murmur at all that we reduced the costs of agriculture by half a billion or more by adapting the diesel tax to the European level. I think the food strategy should contain this. It may not last overnight, but it must be the ambition. There is no reasonable reason why agriculture should be so much higher in the almost largest cost item it has compared to other EU farmers. I am giving kredd to the Minister for the efforts that have been made anyway. But it's a huge milk crisis. The situation is acute, and much more is needed. The industry and the companies have a responsibility, and believe me as they fight! But the state and all of us also have a responsibility for reasonable stability in an emergency situation. That's what we have now. In principle, I am in favour of all measures that can reduce the costs of dairy businesses in the short and long term and increase their income. The worst part is the disappearance of dairy businesses. Then open landscapes, biodiversity, cycles and the food industry disappear. That is why the efforts are needed. They cost, but they pay. Let me highlight some of the things we have already talked about in part. There is a need for a review of Swedish taxes and charges and a reduction to EU levels. Of course, it is good to reduce employers' contributions, but they are still very high. Fuel taxes are the big clip we could do to reduce the costs of all farmers, and not least of the dairy farmers, without the EU murmuring. I may think it is better than introducing new contributions if the elections are in between. But as far as milk is concerned, I think it's both necessary. An animal welfare allowance within the rural development programme aimed at the industry can certainly be found for and justified. I think that's necessary. Voluntary production restrictions, together with targeted aid, are something that the EU will in all likelihood now make possible, which the Minister has probably been against. I think that is also absolutely necessary. There I hope that the Minister can have a good dialogue with the industry and find a way forward. This is where action is needed. The strength that I hope will come from the food strategy could be put in place immediately by the partners, industry, trade, industry, politics and, not least, environmental organisations calling on consumers in Sweden to act environmentally friendlyly by buying milk, cheese and file that is originating in Sweden. That would boost the nutrition. It would focus on that one primarily buys what is originally marked Swedish. My message is, Minister: listen to the farming industry, listen to the food industry and listen to the Center Party! I hope that he will be able to rumble some money from the Minister for Finance, who sees agriculture as a future business and certainly wants to contribute, right, Minister Bucht?
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-257	Mr President, I would like to Sure, we'd like to do more. But the starting point was not the best. That was minus 67 billion in the Treasury. We've done a lot. Not least was a step to get a finance minister who believes in Swedish production agriculture. We had such a minister of finance who believed in it. The twelve points I listed, Staffan Danielsson, mean that many millions of people from the Treasury go to these more or less urgent measures to curb the problems that exist. Discussions are also ongoing at EU level on further action. There have been presentations in both the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture and the EU Board that what is important is that these efforts should have a more market-oriented character and that what is done at EU level should not be of a market-distorting nature. It has also been the Swedish position. What is now agreed is an increase in the volume of intervention. Nevertheless, it is least damaging to the market, but it may partially disrupt the markets. Intervention volumes for both butter and milk powder are now doubling. Then there are other things that are being discussed at European level. It is very important that we open up new markets. In this way we also work to promote exports from Sweden. We have adopted the new export strategy. We work not least against countries in Asia. We have recently received three agreements dealing with agricultural products and milk products in both China and Hong Kong and Japan. It's very important. In the immediate area, Swedish labelling is important. There, the industries have taken very positive steps. Swedish meat is one example. It was done a number of years ago and has been a success. Swedish labelling will now also be made on dairy products. The launch starts next week, and I'm invited to that launch. That too is an important part. We can talk about the public procurement of more Swedish food and dairy products. But Swedish public access, municipalities and county councils, accounts for about 4 per cent of total consumption. All of us other consumers account for 96%. It is very important how we behave when we go to our Ica store, Konsum deal, Hemköpshandel or whatever it is called and what products we choose. It also matters how the trader exhibits the products. It depends on many different things. It will be a huge force if the 96 percent begin to choose Swedish. Then the picture and opportunities change quickly – much faster than political action.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-266	Mr President, I would like to I will give a few words to what the Minister has repeated and, as all the Social Democrats say, namely that Sweden was in a terrible state when you took over and that Sweden is now doing fantastically well. Actually, it's because none of your budgets have gone through yet. It's a little demagogy. The alliance was good at managing the economy during a very deep financial crisis. Job spinning was achieved with the help of job policy, which is now blooming. In fact, it is not your policy that is blooming now, but it is eight years of alliance rule and nine years of budgets that are blooming. Enough of this! Thank you for three debates with the Minister for Rural Development. I appreciate that he has come to the House and thought through my views and questions. I hope, as I said, that they can be included in your work, and I am very excited about the food strategy. Is it going to be a flop or is it going to be bloody serious? Will there be something that we can gather around and that contains powerful measures? That would be necessary and good. I fully agree with the Minister's last speech on what it means that Swedish consumers choose to buy and prioritise environmental and animal welfare. It's extremely important. As the Minister said, meat and pork are spinning. That's great. There must also be a twist of cheese. The import cheese has increased a lot. Buy Swedish cheese! It's excellent. This supports environmental and animal welfare, as well as fields grazed by Swedish cows and cultivated by Swedish farmers. There is a need for a pool of forces in which environmental organisations, trade, industry and consumers also provide a coherent message. Please take the initiative on this matter, Minister Bucht.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-272	Mr President, I would like to This morning I have responded to five interpellations which have in some way affected agriculture and the food sector. The last interpellation concerned milk production. These are important discussions. It is extremely important that there is a discussion and that we take a holistic approach to the issues. Production in Sweden must be changed so that it increases. That is where the national food strategy is based. I hope that we can adopt it in this House with a joint club team in which party political prestige does not rule but the idea of Sweden's future. The whole value chain must be included in the food strategy. It concerns primary production, agriculture, coastal fishing and other productions in the greenhouse industry, as well as the large and small food industry. Everybody's got to be there. It's about the beverage industry. It uses raw materials from Swedish agriculture. 70 per cent of the raw materials for the food and beverage industry are sourced from Swedish primary production. It is amazing with this connection. Trade and academia must be involved so that we can develop new interesting products. Not least in the milk sector, new interesting products are needed so that exports can increase. Thank you for a good debate!
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-276	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Olsson has asked me what measures I intend to take so that the Division Committee's proposal for major regions will not knock away the legs of both the highly specialised health care at the USZ and the medical education at Örebro University. First of all, let me point out that the map presented by the Interpartition Committee on 9 March aims, in particular, to provide a basis for further discussion. A final proposal will not be presented until 30 June of this year at the earliest. I have no intention of anticipating the Committee's final proposals. However, it is my view that fewer and stronger regions are an important prerequisite for the positive development of Swedish healthcare. It is of great importance for us to maintain and develop high skills in all parts of the country, and it is necessary for us to achieve equal care where all patients can expect the quality and content of the healthcare offer to be at the same high level regardless of where they reside. Today, we see major shortcomings in the competence provision of county councils, which affect the quality of the care provided. We can see that county councils are already having difficulties in fulfilling their tasks both financially and in terms of quality, and the situation is in danger of getting worse with demographic developments. The previous day, the Swedish Cancer Society presented a forecast showing that the social costs of cancer may double within just under 25 years. Swedish healthcare must be equipped and have a long-term and sustainable structure and organisation for the future. In the long term, therefore, I believe that regionalisation is necessary in order for all the university hospitals in Sweden to have sufficient patient support and development power to be able to assess both highly specialised care and medical education and research.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-282	Mr President, I would like to I thank you very much for the answer, but unfortunately it is an answer that does not calm me when it comes to Örebro University Hospital and the highly specialised care in Örebro. The answer raised the question of regional division and the dilemma of small regions in some parts of the country. That's not what I've been asking you. Building a university hospital requires a very high level of expertise. It requires many people to find a place interesting to live in. First, a long time has been spent on education. Then you have to establish a family, and the children are going to school. Then you're gonna go for a career in a university hospital. This is not like building an ice cream kiosk, but it is a matter of many highly skilled people who spend a large part of their careers and lives in order to settle in a locality. It is extremely important that you can see that there is a future and that you know that what you are investing so strongly in has a vision for the future. A threat picture is, of course, if regional classifications are changed so that the conditions for, among other things, highly specialised care change. Medical training cannot be provided in places where there is no highly specialised care. In Örebro County and surrounding counties, many positive forces have emerged thanks to the medical education. There is an increased interest in research and an increased interest in applying for services in the area – if the courses are still not complete. Local politicians in Örebro County have criticized the alliance government a lot because the government approved medical education to start but did not send enough research money to the university. It will be to speak with a split tongue if you do not really clearly say that it is important that Örebro University should remain with the medical education and that the highly specialised care should remain in Örebro. Here I think that the Social Democracy and ultimately the Minister owe the answer. The issue is important not only for Örebro, but also Värmland and the surrounding area benefit greatly from that care. This is something people are worried about. Patient flows are building up. It costs a huge amount of tax money and resources to create good care chains. It takes a long time to sync the care chains if they break. It is from ambulances that should be used to send people home after a heart surgery to the organisation of follow-up of various interventions in clinics. It must be long-term and properly done. Örebro University has also received reputation as one of the best in the world among the young universities one. It is very difficult, and there is a lot of hard work behind being able to have as high a tail as the university. There is nothing that Sweden needs more than people who want to invest in education and well-educated people who can accept everyone who will need care in the future. We know that the need for a doctor will not diminish in the future. On the contrary, we will need more doctors in the future.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-290	Mr President, I would like to The fact that Lotta Olsson did not receive a reply as detailed as she would have liked is due to the fact that the IC is not finished with her work. A discussion paper has been submitted in the form of a map, but with regard to the final proposal we do not know exactly what it will look like. Lotta Olsson addresses several aspects that are important to consider in the construction of a university and a university hospital. I have great respect for the fact that there are major investments that need to be made in the form of both money and commitment and, of course, in the form of individual commitments from those who work at the university hospital. Lotta Olsson also addresses several positive aspects of Örebro University Hospital. I can agree with many of them – of course I have visited some of the activities myself, had the opportunity to talk to the university management and also met representatives of the university hospital. It is very exciting that is going on in Örebro. This also makes me very confident that Örebro, regardless of which region you will end up in, will take advantage of the good experience and hard work that has been put into both the university and the university hospital. After all, we are facing a future in which the need for highly specialised care will not be less, where the need for doctors will not be less and where the need for there to be activities throughout the country will not be less. I am therefore convinced that the future regional classification that Örebro belongs to will take advantage of the qualities at Örebro University and Örebro University Hospital. But it would be completely wrong for me to comment before there is a final proposal on the table on what action can be taken by the state in terms of both regionalisation and for that matter for universities and university hospitals as such.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-296	Mr President, I would like to Now came the vision that universities' role is important. It was not heard at all in the answer, I thought. I must interpret the Minister as saying that Örebro University is one of the universities with medical training that will remain and that this will be taken into account in the regional classification. Then I find it very strange that Värmland is not included in the proposal that has been put forward. Today 40 per cent of the highly specialised care in the Örebro region is purchased by Värmland, and Värmland is an important partner in building medical education. Much of the practice you do when you go to medical school is done in Värmland. But Värmland may have even more difficulty than Örebro County in recruiting doctors, so I think it is important for the Minister to consider that Värmland actually needs to be with Örebro. We have a long collaboration. I do not want to debate regionalisation at all, but we need to build on what actually exists, on old, well-functioning forms of cooperation and on what has been powerful in creating the skills that exist. For Värmland to be included, I therefore see as a necessity to safeguard this medical education. Because it is not that the Minister wants fewer medical courses or fewer places where doctors are trained in Sweden? I certainly hope so, because that is not what we need. There is also almost a sense of solidarity in that we in Sweden can educate the doctors we need ourselves. Sometimes I can almost be ashamed on behalf of our country of importing doctors to be able to staff our hospitals and health centres instead of training people in the country. It is often the case that doctors from countries who need their doctors still work in Sweden instead of staying in their home country. A welfare country like Sweden should be able to educate its own doctors. It is also the case that many Swedish students dream of training in this profession. They have not previously got into it because there have not been enough training places to secure our need for doctors in the future. This is an important signal in regionalization. Not only is it necessary to redraw the map, but all the functions of ensuring competence in highly specialised care must be included in the regional question. In fact, that is the most difficult question. To draw a line in the country is not very difficult, but to protect highly specialised activities is extremely difficult. It's fast to collapse, but it's very hard to rebuild. It is not certain that it even goes, because if you do not see a future in one place you probably do not move there if you have a high level of education and the opportunity to create a good future somewhere else. So look at this map, and think about it! Do not collapse something that is so important both for Sweden and for the Örebro region and that very many in our part of the country are waiting to get a safe answer about to know how to see their future.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-305	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to go back to why we have entered into a process of forming fewer but larger regions. It is partly for the reasons I stated in my answer – that healthcare is facing major challenges where we see that needs will increase in the future and where we need to meet them in a much more rational and even coordinated way than before. But above all, we believe that with fewer but larger units we have a greater pool of knowledge and that it will be easier to meet major challenges when you do not need to first negotiate between many small county councils but can make strategic decisions within each region. I also believe that the areas of cooperation and the possibility of cooperation between the regional level and the state will increase, as will the opportunities for cooperation between the new large regions that are being created. Without prejudice to the proposals of the inquiry, I can say that it is clear that in the future we will still have to agree between the regions on, for example, buying and selling highly specialised care. It is clear that in the future we will also need to agree on how best to ensure that medical education and other health care courses have the best possible conditions. We have a situation today where a bottleneck is to find internships and similar in healthcare for the courses that exist. I see that the chances of finding these places will be increased as soon as possible by fewer but larger regions, which can also cooperate more closely with each other. Some of the parts that Lotta Olsson sees as threats to in this case Örebro University Hospital specifically and perhaps to medical education in general I see as opportunities to be able to have medical education throughout the country and make sure that the students can get through their education as quickly as possible. Very exciting things are happening in this area. Among other things, we are currently looking at how medical education could change. And it is clear that a change in medical training that places higher demands on continuous traineeships throughout the training period will also require very close cooperation between health care on the one hand and universities on the other.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-314	Mr President, I would like to This is exactly what it is all about – how we can protect that we get a modern university that can work in a modern way and have a new thinking. This is where Örebro University as one of the young universities has been a good forerunner. We see that the young universities are good at this. Then it's very strange if you threaten something that actually works because you want it to work everywhere. On the contrary, we should see that this is something that works and must therefore be protected. How do we protect what actually works, instead of painting with large strokes of brush without looking at it? What you break if you do not protect the functioning universities can take many years to build up. It is fast to make a change, but it takes a very long time to deal with things that go wrong. I do not understand why it is not taken into account that the Örebro region, together with Värmland, already has a good exchange in terms of education and internships. That is what you want to break, and you want us to see this as an improvement. On the contrary, we have something today that we want to protect. If you now change it and do it in a completely different way, we cannot see it as a change for the better. Surely regionalisation should lead to something that is better and not something that does not work? It's the good forces we have to protect.
i-b484195b5b3fcca0-318	Mr President, I would like to I think that I and Lotta Olsson can fully agree on this point: the regional classification should lead to substantial improvements, not least for health care. Lotta Olsson also said in a previous post that drawing the map is not enough. That is precisely the point. Of course, we need to take into account all aspects of a new regionalisation. However, I would like to point out once again that the proposal referred to by Lotta Olsson is the draft of the Division Committee, which is supposed to be a basis for discussion. The final proposal will come on June the last. In the meantime, I think it is good to have a debate and a discussion on the future prospects of regionalisation, but I cannot comment on a proposal which is, so far, just a basis for discussion. Thank you for a good debate!
