i-9rGQMECp3vFPx9CAM86peG	Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of Amendments Nos 2 and 3 to paragraph 2 of our reservation 1 and of Amendment No 1 to paragraph 4 of reservation 4. This report contains a new law on the processing of personal data in activities carried out by the Finnish Immigration Service, the Swedish Police Authority and the foreign authorities under foreign and citizenship law. The purpose of the Act is to provide previously mentioned authorities with the possibility to process personal data in an efficient and effective way while protecting people against violations of their personal integrity during such processing. This is a type of highly technical and difficult-to-assess legislation in which, in fact, only public authorities can fully assess and assess the effectiveness of the legislation. It is therefore particularly important to listen to the consultation bodies. The police authorities had some comments in their reply. Among other things, if relevant information is generated, the Police Authority wants permission to inform the law enforcement part of its own authority, which the bill does not allow, and that the Police Authority can also be exempted from the prohibition of using criminal offences as search terms. We Moderates share the Political Authority's assessments in these two areas and consider it important to give the police as good tools as possible to prevent and detect crimes and to prosecute offenders. At the moment, it is particularly important in view of the strong migratory pressure that we have had and which will also be significant in the foreseeable future. Before the introduction of border control, a great many people came into our country without us actually knowing who they were. Therefore, it is particularly important that we give the police the opportunity to have good tools at internal foreign control. As I mentioned at the outset, this type of legislation is difficult to assess in all respects at the time of the decision. Therefore, we Moderates believe that Parliament's decisions also need to include a decision on an early evaluation. As a final comment, it is a little surprising that the government is not listening, above all, to the views of the Political Authority when the Minister for Home Affairs has said that some 80 000 people need to be expelled.
i-LcUFncJXSLQnzRBP3UGDbB	Mr President, I would like to We are now dealing with the Social Security Committee's SfU10 report on the Alien Data Act. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the SD and M services under paragraphs 1 and 4. Especially in the exceptional situation that Sweden is currently in, it is important to give the Police Authority the tools they need to be able to carry out their work in a good, efficient and efficient way. The Alien Data Act specifies the purposes for which processing of personal data may occur, and these purposes are divided into primary and secondary purposes. The secondary purposes govern the extent to which personal data collected by the authority for a primary purpose may be processed to be disclosed to persons or authorities for the purpose of meeting their needs. We believe that the Riksdag should meet with the Police Authority, which in its referral was asking for another secondary purpose. The Authority should be allowed to provide data processed for the primary activity for use within the law enforcement part of the Authority. This also seems to be something that the government can imagine, which is why we believe that the government should urgently review the possibility of introducing such a secondary purpose. Essentially, the Government's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction. However, we believe that more can be done to improve police capabilities, but we also recognise the importance of ensuring that, after the proposals have become a reality, an evaluation is carried out as soon as possible. In this way, possible enforcement problems can be easily addressed. Without evaluation, it is difficult to see the consequences of the new regulatory framework, but this can be extremely important. Close follow-up is therefore, in our opinion, a must. Mr President, I would like to We believe that the Police Authority should have good conditions for carrying out its work effectively. Rather, it is strange if, as some forces sometimes suggest, an important authority such as this is to be suspected as if it were deliberately using its data in a wrong way. Rather, a review should be carried out to allow the Police Authority, with an additional secondary purpose, to provide data processed according to the primary purposes of law enforcement activities. Similarly, the possibility of allowing derogations from the principled prohibition on the use by the Police Authority of data on offences as search terms should be reviewed.
i-278af95acb98fc01-16	Mr President, I would like to When we are going to legislate on the processing of personal data, it is important not only to look at what is technically possible and necessary for different types of activities but also to consider how the proposal affects the protection of personal privacy. This is particularly true when situations (d) are sensitive personal data are common. The aim is to reduce the risk of inappropriate dissemination of personal data or other sensitive information. That is precisely the balance we are discussing here today. The Left Party believes that all people have the right to a broad private sf is protected on practical and principled grounds. The protection of personal integrity is a cornerstone of a free and democratic society. The surreptitious development towards a control society is a reality and must be reversed. For us, the protection of personal privacy must always be balanced against the benefits and includes all of us. We are opposed to slippages which mean that some of us are not covered by such protection in the same way as others. In accordance with fundamental data protection principles, personal data may only be collected for specific and legitimate purposes. This means that the data must not be used in a way that is incompatible with it. Target regulation is at the heart of the protection of privacy. It acts as the framework to ensure that a personal data is only used for what it is intended for. Both the Swedish Bar Association and the Swedish Data Protection Authority criticise the fact that the purpose of the investigation's proposal is too broad. It is questionable whether these provisions actually meet the requirements of fundamental data protection principles. The Left Party believes that the boundaries of the purpose rules must be precise in order to avoid any demarcation problems and reduce the risk of violations of personal integrity. In the bill, the government has chosen to replace what is a necessity requirement with a requirement regarding personal data. Since the purpose provisions in the investigation's proposal were already broad, the change would mean that they risk being further developed. The study does not contain any analysis or balance of the consequences of the requirement. Nor does the bill provide sufficient basis for deciding what this will really mean when it comes to privacy. The Left Party therefore believes, as the investigation suggests and as the majority of the consultation bodies believe, that the processing of personal data should be subject to a requirement in these rules. The Left Party is generally critical of allowing direct access between different authorities, especially with regard to this sensitive personal data. There is a risk that far too many people will have access to this personal data without sufficient reason. Often there are less privacy-sensitive ways of sharing information between authorities without different officials having direct access to each other's personal data. Since the proposal for a Foreigner Data Act departs from the principle of explicitly specifying the categories of data that may be processed in the Finnish Immigration Service's operational register, the possibilities for the Finnish Immigration Service to process completely different categories of personal data are likely to increase. We therefore believe that the government should come back with a proposal that means that the Swedish Security Service's and the Police Authority's direct access to the Migration Agency's data does not include more information than is currently contained in the Migration Agency's business register. The Left Party also believes, like the Bar Association, that the argument and justification contained in the bill about the need to introduce an explicit right for the Migration Agency to have access to the Police Authority's fingerprint and description registers is not convincing. There is a lack of sufficient evidence to show that the Migration Agency's beatings in the Politiskaförsähallitus fingerprint register have contributed to the work of the work to establish the identity of asylum seekers in such a way that actually outweighs the breach of privacy that it may entail. In the few cases where the Migration Agency's access to the register could strengthen asylum seekers' ability to prove their reasons for asylum or identity, the Migration Agency may request the relevant information from the Police Authority. Even the fact that the Migration Agency becomes aware at all that an individual is included in the register of the Political Authority may be sensitive to the individual. And since the Government's proposal departs from the principle of explicitly indicating what personal data the Migration Agency may process in its operational register, the likelihood of the Migration Agency being allowed to process other data than today is increased. The Left Party therefore believes that the government should produce a proposal that means that the Security Service and the Police Authority do not have direct access to more information than is currently available. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal for a regulation on third-country transfers means that the authorities will be able to disclose more personal data to third countries than they do today. Unfortunately, we know that there have already been cases in which the home Member State has been informed of a person's information on asylum applications in the event of forced expulsions. It is quite clear that the disclosure of such information risks putting the individual at risk and violating the privacy of the individual – in fact, this also applies to the family. Therefore, the rules should be followed up and evaluated very carefully. Of course, I support all the reservations of the Left Party, but I only ask for the approval of reservation No 3.
i-S1CSaDUtsgvfC7HB8vb9XR	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. The Alien Data Act is a new law on the processing of personal data in the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service, the Swedish Police Authority and the foreign authorities in accordance with foreign and citizenship law. Activities include, for example, the entry and exit of foreigners from Sweden, their stay and work, the reception of asylum seekers and other foreigners, and Swedish citizenship. Personal data is any information that can be directly or indirectly attributed to a natural person who is alive. Processing refers to any action or series of actions taken in relation to personal data, such as collection, storage, processing, use, transmission, dissemination and a few more words in a list. This Act applies only if the processing of personal data is wholly or partly automated or if the personal data is part of a structured collection of personal data. Thus, manual processing of personal data falls completely outside the scope of the law, unless it is part of such a structured collection. The law is also technology neutral. In some parts of the Act, the provisions of the Personal Data Act apply, and in some parts this Act takes over. It may be worth mentioning that this type of data law already exists in a number of other domains, such as the Police Data Act. As with all laws governing personal data management, there is a balance between integrity and the ability of the operations to carry out their work. For example, this balance takes the form of restrictions on the handling of sensitive personal data – for example, ethnic origin, political opinions and data related to health and sexual life – and also how to use search terms for sensitive personal data. Issues related to the processing of personal data in this law have previously been regulated in a regulation. As before, it is proposed that a number of authorities have direct access to the Finnish Immigration Service's personal data: the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Security Service, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the Swedish Pension Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency. However, as clearly stated in Section 16, in the case of the authorities covered by the Aliens Data Act, this must be the case: Access to personal data is limited to what each official needs in order to carry out his/her duties. A clarification in this law is an explicit right for the Migration Agency to consult the Politiska ombudsman's fingerprint and description register for comparison, which is already happening today. New is the possibility to check the identity of a person via photography comparison. This is something that both the Migration Agency and the Government believe could streamline the work and also shorten the asylum process in some cases. Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the government strives to create technology-neutral and flexible legislation while safeguarding personal integrity. These starting points are best met by choosing a more general regulation of the processing of personal data, while it is clear in several places in the law and in the bill that the processing arrangements are more closely regulated by a regulation or by administrative regulations. In drafting the law, an acceptable balance must be struck between society's legitimate demands that activities under foreign and citizenship law can be conducted in an effective and orderly manner and the protection of personal integrity. The provisions of the Alien Data Act aim to balance these two interests.
i-TCCA85XC8n8uhghdqpVux6	Mr President, I would like to We are therefore debating the Social Security Committee's report 10 on a Foreign Data Act. The need for new legislation is consistent with the rewording of Chapter 2. Section 6 of the Government Act entered into force in 2011. This provision means that individuals are protected against actions of the general public involving significant breaches of privacy if it is done without consent and involves monitoring or mapping the individual's personal circumstances. According to the Government, the new wording of the provision implies that the provision of Chapter 2. Section 20 provides that measures involving significant breaches of privacy must be regulated by law. The Government's proposal introduces a new law on the processing of personal data in the activities of the Finnish Immigration Service, the Swedish Police Authority and the foreign authorities in accordance with the Foreigner and Citizenship Act: the Alien Data Act. There is therefore a need for new regulation, and it is positive that the government is striving to create technology-neutral and flexible legislation while safeguarding personal integrity. These starting points are best met by choosing a more general regulation of the processing of personal data in which the basic provisions aimed at protecting the data subject against breaches of privacy in the processing of personal data are laid down by law, while the processing arrangements are further regulated by regulation or by authority. It has therefore been important to strike a balance between the need for authorities to process personal data effectively and effectively and the protection of privacy. It is of great importance, not least for reasons of privacy protection, that the closer scope of direct access is regulated as precisely as possible. Like the Committee on Justice, we share the view that it can be both difficult and impractical to specify which data should be processed. The Government therefore considers that the detailed rules on the purpose for which direct access is to be granted should be regulated by regulation and not by law. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-278af95acb98fc01-38	Mr President, I would like to As we heard earlier in the debate, today's debate is about the Foreign Data Act. To explain it in short terms is virtually impossible. The purpose of the Alien Data Act is to give the Migration Agency, the olisen and the foreign authorities the conditions for processing personal data in a simple and efficient way. At the same time, it is important that this is done in such a way that the personal integrity of the individual is not violated. For us liberals, it is particularly important that the integrity of the individual is weighed against the need for information by the authorities. The authorities must have a tool that is effective and flexible to work with. At the same time, however, the individual's sensitive personal data must only be processed if absolutely necessary. We believe that a balance has been struck between these two interests and are therefore in favour of the legislative proposal. In its referral, the Police Authority has called for an opportunity to use this information in law enforcement activities. The government has said that they intend to come back on this issue. We welcome the fact that this is being thoroughly investigated and that the integrity of the individual is being reviewed again before the legislative proposal comes. We also assume that there will be a follow-up of the law, as is customary, so that any errors can be corrected. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-278af95acb98fc01-44	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the issue of glasses for children and young people. I was very pleased when the government put forward this proposal, because it is a proposal that I have been making since I entered the Parliament in 2010. Certainly I want it to be completely free of charge, but this is well to see as a step in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for reservation 2 that foreigners who are staying in Sweden without the necessary permits should not be covered by the proposed proposal.
i-278af95acb98fc01-46	I myself have a daughter who, at the age of ten, needed glasses. By the time she was 11, we had changed glasses three times already and had an extra pair. That's four pairs. Now I certainly had the opportunity to pay for this and had that kind of income. But not everyone actually does. Of course, you want to bet on your children, but not all parents can afford to do so. That is why we believe that the proposal on spectacle allowances is very good, and we welcome this effort on children and young people. Glasses are important for children and often also a prerequisite for them to be able to participate in leisure activities and school work on equal terms. Children grow and develop, and then they also have to change their glasses at regular intervals. It is unreasonable for children who grow up in families with scarce conditions to have to give up glasses because the parents cannot afford it. We believe that children, regardless of their parents' finances, should be able to live and grow up under good conditions. We believe that the possibility of glasses for all children of school age should be equal, or at least as similar, across the country. Of course, we assume that the county councils that today have a higher remuneration than the government is now proposing do not lower their level of ambition. We Swedish democrats, on the other hand, want to invest more than the government. The Government invests SEK 800 per child per year in its budget. The Swedish Democrats invest 1,200 SEK per child and year up to the age of 19, because glasses are usually more expensive than 800 SEK per year. Mr President, I would like to As I said, we are in favour of this investment in children and young people and see it as a step in the right direction. That is why we support the government proposal, but we have reservations about that part of the bill that I raised. We request that the Riksdag announce to the Government that those who under the Act on Health Care to certain foreigners who are staying in Sweden without the necessary permits should not be covered by the proposed Act. When the law on health care for certain foreigners who are staying in Sweden without the necessary permits came into force, we demanded that the bill be rejected in its entirety. We justified this because Sweden has the most generous asylum and migration rules in the developed world, and if you have refugee status you are not denied a residence permit. Therefore, we believe that there are no objective reasons why people keep hidden or stay in Sweden without permission. In order for Sweden to be able to maintain regulated immigration, we believe that those who have received expulsion decisions or are only in the country without authorisation should leave the country. An important principle for us is that no one should be denied emergency or immediate care in Sweden due to a lack of ability to pay. In this case, however, we do not believe that eyeglass benefits are to be regarded as emergency care, and we therefore believe that they should not be covered by the law either. Of course, we believe that law and order should apply. Refusal from expulsion decisions is a criminal act and should also be classified as such. Mr President, I would like to We urge that the Riksdag announce to the Government that it should return to the Riksdag with a new proposal, in which people who are staying in Sweden without the necessary permits should not be included in the law on glasses for children and young people. We believe that this is an important reform and that it is important that it is carried out with the best interests of the children in the first place. Therefore, we choose not to demand rejection of the bill, despite our objection and reservation regarding persons who reside in Sweden without permission. Once again, I call for reservation 2.
i-278af95acb98fc01-57	Mr President, I would like to This debate is partly a repetition of the autumn budget debate for the Committee on Social Affairs, when the Government's budget was approved by the Riksdag. This meant, among other things, that glasses for children between the ages of 8 and 19 would be paid by the state. In the case of children between 0 and 7 years of age, there is an obligation for county councils to provide glasses freely. I pointed out at the time that the Center Party's budget was a major investment in more jobs in Sweden through a number of initiatives. As more people get into work, tax revenues for municipalities, county councils and the state increase while the costs of exclusion are reduced. Therefore, the Center Party's budget was also a very offensive one that would have created many tens of thousands of jobs, thereby also providing greater tax revenues and more resources for health care. The government with the support party makes a large number of the targeted special state grants that you want to introduce to everything possible, such as glasses and medicines. In that branch you are – admittedly – quite unbeatable. Taxes are being increased that reduce the driving forces of jobs and entrepreneurship and then distribute them free of charge in various benefits. But free drugs and free glasses go to all families regardless of income, even the most wealthy, and are something free of charge often increases the use. Today we are discussing the Government's proposal to introduce an obligation for county councils to provide grants for the cost of glasses for children and young people between 8 and 19 years of age. The centre party's starting point is that all county councils should provide grants for glasses for children because glasses for children are considered primarily as aids. Those who do not benefit from general support in their county council or region today and who, because of their financial conditions, cannot afford to pay for glasses themselves can receive financial assistance for this. A more effective way of increasing the income of economically vulnerable families can be, for example, an increase in housing allowance or an increase in social security standards. There are also other objections to the bill that are worth highlighting, and they are in our reservations. They are also presented by some of the consultation bodies, for example, that differences may arise between the conditions for glasses for children up to 7 years of age and the conditions for glasses for children between 8 and 19 years of age. I support all of the Center Party's reservations, but I am content for time winning by pressing secondary cases to reservations 1 and 3.
i-278af95acb98fc01-63	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 1 and 7. To sit in a classroom and not see what's on the board, to suddenly get a ball in the head of the sport without having any idea where it came from or to have a headache – so of course no children should have to have it. Visual defects are often hereditary, and it is not uncommon for everyone in a family to wear glasses or, for that matter, lenses. For some families where the glasses need to be changed often – it can be because the visual error gets worse, because of a fun football match in the schoolyard or because pure thought and forgetfulness is the villain – it sometimes becomes expensive. Liberals think there should be national guidelines for support for glasses for children. The place of residence and the wallet should not determine whether a child should be able to get glasses or not. County Councils and regions should offer grants for children's glasses, and we work for that – in county councils and regions. If you are a Member of Parliament and want to conduct county policy, you probably ran for office in the wrong elections in 2014. We Liberals are discussing which differences between county councils or regions are reasonable. Which side of a county border you live on should not mean that you get different good care or different access to assistive devices. We are inclined that the state should probably govern more and that it is time to make a proper analysis of the division of responsibilities between the state and county councils. However, what the government and its support parties are doing is something quite different. In fact, there does not seem to be any analysis at all behind what should be regulated nationally and what county councils should do themselves. The proposal we are discussing today may be the clearest example. We are therefore going to regulate in law that children aged 8 to 19 should receive benefits for glasses, but that when it comes to younger people, the county councils can do much as they want, just like with all other aids. Isn't that a little tricky? At least that's what the Law Council thinks, even if it has a different language than me. It is said that a very precise rule for a particular situation is also difficult to reconcile with the thought of falling. ..................................................... If you are now going to make a national system, which we certainly do not reject completely, you have to think a little bit about what such a system should look like. The government also has an excellent context to do that thought work in. A newly appointed investigator will review fees and regulations for assistive devices and think about national regulation and leadership. Glasses are an aid, and now we are dealing with fees and regulations for them. Then it is perfectly appropriate for the investigator to have a look at this as well. What the investigator then should also consider is whether it is really so useful to have a contribution of a few hundred cents for all children who need glasses. Here my own party has a homework to do, and I thank you for the inspiration! A pair of standard glasses for children costs just under a thousand. Several of the large optic chains have different offers, such as paying only for the visual examination, paying only a part or getting two pairs of glasses at the price of one. It's a expense that most families can handle. Those who really don't can get other types of support. At the same time, there are children who need glasses that cost thousands. Even the eyes grow in children who grow, and vision can change extremely quickly. A pair of glasses may need to be changed several times a year. It stings in the wallet even for parents with decent income, and then that 800 crowns is a rather poor comfort. Perhaps it would be better to have high-cost protection? Instead of a little money for many who do not need, perhaps you should give more to a little fewer — to those who really need it? I also read in several places that there are now free glasses for children. That's a little crazy, because it's actually not true. It's not about free glasses, it's about a contribution. What the most vulnerable families need most is a policy for more jobs, with lower labour market thresholds and good conditions for entrepreneurship. There's a major homework to do! To improve the conditions for those who are still excluded, for example, the housing allowance, the national standard for subsistence support, the multi-child allowance and maintenance allowance are more accurate support than a spectacle allowance that is also paid to multi-billionaires and MPs. Moreover, leisure money was also such support, but you have already removed it. Liberals conclude that there is a need for a broad and open-ended debate on nationalisation of healthcare that can help ensure the quality and equivalence of healthcare across the country. The answer is not obvious. It may be that today's division of responsibilities between state, county councils and municipalities is essentially as it should be but that some areas need stronger government governance. Of course, no child, no matter what parents they have or where their parents come from, should have to go without the glasses they need. However, this is a misdirected venture.
i-BnHtW2F5F6VWrwLSKhLMu3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. This report proposes that the Riksdag adopt the bill 2015/ 16:71, which obliges county councils to provide grants for the cost of glasses and contact lenses for children and young people aged between 8 and 19 years. The legislative proposal is due to enter into force on 1 March. Politics makes a difference. The Swedish government is setting out a new path. Since before, we have introduced free medicines for children and young people. We have increased the resources for health care. We've spent billions of dollars on staffing in care for the elderly. We have greatly strengthened social services. Politics makes a difference. Sweden is getting a new road. Instead of tax cuts, we have a completely different distribution policy. As representative of the Social Democrats, I am proud to inform the House that today we are debating another reform, an initiative that will give our children and young people the opportunity to see. Already in the 2015 spring bill, the government announced the provision of SEK 120 million per year for support for visual aids. It shall be provided as a contribution to boys and girls, regardless of their background or functional capacity, to enable them to participate on an equal footing in school and in their free time. It should also provide more equal access to glasses, which gives children in financial vulnerability better opportunities and reduces exclusion. It is true that some debaters have already said that the county councils today provide grants for standard goggles for children aged 0-7 years with the support of the Health Care Act. But even within that range, Mr President, one can see a variation in the size and shape of the grant. If you look at the older children and young people covered by this proposal, those between the ages of 8 and 19, you can see huge variation between county councils in Sweden. That is why the government proposes that we target support for children and young people between the ages of 8 and 19. The government assumes that the support for children under the age of 7 will continue to be provided, as is the case today. As I said, the target group includes not only our own citizens, but also children in refugee families, unaccompanied refugee children and children who, for some other reason, reside in the country without permission. We choose to see the needs of all children. A child's vision develops rapidly. From birth to about 4 years of age, most have developed a visual acuity almost like an adult. At the age of 10, 11 or 12 – there are of course individual variations – you have basically fully developed vision. It is therefore extremely important to get the right help at the right time. Mr President, I would like to In 2014, there were about 1.3 million children and young people aged 8 to 19 years in Sweden. The National Board of Health and Welfare, based on the report Landstingen's support for glasses for children, assumes that approximately 12 – 13 per cent of children aged 8 – 16 years are in need of visual aids. Assuming that the need is similar between the ages of 17 and 19, this would mean that some 160 000 children and young people in the country are affected. A few simple glasses including glass and bows to the target group can cost around 500 SEK onor. But as soon as you need glasses or contact lenses that are specially designed, the price rises to between $1,000 and $1,000. According to the proposal, the Government may prescribe the amount and conditions of the aid and the repayment obligation. The reform will make the grant provision more even and clearer for the individual, regardless of the county council. In the Decree, the Government intends that the contribution to glasses or contact lenses should amount to a certain amount per person. Today, there are no uniform rules within county councils for what is included when aid is given. We believe that wise county council politicians can, to a large extent, handle large parts of the reform themselves and get a good result. However, it is proposed that the National Board of Health and Welfare be given the task of monitoring and evaluating the reform. The Government has also issued comitology directives for an investigation into tools, technologies and methods of participation and self-determination. A specific investigator shall review the availability and use of facilities and make proposals with a view to increasing equivalence and reducing differences in fees and regulatory frameworks. Of course we will follow these measures. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the committee's proposal and reject the motion and the reservation.
i-278af95acb98fc01-87	Mr President, I would like to One of the cornerstones of our common welfare is that as best as possible give all children equal opportunities in life. This means a schooling that gives each child plenty of knowledge to participate in society and create their own livelihood. This means care and preparedness for all the diseases that may suddenly and unexpectedly appear. It also means the right to a safe upbringing. These efforts mean that even if children are born with different conditions, we do what we can to still give all children a good chance in life, a good upbringing and opportunities to become what they want and reach their dreams. Visual defects are one of the most common disabilities in children, so common that we sometimes forget that it is a disability. The National Board of Health and Welfare assumes that 12 – 13 percent of children aged 8 – 16 years are in need of glasses. That's about one in eight kids. Not being able to see properly is not just an obstacle to learning to read, write and count. It also prevents participation in leisure activities and makes life difficult in everyday life. A simple thing like crossing a road safely will be a big challenge if you can't see where you're going. It is extremely important that all children in need of glasses also receive it. But it is not always a matter of course. Different families have different economic conditions, and as we have heard in previous speeches, glasses are an expensive investment. The Landstingen is today responsible for providing support for glasses. Nevertheless, there are very different situations in different county councils, and there are differences between county councils as to which children are entitled to the support and to what extent they receive the support. Therefore, we believe that there is still reason to equalise the differences between county councils and thus improve the equivalence of children with visual defects. It is also in line with the election promises we made for the 2014 Parliamentary elections. However, we have chosen to add a specific opinion. Last year, about 160 000 asylum seekers came to Sweden. That's about twice as many as the year before. 35 000 are unaccompanied children. We have proposed a series of measures to enable our society to manage to take care of the people who have come to Sweden. However, we believe that, in addition to this, there needs to be a discussion about which welfare services are to benefit the people who are only staying here temporarily. It is not an obvious starting point that people who do not live permanently in Sweden and have not worked here should have the same access to welfare services as those who have Swedish citizenship or permanent residence permits or have worked together qualifications to enter Swedish welfare systems. This time we have chosen not to reserve ourselves, but we believe that there is reason to closely follow developments in the matter and reserve the right to return to the larger discussion about what should be included in the Swedish social contract and what should not.
i-278af95acb98fc01-96	Mr President, I would like to Politicians should talk much more often about the whole. Politicians should say much more often that different policies are interrelated and interdependent, that reform in one area can have an impact on completely different areas of society. Politicians should argue more often on the basis of what they want with society than with the facts from the very drain pipe where the subject belongs. From that perspective, I was going to argue today. The red-green feminist government has a very well-thought-out job policy. We are not proposing a reduction in wages at a time when growth is more than ever dependent on strong end-consumers. It would be counterproductive from a job policy perspective. The feminist government knows that it is only through increased welfare that we create stable societies. Nor do we give priority to reducing taxes at a time when, apart from conscious consumers, the public sector is the only safe, stable and strong domestic customer who can place demands on suppliers to be at the forefront of development. The red-green feminist government is investing in the future. We do so in many different forms: more research, increased housing and the development of all the necessary infrastructure for a modern, functioning society. We are investing in small and medium-sized enterprises, but above all we are investing in young people. We know that without ever-new, well-educated generations our community will not be able to continue to develop. We are increasingly reading in Sweden, not only fiction but also for knowledge acquisition. More and more in each new young generation are expected to cope with more and more years of demanding education. Today, most of the study material that our students and students are going to acquire is available online, and more and more students are studying remotely. It makes demands. Starting school with a blurred picture of the letters in the book and unclear outline of what the teacher draws and writes on the board is not a good start. We have heard many people point that out. We have realised this for a long time, and that is why it is fortunate that we have such a well-developed child health care system. Visual defects are often detected early, and the county councils are therefore already making contributions to glasses for children between the ages of zero and seven years. It wasn't like that before. My own visual error was discovered only at the age of 19. As children grow, visual defects can change quite quickly, as has been pointed out. The glasses may therefore need to be replaced at intervals of just a few years or more often to provide adequate support. The fact that glasses are an expensive story has been pointed out so far by all the debaters, and I know that from my own experience. We also know that the gaps in society are growing. This was the case even before the alliance government took office in 2006, so neither can the Social Democrats beat their chests and say that they have succeeded well in this area, either before or now. But during the time of the alliance government, the rate of divisions in society grew. Unfortunately, more and more people still find it more and more difficult to cope with what is needed. There is therefore a risk that large investments such as glasses will not happen and that many young people from families with small resources will find it difficult to follow school work. It is not easy to understand how opposition parties can claim to put employment at the top of the political agenda when they object to support perhaps the most basic tool for the future workforce: a vision that allows you to follow an education. It is a lack of a holistic approach. Most county councils unfortunately do not support glasses for children over the age of seven, which means that the conditions for school children are different in different parts of the country. We can't have that. Therefore, a government and a parliament should take an initiative. Already in the budget adopted last autumn by Parliament for 2016 funds were allocated for this reform, so the concern about displacement effects described in some motions is, I think, quite unjustified. The demand for further investigations and, as it says in a motion, a possible investigation of nationalisation of health care only means a long bench. It is clear that proposals and decisions can be better if we investigate more and wait. However, this would probably mean that many generations of schoolchildren will in the future have less opportunities for school work and will go out with worse results than if we were to do what the government is proposing today. The opposition parties hope that the county councils will resolve this without state interference, I see most as a pretext to come up with a motive to oppose the government's proposal. It can hardly be so bad that the alliance parties unspokenly and indirectly oppose the possibilities for those from the bottom of society to get up to the top, perhaps here to Parliament. If you want to be malevolent, the resistance to state support, even if it is not the best form, to glasses for those aged 8 to 19, can be interpreted as an unwillingness to enable the class trip in our country. I do not, of course, believe that there is such a conscious idea from the opposition parties because I know that most people who engage politically, regardless of which party they belong to, want everyone to have the opportunity to develop their full potential. That is how we create more employment and a good society. A well-thought-out policy for more people in work requires the involvement of all policy areas. That is why it is so important that the state takes a clear initiative for all children's and young people's right to a good start in life with good visual acuity. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-278af95acb98fc01-113	Mr President, I would like to I was going to talk a little about reform policy, because that is exactly what this is all about. From 2016, we set aside SEK 120 million per year for children and young people aged 8 to 19 years to receive grants for glasses in the same way that those who are zero to seven years receive through the county councils. It is a general welfare reform. Some in this hall think it's a better idea that the children who live in financially vulnerable families should instead knock on the door of social services, a little with their hat in hand. One in six Swedish children's families lives at an economic level below the EU poverty threshold. Without child benefit and child support, one in four families would be poor. I'm asking you to think about it. There is great variation between county councils that gives this type of contribution to glasses. Perhaps you should have taken hold of that eight years when you ruled the country and saw that the variations between county councils increased. It'll be unjust. In view of the fact that all county councils are already providing benefits for children from zero to seven years of age, we propose this. We think it is a good reform. We assume that the allowance for children between zero and seven years will continue to be granted by the county councils. The target group means that families seeking asylum, unaccompanied refugee children and children residing in Sweden without the necessary permission may also take part in this reform. We apply the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In this discussion I have heard that the Moderates are approaching the Swedish Democrats in their view of welfare. Some should have, some should not have. I would like to point that out. With this reform there will be less tombola for children and families and more equal in Sweden. The National Board of Health and Welfare will be tasked with following the reform. We think that's a good thing. We believe that all reforms launched should be followed and evaluated. If you look at which of the previous government's launched reforms have been evaluated, you unfortunately do not see many things you can do. Politicians on the right have, I think, allowed the solidarity-based general family policy to lapse. We did not see so many of these kinds of reforms in the eight years that the bourgeois parties ruled. The gap between the richest and poorest households has increased sharply. Then we're not just talking about the last eight years. We're talking about the last 20 years. If you look at SCB's figures on disposable income, i.e. income after tax, you can see that the richest tenth of the population has seen their income increase by as much as 63% since 1991, while the poorest 10%'s income has increased by 1.7%. Then you can understand the difference and who needs reforms. It's not the richest. The increased gaps in society have hit children in Sweden extremely hard. We can see this in many areas. Like the Green Party said, politics is connected. This is not a mega-reform. Even so, it sticks in the eyes of some of the bourgeois politicians. I would like to remind you once again that 18% of all Swedes under the age of 19 lived in relative poverty in 2013. That's a hard number. The share has increased by 5 percentage points since 2006. This is the highest level measured by SCB. Think about it! It is a new record of child poverty, because of the unjust policies of the previous government. That is why we need to have more general reforms. More reforms are needed to reduce the gaps, and we must work on them in the long term. That is precisely why it is good that even children of parents with poor economics can feel somewhat upgraded by the budget that the Left Party has been involved in composing. For example, children and young people aged 8 to 19 should receive benefits for glasses similar to children aged 0 to 7 years. It should be borne in mind that, from the point of view of the whole committee, there are insane right-wing cuts on the basis of the budget. I would like to remind you that the Moderates want about 4 billion less for welfare, the Liberals 2.4 billion less and the KD in round throws 4 billion less. The Center Party leads the list of 6.1 billion less to welfare. That's what it looks like. The Left wants to see welfare built up and developed. We would have liked to see greater efforts and a completely different distribution policy, because that is exactly what we need. I have to ask you a basic question. For eight years you had government power in the bourgeois parties. You saw the county councils drifting apart. It's about where you live if you're going to get different types of grants and so on. Why did you do so little? That is a question I would like to ask you. I call for all motions to be rejected and for the proposal to be supported.
i-278af95acb98fc01-129	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I only approve of the first one. For the Christian Democrats, it is of course important that all children can learn to read and write and have the opportunity to get glasses if they have visual impairment. For this reason, the Christian Democrats have worked to ensure that the political level in our country that is responsible for health care and for assistive devices, namely county councils and regions, will ensure that support is provided locally for children who need glasses when parents cannot afford it. We have, not least during our time in the government when Maria Larsson was responsible for child issues, worked to reduce child poverty and the risk of children not getting what they need. Glasses are, of course, such a basic need. It is important that there is support for families who have no other way of making their everyday economy go together. Above all, however, it is important that families with children have the opportunity to make their own living. Getting parents a job is the most important thing for children to get what they need financially. We have therefore made sure to increase the general support in the form of the child benefit. We have ensured that the families who live in the greatest financial vulnerability for a long time will have the opportunity to keep the support a little longer so that they get on the right foot and have their own livelihood. The bill says that county councils should be obliged to provide glasses for the slightly older children. We object to the fact that it is only the older children, because we see a risk that this will mean that, if it becomes mandatory for certain groups of children, the county councils will remove the eyeglass support for the younger children. It is a bias in legislation that is not due to any principles but only because it is not believed that the county councils will do so. So you make a law that applies to the older children and then hope for the best for the younger ones. There will be a bias in the legislation. There is no argument for legislation; it is just a budgetary solution. Budgetary technology may need to be used at times, but it is hardly a good principle when protecting the most vulnerable. The Christian Democrats will continue to work for the county councils to provide glasses for the children who need it. It is an aid, but it should be dealt with as such. The responsibility for this should lie with the county councils, according to our legislation and the principles that I believe we all support.
i-278af95acb98fc01-137	Mr President, I would like to I have to ask you something, Emma Henriksson. You had the opportunity to do something when you saw that the county councils' willingness to pay out grants is very different in Sweden. It slides apart in area by area when you look at what county councils do and do not do. My first question to you is: What did you do to minimize the big differences? My second question is: SCB's figures show that 385 000 children, i.e. 18% of all Swedes under the age of 19, lived in relative poverty in 2013– how do you think you should handle it? Do you not need more general welfare reforms to lift these groups, or how do you think we should handle it? Should we have specific entrances for certain children, for example to apply for benefits through social services? How do you think we should build up and secure children's opportunities to travel in this country?
i-278af95acb98fc01-140	Mr President, I would like to I apologise in advance for going a little beyond the subject of today's debate, which is spectacle allowances for children. Karin Rågsjö's questions were about child poverty and above all relative poverty. It's a tricky concept. We have made sure that the poorest have become a little less poor. The most deprived have been better off, the second most deprived have also been better off, as have the second most deprived. The conditions for the economically vulnerable in our country improved under the alliance government. But we also made sure that those who work and work hard and get the highest income have kept more. This means that more people can end up in the group that lives in relative poverty. They've got more money in their wallet. More can afford to play football, more can afford to go and watch floorball matches and more can afford to buy some better food. Relatively, there have been more people, but no one has gotten worse. Relative poverty is about how much I have in relation to you, not how much I have to do. When Save the Children do their child poverty compilation, they use a little different measures. Some of these measures are such that if you receive long-term support, then you are poor. When we do so that those who have long-term support have to keep that support a little longer, so that they have an incentive to work – that is, more money in their wallets for a longer period of time and have received more support – then it goes through as a figure that there have become more poor. But it's about more people being given more money to manage and above all better opportunities to become self-sufficient in the long term. When we look at concepts and definitions, it is important to see what is the big challenge. The biggest challenge is for more people to fend for themselves, and that led our policy to – unlike the Left Party.
i-278af95acb98fc01-146	Mr President, I would like to I come back to my first question about county councils, to which I would like an answer, and then I go back to child poverty. If you look at various reports and SCB's figures, you can see that it is very significant that relative child poverty increased by 5% during your government period. If you look at different levels, different health conditions and so on, you see that you have not invested in the most deprived people, if you can put it that way, in those who are socio-economically vulnerable. You have invested in a completely different group. Politics goes hand in hand. That is why we want to reform and bring in more welfare reforms. It's extremely important. We do not want to reduce taxes more for the absolutely richest, nor do we want to keep the huge interest subsidies. It's all connected. We want to invest in a more equal society, because we believe that equality builds Sweden together. A country that is more equal is much better. As the differences increase, people feel worse. This is a reform of several. We are talking about reform policy, and there is a crazy difference in what we want to invest in. It would be very good if you could answer the question why you for eight years did not charge a little more when it comes to the differences between county councils, which have increased at a rather rapid rate.
i-278af95acb98fc01-150	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to transfer much more of what is currently the county council's responsibility in terms of advanced health care to the state, precisely to get it more equal across the country. But I think we should come back to that in some other debate. Back to child poverty: You repeat again that it is about relative poverty, specifically in SCB's measurements. It's a difficult concept, which I talked about before. But then you say we didn't do anything for the most vulnerable. There can be no more errors in accounting! We just bet on the most vulnerable. In our tax reforms, we reduced the tax most for those who earn the least, precisely in order for more people to be able to support themselves, that more people should feel: I am self-sufficient, I don't need to ask anyone else for money to afford coffee or diapers for my children or advice to prioritise in my everyday life. More people should feel that independence. We have also invested in more people getting a job, not least those who do not have a long educational background and find it difficult to get an advanced job. RUT services are a very important contribution to more people becoming self-sufficient. It is something that you oppose and degradingly call maid services. But it's real, good work that people are proud to go to and that they absolutely shouldn't have to be ashamed of. We have also looked at the children who are struggling because their parents are poor, children who themselves have testified that they must refrain from leisure activities. There we said: Here we must direct money specifically to something that benefits the children. The children's rights organisations agreed with us. Those who work with the children in social services agreed with us. But what are the Left Party and the present government doing? Well, taking away what you know is money directed directly at children, taking away money that makes children now again have to quit football, quit their dance, quit gymnastics.
i-278af95acb98fc01-156	Mr President, I would like to The issue we are now discussing is not quite like the subsidiarity tests we are used to doing in this House. I note that it is a very critical opinion that is being proposed, an opinion that has also been dealt with in full agreement in committee. Moreover, it is not without some surprise that there are shortcomings in the most fundamental aspects of the European Parliament's communication with us in Parliament. It may seem self-evident to announce that a subsidiarity review procedure has been initiated, so that the national parliaments of the European Union are actually given the opportunity to initiate such a review, but this has not happened in this case. The fact that the draft electoral act has not been accompanied by a statement of reasons regarding the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality also deserves criticism. The right of national parliaments to examine proposals for EU legislation under subsidiarity was introduced in the context of the Lisbon Treaty. The aim was to strengthen the influence of the parliaments of the Member States – and hence the elected legislators – on the possible transfer of power to the EU. Departing from the practices established between the parliaments of the Member States and the EU institutions may damage the confidence that has been established in the years in which the tool has been in place. At worst, shortcomings such as those mentioned can reduce the Treaty-bound democratic role of national parliaments in EU decision-making. As far as the actual content is concerned – what we have to test in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality – it becomes clear that very little can pass without substantial power over one of the regulations that is most important for the functioning of our democracy, namely the electoral law, in many respects being proposed to move from the national level to the European level. The proposals, if implemented, would also have implications in the areas of freedom of expression and pressure. It seems a little strange to us that the European Parliament actually wants to dictate what the Swedish parties should have in their political programmes and what their ballot papers should look like. Otherwise, it is also questionable whether several of the other proposals on the table are reasonable in relation to what it would mean in terms of legal regulation of what we usually consider to be the internal affairs of the parties. To conclude, I just want to say that I find it strange that the European Parliament has not involved the national elected assemblies at an earlier stage in this process. A more constructive and perhaps even pan-European debate would probably have been able to take off. The trend and ambition since the start of EU elections have been clear, namely to give voters understanding and understanding of EU issues and to increase the influence of the population as a whole over what is decided at transnational level. Then, for example, a common election day that is now being proposed can be useful. The purpose of the European Parliament's proposals is clear. They want to achieve just that, and that's right. Unfortunately, however, it seems that Parliament has missed the most important element in the recipe for increased civic participation, namely the political debate. Mr President, I would like to With this brief speech, I can see that the European Parliament's proposals would be largely inappropriate to implement. Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal.
i-278af95acb98fc01-164	Mr President, I would like to The basis for this matter is that the European Parliament has presented a proposal and now also a resolution on amendments to the EU electoral act. It is an ongoing dossier in which the Council is currently discussing the proposal. The aim of the proposal, as we heard, is to increase the democratic and cross-border dimension of European elections, to increase the democratic legitimacy of the decision-making process, to strengthen citizenship of the Union and to increase the legitimacy of the European Parliament. To ensure this, the European Parliament has proposed a series of very far-reaching measures. I was going to outline what it looks like. Firstly, the European Parliament proposes a single parliamentary term and a common day and time for the end of the European elections. This proposal also states that all forecasts and other forecasts based on polling polls should not be communicated until after that date, as this may affect the outcome of the elections. Secondly, it proposes a regulatory framework at Union level to prevent double voting. It proposes a very wide-ranging exchange of information between Member States, on the one hand, with regard to nationals who have dual nationality and, on the other hand, with regard to nationals who reside in one Member State but who are nationals of another. Thirdly, we want to introduce a new joint constituency, in which the lists of the parties are topped by the candidates of each party for the presidency of the Commission. Fourthly, the European Parliament proposes that there should be a regulation of the content, publication and distribution of party electoral material. Fifthly, it is proposed to introduce rules on the establishment of candidate lists, voting lists, the appearance of lists in terms of logos and European party names. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has a position on this matter on the applicability of the subsidiarity provisions. We can see that this is the case and that this proposal is of such a nature that it is subject to the principle of subsidiarity. We note that, in this process, the European Parliament has failed in its information on the start of this subsidiarity review and the start of the deadline. This has not been quite clear. We would also like to state that the draft proposal lacks justification as to why the objectives and objectives of the regulatory changes must be carried out at Union level and not at Member State level. In previous cases, we have made very strong criticisms when such a justification is lacking, because it impairs the ability of national parliaments to influence the decision-making process. Our view is that in several areas the proposal is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. This applies not least to those proposals which intend to regulate the nomination schemes of the national parties. We believe that regulation at Union level is a serious interference in the internal life of parties, and it can even be questioned if such a far-reaching regulation should be accepted even at national level. We also believe that the proposals for a single constituency and top candidates go too far in relation to the objectives set. On the contrary, we believe that such regulation can be counterproductive. It is not the case that voters rush to the polling stations to cast their votes in the European elections. The risk is that with more regulation it will be exactly the opposite, that is, that you lose your legitimacy and that fewer people will choose to vote in the European elections. This type of regulation would be better suited at national level. We believe that several of the proposals are contrary to the Swedish constitution. This applies, for example, to the regulation of the appearance of ballot papers, the content of the election campaign material of the national parties and the publication of the election campaign material. This also applies to the ban on the publication of election forecasts. It is important that, in a democratic society, we ensure very clearly the freedom of expression and the freedom of the press and of expression and that we reject the idea of restricting freedom of expression and of expression through regulation at Union level, which is completely unnecessary. The committee, on the other hand, believes that there is a small point of light in the dark, and that is the proposal for a single parliamentary term and a common day and time for the end of the European elections. We believe that regulation at Union level is the most appropriate way of achieving this objective. On the other hand, consideration should be given to whether the measures on regulation at Union level to prevent double voting, for example, are too bureaucratic and far-reaching. Mr President, I would like to I agree with the previous speaker that we are extremely critical of the proposal that has been put forward. It also permeates the reasoned opinion that we propose to the Riksdag to adopt. With this, I call for the proposal to be approved in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee.
i-278af95acb98fc01-179	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats, as the name suggests, are a pro-Sweden party. This means, for our part, that we, unlike some more internationalist and more federal parties, always strive for power to remain in Sweden. In cases where power has been handed over, we strive to ensure that it is actually returned to the Swedish people. The fact that EU powers are striving to link as much power as possible to themselves at the expense of Europe's independent nations is regrettable, but in this context no wonder at all. What is remarkable, on the other hand, is the attempt to muzzle power by sending incomplete documents to the national parliaments to decide on. In this case, therefore, the European Parliament has sent this legislative act to Parliament without attaching the usual notification that all the language versions of the proposal have been sent to the other national parliaments of the EU Member States. Nor was there any information that the procedure used to review the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality had been initiated. According to the procedure, such information follows when files are submitted by the Commission and the Council. A united committee has now welcomed the fact that the absence of such opinions leads to uncertainty among national Parliaments as to whether the current act is subject to the rules of subsidiarity or even the date from which such a subsidiarity deadline is to be counted. The committee has also stated that it would be a good order if all legislative acts sent to national parliaments were accompanied by such information, whether the sender is the Commission, the Council or, as in this case, the European Parliament. If this has been done deliberately on the part of Parliament, it is of course very bad. If this has been done by an oversight, it is also very bad. However, those responsible should be ashamed of themselves and do a better job in the future. As far as the substance of this proposal is concerned, there is much to be said about. The proposal is overly detailed, as many previous speakers have mentioned. It contains rules governing the inner life of political parties. It is particularly remarkable that it contains rules on things that are already, or are not, governed by the Swedish freedom of the press. Such questions concern logos on ballot papers, how to publish election material and prohibition of forecasts based on polling polls, i.e. very far-reaching rules. As a true friend of Sweden, I am therefore pleased that today a united committee is sending the proposal back to the European Union with two lessons: firstly, the European Union must be more clear. Secondly, the EU must keep its fingers off the Swedish constitution.
i-278af95acb98fc01-185	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it is a little extra interesting for us who are very interested in legislation on the more principled level. As far as I am aware, the KU is proposing, for the first time, that a subsidiarity test be carried out and that a reasoned opinion be given without having been directly asked to do so. We are discussing a rather special electoral act. The EU electoral act has been being processed for a very long time. The idea has been to bring about stronger and more formed European parties, a common election day, joint lists and joint campaign material. The background to this has been the desire to have a much larger and broader joint debate and policy in the electoral movement and to get more focus on the EU debate. In the long run, it wants to see some form of the United States of Europe where there will be more focus on the common policy in order to give more legitimacy. The proposal put forward by the EU is very far-reaching. Even in the United States there is not a single joint constituency, and no one would even think of proposing such a thing. To demand other party symbols than those in which we recognise ourselves may be directly counterproductive when the electorate does not recognise the party he is voting for. Lists where the Swedish EU candidate may be found first on the back of the ballot can directly reduce the interest in voting. We are discussing today whether, at European level, consideration has been given to whether the proposal should be examined, despite the fact that such far-reaching measures are proposed in the electoral act. The KU believes that there should be a review and that a very critically motivated opinion should be written. Many of the proposals go against the Swedish constitution and the principle that issues should not be dealt with at a higher level. I support the committee's proposal in its opinion.
i-278af95acb98fc01-189	Mr President, I would like to In the Constitutional Committee, we have come up with a proposal for Parliament to submit a reasoned opinion to the European Parliament on our subsidiarity review of the EU electoral act. I think that we from the Constitutional Committee have come up with a clear and good draft opinion. We hope that those working on these issues in the European Parliament will understand the opinion. The KU believes that the basic idea of the current electoral act on the rules of national elections should also apply to the European elections. Confidence in the electoral process is created by recognition. We believe it is important to maintain confidence in the electoral process. This also affects the number of citizens who are prepared to take part in elections. There are elements in the proposal in which the Constitutional Committee believes that we can agree that there are specific rules regarding the European elections. These are measures to avoid double voting. At the same time, the elections must not be too bureaucratic. There is a tendency to do so in the proposal. We can accept that part, as well as setting a date and time for the elections to be concluded jointly throughout Europe. As far as the other proposals on the electoral act are concerned, we are critical. We believe that they are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say that we believe that we can manage the legislation better at national level than that the European Parliament should take over the power of decision on how the European elections are to take place. We do not believe that the inner life of political parties should be over-governed. It should generally be able to go to Sweden. Some of the proposals are so far-reaching that there may even be a conflict with our constitutional regulation in Sweden about freedom of expression and press. This applies, inter alia, to the requirement in the electoral act for party symbols to appear on the ballot papers. In Sweden we have decided that there may be party symbols on the ballots, but in the European elections it would be mandatory according to the proposal. We believe that this is too far-reaching. It gives problems freedom of the press. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee.
i-278af95acb98fc01-195	Mr President, I would like to Several speakers have explained the content of the reasoned opinion with merit. It's brilliantly written. We could also say that this is shit, but the opinion is much better written. That's very good. It's good that we agree so much. I fully agree with Jonas Gunnarsson in concluding that the proposal is directly inappropriate. If the proposal may land again in the European Parliament, I hope that we are equally in agreement there too. It is good if it is possible to understand a political line if the parties have the same views regardless of the Parliament in which they are represented. In the European Parliament, the representatives of FI, who are not represented here, and the Liberals, the Center Party and the Social Democrats have voted in favour of the proposal. I shall also say that two Social Democrats abstained. I hope that what has been said in this House will also be the policy pursued in the European Parliament. A prerequisite for us also to get our will through is that we keep our line all the way. The opinion is gratifying, and I hope that this will result in the whole package being thrown into the trash basket.
i-278af95acb98fc01-199	Mr President, I would like to I can say at the outset that I am in danger of taking over a few minutes of the speech. I hope there is indulgence in that. The Swedish Democrats have a total of six reservations in the report, but for time-winning I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 1 and reservation 4. I would also like to tell those of you who are listening that the Swedish Democrats can support some parts of the proposal that are being presented. This applies, among other things, to how we should develop methods for identifying communities and organisations that cannot be supported and money from the public because they do not live up to fundamental democratic values by, for example, advocating radical Islamism. We also agree that there is a need to review the need for clarification responsibilities for school leaders and others working with children and young people to counter radicalisation. Mr President, I would like to Terrorism is not a new phenomenon. The Swedish Democrats have long warned against the spread of Islamism. We all know how it has long been discussed around the world how to wage the war on terrorism, how Islamism can best be fought back and how the democratic part of the world can win the battle against terrorism. The solutions discussed are more or less far-reaching, but the vast majority of modern countries in the world seem to agree that we need to do more. An international arms race against the terrorist threat is currently underway. Sweden's contribution to the arms race is called Mona Sahlin. With the help of support phones and gender education, she and the government will fight tough IS warriors. Mr President, I would like to For us it is not wrong to appoint a national coordinator, but it should then be a person with documented knowledge in the field and not a former party leader who has on several occasions shown poor judgment and poor reality. As politicians from sick leaves, it has unfortunately been very close at hand to completely disregard the reality in favour of their personal political preferences. When you don't want to change politics, you instead try to change the reality, which is usually expressed in politically correct floats about a more exciting Sweden but with a little more and bigger challenges. It is also common then to accuse us Swedish democrats of too one-sidedly focusing on Islamism. My simple answer is that it is not only me and my party who believe that we should focus on Islamism, but also most of the researchers who, unlike Mona Sahlin, have deeper knowledge of the subject, for example. One of these researchers who possesses this knowledge is terrorist researcher Magnus Norell, who was interviewed by Dagens Samhälle on Thursday. He summarises the proposals as follows: The proposals are very general, on the verge of meaningless. He also says: If the municipal coordinator works in the same way as Mona Sahlin, it is bad. Furthermore, the same researcher believes that it is wrong to bundle violent Islamism with other violent ideologies. Even the government's own investigators have established what kind of extremism really poses the greatest threat. Yet the majority here seems to be content with this ineffective and misguided report by the coordinator you have been appointing. Mr President, I would like to I could stand here for a long time and point out that the Reinfeldt Government appointed one of the most controversial politicians of our time, also former party leader of the Social Democrats, as national coordinator and our main weapon against violent extremism. The Swedish Democrats want the Riksdag to announce to the Government that it lacks confidence in Mona Sahlin and propose that she be replaced by a non-political coordinator who has the necessary knowledge and the mission so well deserves. One of the proposals in the report is to strengthen and support communities and organisations that want to combat radicalisation. What seems to have been completely missed here is that many of these very communities and organisations are contributing to increased radicalisation, even if they condemn it externally. Again, I would like to refer to Magnus Norell and the interview he gave in Dagens Samhälle last Thursday. Magnus Norell says the following: It is these organisations that are appointed as dialogue partners. They are strong, well-organized and receive a lot of state subsidies and municipal grants. But then the official image of Islam becomes the image of Islamists. Organized Islam is completely dominated by conservative Islam. This, then, is what one of the leading terrorist scientists explicitly says. A concrete example of how to say something outward from mosques but do something completely different in reality was shown a few years ago. You may all remember the 2012 Mission Review program that reviewed mosques and their representatives with hidden camera. It was clear from the discussions how they acted internally in order to oppress women, while at the same time, outwardly, it was noted that women and men were of equal value. To give these organisations more support in the form of, for example, more money from the Treasury simply means that once again – I do not know what time in the order – shoots themselves in the foot. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats do not want the Riksdag to decide on more support and money for these communities and organisations. Furthermore, the Constitutional Committee proposes that the Riksdag decide on measures to try to prevent radicalisation and recruitment in digital environments, i.e. on the internet. In the committee's view, this should be done by spreading positive counter-messages about democracy and our fundamental values. The fact that the state is to act as an Internet warrior will, in our opinion, rather reinforce a feeling in people who are being radicalised, and those who are spreading radical messages are getting even more arguments in their toolbox that they can use to push their thesis of a common enemy. In this part too, we Swedish democrats are opposed to the proposal. There are also two proposals in the report, one under paragraph 9 under the heading. Mr President, I would like to In this, the Swedish Democrats want to be extremely clear. Anyone who once left Sweden to war with IS or with al-Q Aida has exhausted his right to ever return to Sweden. In Sweden Democrats' Sweden, therefore, no money is needed from either welfare or societal investments to carry out any drop-off activities in Sweden for terrorists.
i-278af95acb98fc01-219	Mr President, I would like to When the sun rose over Paris on Saturday 14 November last year, 130 people were dead, murdered by fanatical Islamists. When flags waved at half pole in Trollhättan last October, it was in memory of children and school staff who were killed by a hateful racist. Nearly 300 people have travelled from our country, from places such as Gothenburg, Örebro, Gävle and many others to fight for Daish or IS, a barbaric and brutal terrorist organisation that expels entire communities, enslaves women and kills children. Around Sweden, refugee homes have been set on fire, and the other day in Stockholm people were hunted with the foreign appearance of a racist mob. Mr President, I would like to We live in a serious and dramatic time when our fundamental values and the way we live are challenged. Let us be clear about this: our fundamental values are being attacked and there is now a struggle for the values of society. The extremists and terrorists in France, Sweden, the Middle East and elsewhere do not use their weapons in an ethical, cultural and ideological vacuum. The weapons are used because there are people, including in our country, who stand for anti-democratic values, values that make them think it is righteous to use violence to force others to submit, that violence is a legitimate means of changing society. The free world won the Cold War between freedom in the West and oppression in the East. We must also win the battle that is now raging between democracy and extremism. Today, in Parliament, we are debating measures to make society more resistant to violent extremism. The Government has submitted a letter to the Riksdag with a series of measures in this area, and it has been dealt with by the Constitutional Committee. The measures taken by the government to prevent extremism are good and build on the work that the Alliance Government reported to the Riksdag a few years ago. However, the Alliance in the Constitutional Committee believes that more measures are needed in addition to those that the government has now reported. The Alliance has therefore put forward a series of proposals in a follow-up motion to sharpen preventive work, and we are pleased that the government parties have met us on a number of points. This means that there is broad support in this House for further important measures in the fight against radicalisation and extremism, and that means that the Constitutional Committee wants to address seven announcements to the government. I will now present them. First of all, we say that the work against violent extremism needs to be continuously developed. The work of the National Coordinator is due to be completed in June, and it is very important that it is not seen as the end of the work against extremism, not even as the beginning of the end, but possibly as the end of the beginning. Early detection of people who are heading in the wrong direction is central to the work against radicalisation. The Alliance and the government parties therefore believe, secondly, that there should be a review of whether school leaders and others working with children and young people should be given increased responsibility for countering radicalisation and sounding the alarm when they see such tendencies. The school must stand up for democratic values and not let undemocratic views stand unopposed. It is also important for the school to ask the surrounding community, such as social services and the police, for help if you notice that young people are at risk of radicalisation. The UK has introduced a preventive duty, a duty to prevent, and we believe that British experience should be taken into account in Sweden. Thirdly, our parties agree that organisations and communities that reject fundamental principles of a democratic society should not be supported with taxpayers' money. The state must therefore ensure that government subsidies do not go to anti-democratic organisations, but this also needs to be followed up at the municipal level. Sometimes there seems to have been a reluctance from different municipalities to question continued municipal contributions, even when, for example, it has been shown that organisations have repeatedly invited speakers who are known for anti-democratic views, whether they were exterminators or hate preachers. The state therefore needs to develop methods and tools to enable municipalities to identify such associations and receive support in their assessments. At the same time, we stress, fourthly, the importance of strengthening and supporting communities and organisations that want to combat radicalisation. It is very important that many citizens defend the values of democracy and openly reject extremism. Civil society institutions and organisations play a major role there. Fifthly, it is essential that municipalities and other authorities are prepared to deal with people who return and are suspected of having committed serious crimes abroad but cannot be prosecuted as a result of lack of evidence. The authorities must never be seen as naive, and it must never be the case that people of this kind receive more favourable treatment than others in terms of, for example, access to housing and labour market measures. At the same time, it is important to stress that persons who are Swedish citizens under the Constitution always have the right to return to Sweden. It is a system that has been in force for a long time, and it is a system that will last until we change our constitution. It is also important to point out that no preparatory work is under way to change the form of government in this respect or in any other way. If this is to be changed, it is only by 2023, after the 2022 elections, that such a change could be implemented. Those who now cry out loudly for measures to exclude Swedish citizens from Sweden thus have a long road ahead of them. If we want action here and now to counter the threat that returnees can pose to our society, it is the proposals that we, the majority of the committees, put forward that are within our reach. That is what is realistic and concrete and applies here and now. Furthermore, the sixth report points out that more knowledge is needed in order for many – in school, on social media and in other contexts – to be able to respond to extremist propaganda. The meaning of Nazism and left-wing extremism is quite well known in our society, but the knowledge of violent Islamism is often insufficient. An initiative is therefore needed to disseminate knowledge about the abuse and ideology of violent Islamist organisations, a mission that can be proposed to the Living History Forum. It is well known that social media is used as platforms to spread propaganda from extremist organisations. It is therefore very important for the seventh to work proactively to counter radicalisation online. The KU and the Justice Committee recently organised a hearing on radicalisation and recruitment in digital environments on a proposal from myself and Beatrice Ask. It gave a very worrying picture of terrorist organisations that carry out well-thought out and professional work using, among other things, social media to create support for their cause. Then it goes without saying that good forces must be there to question and refute the extremists' claims and myths. At the same time, however, it is also important to spread positive counter-messages about democracy and our fundamental values. Both these tasks and actions can be promoted through missions to authorities, but also through support to organisations and communities that wish to engage in the work. The state is probably in many contexts not the most credible sender if you want to communicate with young people. This is why civil society plays a key role here too. Mr President, I would like to Every day extremists in our country and throughout Europe try to recruit young people to fight against democracy. Those of us who are on the side of democracy have a common responsibility to work actively against extremism and radicalisation. Today, at the proposal of the Constitutional Committee, Parliament will decide on further measures in this important work. Mr President, I would like to We are living in a serious and dramatic time, a time when our democratic values and the way we live are being challenged, a time when the banners of hate and extremism are trying to win the hearts of young people, a time when our social contract and our community are being put to the test. We are being challenged, and we must not give in. We in this House must not give in. All the millions of people throughout Sweden who stand for democracy, the freedom of the individual, tolerance, openness, equality and all the other values that underpin our society must not give way. We must challenge the extremists' distorted world view and paranoid conspiracy theories. We must challenge the hatred, the malice and the contempt for humanity. We must challenge the forces that want to turn young people all over Sweden into obedient tools in an extremist struggle. Democracy must be won by every new generation, and now we are holding the torch of freedom– we in this House, we in this country. We shall keep that torch burning – because it is right, because it is good and because it is our duty. Against this background, I support the proposal in the Constitutional Committee's report.
i-278af95acb98fc01-233	(Andre VICE TALMANNEN: I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the speaking time used exceeded the time reported by more than 25%. )
i-278af95acb98fc01-234	Mr President, I would like to I am always very happy when I hear my last name pronounced correctly, so I thank the President for having succeeded in this when he gave me the floor. We are here today to debate the Constitutional Committee's report KU4, Measures to make society more resistant to violent extremism – a rather long title. It is also the name of the government's letter, which we in the committee think should be added to the documents. The measures proposed by the government are good, as we point out in the report, but we want to take it one step further. It is gratifying that we have been able to coordinate across the block border on this important issue. It shows a sense of responsibility for society and for the seriality of the committee. In the discussion that has taken place, there has been a sensitivity to the wishes of each party, and I personally think that our agreement was successful. My firm conviction is that the most important thing in order to overcome any form of extremism is to have good preventive work. With people who are safe and confident that society is there for them, the scope for extreme violent organisations to attract them is small. It is no secret that it is young people who are the easiest to attract to violent organisations – especially young people who have not yet found their identity. How are we going to help them find it before they get into a gang that's hard to get out of, before the gang is their identity, before they get lured into a violent spiral? Mr President, I would like to We have some proposals presented in the report and presented just now by the chairman of the committee, Andreas Norlén. It would be presumptuous to think that this will be the only solution, but we believe that the proposals can bring us closer to a society capable of resisting violent extremism. I would also like to highlight some of them. The previous government appointed a national coordinator to develop a coherent strategy to protect democracy against extremism, as previously mentioned. Part of the aim is to improve collaboration between authorities, municipalities and organisations so that they can stand up to the pressure. The coordinator shall also ensure that knowledge of violent extremism is increased and that preventive methods are developed. This is, of course, an important piece of work, and – now something that I do not usually say in too many contexts – the alliance government is to be commended for that decision. One advantage of our agreeing across the block line is that there is continuity in work regardless of government. The proposal I would like to mention here is that the work of the coordinator should be pursued and that experience should be taken into account. Knowledge is often mentioned as a way of dealing with various problems in society – here too. It's hard to defeat an enemy you don't know anything about. As you know, knowledge also comes with power. For this reason, the committee proposes, for example, that the Living History Forum should provide information on the abuse and ideology of violent Islamist organisations. The Living History Forum is a national forum for promoting democracy, tolerance and human rights. The starting point is the Holocaust. The Authority shall strive to strengthen people's willingness to actively promote the equal value of all people. It produces studies and facts, shows exhibitions for school pupils and the general public and carries out information activities in general. In view of the Forum's activities, it would have been reasonable to also produce material on this extremism, just as the Authority has done on information on the violent history of Nazism and Communism. If there is another authority or body that is better suited to the task, it can of course do the work instead. The important thing is to obtain information so that people who are in contact with people who are at risk of falling outside society and in extreme groups, regardless of ideological basis, know what to keep their eyes on. Mr President, I would like to On 16 November last year, an attempt started with a support phone where people can call if they want tips and advice on what they can do to prevent a loved one from getting involved in a violent extremist movement. You can call there anonymously, and it's the Red Cross that's manning the phone. The experiment will last until June this year, and depending on how it goes, it can be a permanent solution. This is a concrete measure that can help people who are concerned about their loved ones. Mr President, I would like to There are, of course, other environments than the ideological ones where violence is glorified. For example, patent violence has become more and more common. It's even spread to the world of basketball, I've been told recently. This is not an isolated problem that exists only in one area. In a society where contradictions between groups are burning and where one is expected to identify itself primarily as part of a particular group and not as a social citizen, we risk getting even more polarisations. I will not say that we should be hugging more here in Parliament's pulpit. But point out that with tolerance and a willingness to draw closer to each other, we can keep the violence at a lower level – I will do so. Astrid Lindgren was never the winner of the Nobel Prize, but she was wise enough to suggest: Give the children love, more love and even more love, and people's minds will come of themselves. With that, Mr President, I would like to thank myself and conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-278af95acb98fc01-249	Mr President, I would like to Emilia Töyrä said in her speech a few positive words about the Alliance. I want to keep doing that. We are dealing with the KU4, which is part of a much broader agreement on terrorism which the Alliance and the government entered into in December. There was much stronger legislation, counter-terrorist travel, the misuse of passports and a range of other measures. It also includes as part of the importance of working with preventive work. One should not be tempted to believe that this work is something that only happens alone, but it is an important part of the whole large legislative process. The agreement clarifies the responsibilities of municipalities, prevention and recruitment online. We are now discussing the government's letter on measures to make society more resistant to violent extremism and two motions on the same issues. There is a motion from the alliance parties and a motion from SD. Furthermore, we have received opinions from both the Committee on Justice and Education, and we have also had a broad public hearing with the Committee on Justice, which was largely concerned with radicalisation online. As several speakers have mentioned in the past, this is a topical issue, which has been topical for a long time. We have traditionally had extreme left and right groups calling for violence. But the emerging group of violent Islamist extremists has come into being and has given an increasing focus to what is being mapped. The last survey was carried out in 2014. In addition to these three groups, it is pointed out that there are also individuals who can be very dangerous in themselves and who can have quite a distance from the different groupings. You shouldn't forget them. The previous government appointed the national coordinator, which Emilia was involved in earlier. The main mission is to protect democracy against violent extremism, and consists of involving and involving relevant actors at ground and local level. It concerns social services, schools, police, leisure activities and various forms of civil society organisations. This may be the case for religious communities, but it may also apply to other organisations. It is about facilitating development and broadening knowledge. There is a broad network of co-operation between authorities linked to the national coordinator. Training materials and recommendations are produced for the work of municipalities, and good practices are being disseminated. The national support telephone is being tested until June 2016. Then you'll have to see if it's going to continue. The phone has received somewhere between four and five calls a day, and it has been an important support. As I said, let's see if it's going to continue. There are SEK 8 million allocated for 2016 in state grants for operations that safeguard democracy. The grant can be applied for by various organisations but also by municipalities. The Government states 21 points in its letter. They can be divided into what concerns national coordination, measures to safeguard democracy and the equal value of all people and the development of educational material. This is about the campaign that the National Media Council is doing – No Hate Speech Movement online. It is also a question of missions to the Living History Forum and the Board for State Aid to Faith Communities. There are measures targeted at specific risk groups. It is about giving the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society the task of looking at how to distribute money to counteract anti-democratic currents. They also produce educational material, provide support for relatives and so on. There are assignments to the National Board of Health and Welfare to provide additional support for social services. There are assignments to the Prison Service to map the methods they use to work preventively in their operations. There are measures to support defectors and a strengthened Nordic exchange of experiences. In the report, the majority of the committee has had a large and broad consensus. We would like to see the government, which already has a broad range of work in this area, clarify and develop this work in some areas. I think that's good. Several of the points on which we are now making announcements are those on which work is under way and which may need to be tightened up. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal to add the letter to the file with the additional notices.
i-278af95acb98fc01-260	Mr President, I would like to Our report by the Constitutional Committee on making society more resistant to violent extremism is based on a government letter. Following our follow-up motion from the alliance parties, a major effort has been made to find common positions within the KU. These have been formulated in a proposal that the Riksdag should make an announcement to the Government about what measures we want the Government to implement in order to prevent, detect and combat violent extremism. One of the measures I want to highlight is how society can detect and counteract the violent messages that are spread on the internet and in social media. These messages are tools for recruitment to extremist organisations and groups. A few weeks ago, the media drew attention to how IS is very actively working online to spread its violent propaganda. We stress in the announcement that a proactive approach is important. Society needs to assign assignments to organizations that can detect, question and counter these messages online. There is therefore a need to develop easily accessible information materials that promote democracy, and it needs to be developed in several languages. This is necessary in order for us to have a successful job in this regard. I look forward to the fact that we will shortly be examining the Government proposal on the criminalisation of preparations for terrorist acts. It is preparation that is often carried out by those who have taken part online in violent propaganda. This is a criminalisation that I have been presenting to Parliament for three years by means of motions. Mr President, I would like to I support the Constitutional Committee's proposal for an announcement on this matter.
i-278af95acb98fc01-265	Mr President, I would like to So, as several have already said, we are discussing the government's letter on measures to make society more resilient to violence's affirming extremism and the motions that have been brought about by it. It is indeed a job that is now more than ever needed. There are many good proposals in the letter, and many good proposals have also been made by the committee in connection with motions for resolutions. Groupings that promote violence as a political method and that also use violence are nothing new in Sweden. As many have said, this has been going on on and on and on and on at different times. In March 1940, a newspaper in Norrbotten, the Northern Lights Flame, was subjected to a fire attack. Five people, of which two children, died. Five people were injured. It is the worst act of terror in Sweden in the 20th century. It is also a reality that we must not ignore. This has continued. From August 1991 to January 1992, John Ausonius shot eleven people in Stockholm and Uppsala. One died and several were injured for life. The common denominator of the victims was dark hair or dark skin color. On October 12, 1999, the trade union activist Björn Söderberg was murdered. Two neo-Nazis have been convicted of the murder. Another one has been convicted of the protection of criminals and serious gun crimes. From 13 June 2003 until the arrest in November 2010, Peter Mangs carried out numerous acts of violence in Malmö. The whole city was put in fear. He's been convicted of two murders, multiple attempted murder and assault. Apartments and buildings have been fired upon. The common denominator of the victims is also here dark hair or dark skin color. On March 8, 2014, Malmö FF supporter Showan Shattak and three other people were beaten after a feminist demonstration in Malmö. Even here, it was Nazis who attacked and attacked. On 22 October 2015, students and teachers were attacked at comprehensive school Kronan in Trollhättan. Three died and two were injured, and here too there were racist motives. In addition, we have seen a lot of arsons in refugee camps in 2015. It is a reality that we cannot ignore. We also have other forms of violence's affirming activists. This weekend we have seen how football hooligans down from the so-called firms have joined forces with extreme right-wing groups and attacked children on the streets of Stockholm – crowds who have pulled around with the declared aim of actually beating children. We also have, of course, as has been mentioned here several times, a problem with other violent groups, such as violent Islamists who travel abroad, participate in war and then come back to Sweden and pose a threat. We must, of course, act on all forms of violent extremism. It is good that there are proposals that can be used widely and in different ways. But then there is something that we must also do, and it is about how we together are to create a society where there is actually a smaller recruitment basis for these groups. As I said, we have always had extreme groups who have campaigned for political violence. There have been Nazi groups in Sweden since the 1940s. But they have not always been able to recruit. They have not always been able to draw other people to themselves. What has happened now is that we have a society that has been torn apart. We have a society where more people are left out and then it is also easier for these groups to recruit. It has no place in this letter how we work against what has already arisen, but it has a place in the question: how do we build a society that is strong and that is united and able to defend democratic values where everyone feels that they belong and are actually part of a good society that we all want to defend?
i-278af95acb98fc01-272	Mr President, I would like to We have all followed the events in Paris, the attacks in France, both last January and last autumn, in Copenhagen and also in Sweden, when Stockholm actually suffered a suicide bomber. Sweden is not spared from extremism and radicalism. There is radicalisation, recruitment and funding for terrorism. Municipalities such as Gothenburg and Örebro are particularly vulnerable. Developments over the last three years have been worrying, especially since the summer of 2014 when al-Baghdadi-Baghdadi proclaimed a so-called caliphate in Syria and Iraq to call on people from the outside world and Europe to join a so-called jihad war, a religious war. The fact that over 300 people have so far travelled from Sweden to this area of conflict also shows that we need to take urgent action, Mr President. Therefore, on 13 August 2015, the government submitted this letter which the Constitutional Committee is now examining containing revised and new proposals for authorities but also to the national coordinator against violent extremism. The Government then handed over its strategy against terrorism, which was discussed by the Riksdag in December. But in that document, it was mainly future investigations that were announced, not concrete legislative proposals. The Liberals and the Alliance agreed with the government on a number of counter-terrorism measures but also preventive measures, which we presented on 10 December. I had the opportunity to participate in the very constructive conversations. However, I regret that the Left Party was not present when the agreement was revised. The work against violent extremism in all its forms clearly requires action in addition to the repressive ones, which tighten the penalties and criminalise travel. It is no understatement to claim that Sweden has been tame when it comes to those who have returned to Sweden after having participated in terrorist activities for example in the slam state. These people have coldly calculated that you will not suffer any sanction if you come back to Sweden. That picture, that calculation, we have to change. Sweden needs to do much more in order for more people to be prosecuted for the heinous crimes that many of those people have committed, either directly or indirectly by supporting terrorism and extremism. Mr President, I would like to So far, there is a single final judgment from the Swedish court. It dates from 2005 for the financing of terrorism. Now we also await the appeal to the Svea Court of Appeal after two persons were recently sentenced to life imprisonment in the Gothenburg District Court, for terrorism through murder in Syria in the spring of 2013. So no one in Sweden has yet been sentenced to call for terrorism. No one has been sentenced for recruitment to terrorism. We have great concerns in a number of areas to which we can no longer turn a blind eye. These are environments where young people and adults are radicalized and deliberately tricked or lured into extremist activities. I visited Örebro on Monday, to look at how they work with radicalisation and extremism. 20 people from just one Swedish municipality, Örebro, have travelled to Syria and Iraq over the past two and a half years to join the Islamic State. Therefore, drop-outs and, for example, support telephone lines are particularly important. Liberals welcome the measures presented in the report, which have also been further sharpened by the Alliance's announcements in a number of areas. This applies not least to contributions to organisations engaged in violent messages. The measures are broad and should hit radicalisation and extremism, regardless of the type. At the same time, however, we must use the Security Service's analysis which shows that violent Islamist extremism is the greatest threat to Sweden's democracy. Priority must be given to action on the basis of that analysis. Organisations and communities engaged in violent messages must be identified and public contributions must be withdrawn. Municipalities, county councils and state governments must withdraw the aid. If organisations actively oppose our liberal values, such as democracy and gender equality, they should not have access to the authority SST or municipalities and county councils. An announcement in the report, initiated by the Liberals and the Alliance, calls on the government and ultimately the Minister for Democracy to start work immediately on identifying communities that should not be supported by the public. Alice Bah Kuhnke said before Christmas in Agenda on SVT that she was prepared to review, even tighten up, the regulations. However, in an interpellation debate with me on the same theme on 12 January, she announced that the possibility already exists. So it is a little unclear to me what the government wants on this important issue. The second important call I would particularly like to highlight is the need for more active action on social media against radicalisation and extremism. Based on the Swedish Defence University's report, we know that the social media Facebook is an effective platform that is unfortunately abused and used for recruitment to terrorism and radicalisation. Improved dialogue between municipalities and communities exists. But it is obvious that it does not work. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Committee chooses to reject the Alliance's motion in that particular part. In my conversations with SST, the Committee on State Aid to Religious Communities, it has become apparent that there are shortcomings in the municipal dialogues with religious communities. Sometimes media reporting has even contributed to newspapers being bombed with demands to remove published articles and reports, such as Gefle Dagblad, which was asked to remove articles about the local mosque in Gävle. Organisations receiving public funds must be able to withstand media scrutiny and public scrutiny. I know there are great concerns about that. It risks consolidating radical environments that make it easier for some to recruit young people into terrorism and encourage them to spread violent messages. Therefore, the point of cooperation with municipalities is very central. But this also applies to work on social media. I support the committee's proposal in the report. Finally, I have to put a question to Jonas Millard, the Swedish Democrats, who have made reservations on point-by-point in the Constitutional Committee's report. It is considered ineffective. It is claimed that we are giving money to communities that practice violent extremism. The proposal on defection is rejected. It rejects the proposal in the committee's report to support communities and organisations that want to work against radicalisation and extremism. Mr President, I would like to It is incomprehensible that the Swedish Democrats are scolding the whole committee, making fools of the whole of Sweden's parliament and making reservations in the report. It's not credible.
i-278af95acb98fc01-290	Mr President, I would like to We were attacked here because we have a lot of reservations in the report. In my speech, I was clear about the parts of the report that we agree with over and with those parts where we do not agree with the rest of the committee. We are not the only ones who criticise the conclusions reached. This was completely sawed as late as Thursday by one of Sweden's foremost researchers. I have to ask: how can we defend all the parts of the report that are being called into question by researchers, who are far more knowledgeable than the coordinator who, for example, Roger Haddad has been involved in appointing? How can such a report be defended?
i-278af95acb98fc01-292	Mr President, I would like to Unlike the Swedish Democrats, I am happy to discuss the function of national coordinator, not the person. Jonas Millard devoted a large part of his speech to attacking the person Mona Sahlin. It's not okay in this context. If the Swedish Democrats have views on the function – whether it should remain or not, whether it should be given an extended mandate or more money or if it should propose legislative matters – it is in that case the one you are going to discuss, Jonas Millard. I think that the national coordinator, by going around and visiting a large part of Municipality Sweden, has contributed to increasing interest. In particular, local politicians have been forced to raise the issue of extremism and to discuss strategies. Initially, there were councillors who said they had no problem with this, that they didn't have to do anything. But when you scraped a little on the surface, began to visit neighborhoods and discuss with local congregations, associations, and schools, it turned out that they had some problems. In this sense, the national coordinator has contributed to this issue. As far as defection is concerned, we do not have a defector's activity today in terms of radicalisation and extremism. With this call, we are actually addressing the government. The government can choose to set up its own investigation, to assign it to the National Secretariat or how they now resolve the issue. It does not say that the exact method used against right-wing extremism is also best applied to radical extremism. It is too early to dismiss or subscribe to critical reports.
i-278af95acb98fc01-296	Mr President, I would like to It is clear to me that who you appoint is important if you are now to set up a national coordinator. It is important that it is a person who has knowledge and competence in the subject. It is obviously not important for Roger Haddad because it was decided to appoint Mona Sahlin as coordinator. It is not in that way that I only criticize Mona Sahlin as a person. For I clearly quoted what the scientist had said. He had reflected on the measures proposed by Mona Sahlin and reviewed them. I can repeat them again and quote him directly from the interview that I hope Roger Haddad has taken part in. It was published in Thursday's Society of Today. The researcher says: The proposals are very general, on the verge of meaningless. Further: If the municipal coordinator works in the same way as Mona Sahlin, it is bad. How can this total sawing be completely ignored? You, too, must have realised that there are very large improvement measures that could have been taken. One should have found, among other things, a coordinator who can do the job well and who has the necessary skills.
i-278af95acb98fc01-300	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that, as Jonas Millard does, the role of the national coordinator should be exaggerated. When I visited Örebro Municipality, I met the local and municipal coordinator against violent extremism. He is the one with his team together with social services, field assistants and the school staff who will do the job. But that work would not have been added and increased if we had not had a national function. In addition, this work through political initiatives and decisions has been accelerated. Jonas Millard may refer to any researcher and article, but there is no black or white in these questions. It's not as easy as Jonas Millard claims. But the Swedish Democrats did not answer any of my questions about the committee. We urge the government to start a defection activity, to start looking at methods to identify or support communities and organisations that actively want to work against radicalisation and extremism. The Swedish Democrats say no to that. I still find that incomprehensible.
i-278af95acb98fc01-304	Mr President, I would like to The debate has revealed – and I would like to emphasise – that our democratic society is being subjected to attacks by undemocratic violent movements and individuals. Measures that strengthen society's work against violent extremism are therefore urgent. According to Säpo, three violent extremist environments can be identified that do not accept the principles on which open democratic society is based. It is violent right-wing extremism, violent left-wing extremism and violent Islamist extremism. In addition, there are solitary extremists driven by various ideologies. Not least the threat of violent, radical Islamism appears to be a serious threat to our democratic society. Säpo has highlighted this, and history has given them the right. I am talking about terrorist groups such as Daish and Al-Qaida, who have the ambition to build an Islamic state, a caliphate, which has the ambition not only for a small area in the Middle East but for the whole world, also for Sweden. We know that by the hundreds Swedish citizens are attracted to these trouble spots and return with values, barriers and taboos wiped out by the most diabolical experiences and attacks they have engaged in. We need measures aimed at raising awareness of violent extremism. We need to develop preventive measures and methods. Authorities, municipalities and civil society organisations, including religious communities, need to make a more coordinated and effective contribution to safeguarding democracy against violent extremism. As we have heard before, the government has proposed in a letter a national coordination to protect democracy, protect the equal value and rights of all people against violent extremism, measures against identified risks, measures for individuals to leave violent extremist movements and a strengthened international exchange of knowledge and experience. It is important and good, and the Christian Democrats and a united committee support it, except perhaps in some respects the Swedish Democrats. We Christian Democrats welcome the measures to make society more resistant to violent extremism. This is a serious and urgent matter. Democracy must be protected, and society must become more resistant to radicalisation to violent extremism. The proposals that the committee is now putting forward to go further than the government did in its letter are good, but unfortunately it will certainly not be enough. This is a battle that is not concluded with today's debate and decision. The Christian Democrats, together with the other alliance parties, have formulated further steps to counter radicalisation to violent extremism. On a number of points, the committee has now supported these measures in the form of seven announcements. There is a need to continuously develop the work against violent extremism. The task assigned to the functions of the national coordinator is urgent. In the Alliance Movement, we point out that municipalities often lack tools to detect and prevent more people being recruited. The lack of knowledge about how to tackle the problem is significant. Basic work is needed to develop methods for how, for example, municipalities and schools are to be able to detect young people at an early stage who are at risk of radicalisation. Education is needed about what signals teachers, parents and all of us should be aware of. We believe that it should be a state responsibility to produce information material distributed to municipalities in order to increase their knowledge of preventive work but also how municipalities should work with returnees. Those who have committed crime and can be prosecuted shall be prosecuted. It is not all that can be legally enforced, yet it is a threat and a danger to the future. They must be captured and stopped. Municipalities also need to increase their knowledge of the messages of various violent ideologies in order to be better able to take the debate with advocates of extremism. There is relatively good knowledge of right-wing and left-wing ideologies, but knowledge of the ideological starting points of Daish and Al-Qaida and other violent Islamic movements is considerably weaker and needs to be strengthened. There is a need for deeper knowledge among young people about how a society can be affected by a lack of democracy, a lack of rule of law and a violation of human rights, precisely to reduce the risk of them being attracted to extreme movements. There is a need for knowledge about the abuse and ideology of violent Islamic organisations. When such knowledge is presented, it will act as a deterrent. The task of disseminating such knowledge could, in the light of the tasks already assigned to the Authority, be given to the Living History Forum. In order to receive various forms of organisational grants financed by taxpayers' money, we in committee call for them to be behind the fundamental principles of a democratic society. It is unreasonable to finance through tax funds organisations and communities that work to undermine our democratic governance and the values on which it is based, regardless of whether the organisations and communities are explicit advocates of violence or not. Therefore, the state should assist municipalities with methods and tools to identify communities and organisations that advocate or otherwise support various forms of violent extremism and should therefore not be able to receive support from the general community. At the same time, it is important to strengthen those forces that clearly reject violent extremism and that society supports them in their rejection. These powers exist, and they are important and credible. We also want to identify and inspire communities and organisations that want to work to combat radicalisation. Civil society is extremely important, and these efforts do not get away with society. The state should, of course, also use these methods and tools in its own work to prevent state subsidies being paid to organisations that do not accept basic democratic values. I would add that this should not only apply in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to My speaking time is almost up. I had reported eight minutes, but I could talk for a long time. If society does not take a strong stand against these extremely dangerous and nasty tendencies that win the ear of young people, we will have a society that becomes polarized, decaying and dangerous. We will see much more of repressive measures being imposed. That is why it is so important that, now, with the start of the measures that we have agreed in committee, we stand up for democratic society and say no to any use of violence, whoever the sender wants to be or whatever the reasons may be. That is why, Mr President, I am pleased to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-9J9CHVkmcpP5g47QL3rABd	Mr President, I would like to KU6 report is about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on digital radio, or DAB radio if you like. The background is several investigations, the latest of which was commissioned by the previous government in 2013 and handed over to the current government in November 2014. It was called From analog to digital terrestrial radio – A plan from Digital Radio Coordination, SO U 2014:77, to be careful. The government took a customary consultation session and started the preparation. In parallel, the Swedish National Audit Office chose to do its review. Overall, the consultation exercise showed that there was not sufficient support for a general introduction at the moment. It is easy to see the positive parts. Radio listeners would have more choice, more players would have room, and more niche groups would have their favorite programs. It would simply give freedom of expression a new and larger arena to operate in. But then we'll get to it. But we'll get to it. The uncertainties and doubts were, among other things, whether the choice of technology is right, whether the surface coverage was sufficient, the important role of radio in disasters and also what it looked like in our surrounding world. This, together with the uncertainty that lay in the actions of other countries, led the government to choose not to invest in DAB radio at the moment. This is clear in the text of the 2016 budget proposal for Category 17. But the government also describes its intention to follow developments internationally. There, our neighbour Norway is interesting, as is Great Britain and some others. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has stated in its consideration of the Government's letter 2015/ 16:25 that the Swedish National Audit Office's report does not contain any recommendations. We believe that the government has handled the report correctly, which is why the Constitutional Committee unanimously proposes that the Riksdag decide to add the Government's letter to the file.
i-278af95acb98fc01-325	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee's report No 6 deals with the review report carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office on whether the state has contributed to the fact that the transition proposed from analogue terrestrial radio to digital was effectively highlighted from an economic perspective and a listening perspective. The question and discussion of the changeover has actually been going on since the birth of the digital era in the 1990s and has resulted in a number of investigations, as the previous speaker has reported. The latest is the Digital Radio Coordination Report presented to the Government in November 2014. It is a major technological shift that we are talking about. It is basically a very complex issue. There are advantages and disadvantages. There are therefore both advocates and opponents. If we look at the benefits, we see that it is quite crowded in the frequency space today. Digitalization would free up space. There could be more players, better competition and thus also a more equal relationship between commercial and state radio. Disadvantages have to do with the fact that it is a major technology shift. This means a shift of the device itself in order to be able to receive this, and that also applies in cars. The Swedish National Audit Office's report highlights whether it is sufficiently illustrated if there is a demand for digital radio in the audience. If you look at technological developments in recent years, you can see that the development of internet radio has gone quite fast. The question is whether it is really not a wider area of development than just the switch to digital radio. Mr President, I would like to I have spent most of my life doing radio, not commercial radio, but military radio. Thereby, of course, I have special glasses on this aspect of digitalisation and the important role that radio plays in a context of crisis preparedness. This applies to surface coverage and thus access to radio in our elongated and in many parts sparsely populated country. These are aspects that are highlighted in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The conclusion is that the effects of such a change of technology are not sufficiently illustrated. Precisely the reliability and ease of disrupting a digital radio system than an analogue is an important factor in the reconstruction of the total defence that began under the alliance government. This is another important aspect in these troubled times. Mr President, I would like to As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, we propose that the review report on digital radio be added to the dossier with two contributions. Based on the government's response, it cannot be excluded that digitisation of terrestrial radio is still the way forward. It can be brought up to date in the future. It is good that the government is following international developments in this area, including in our neighbourhood in Norway, where it intends to make the technology shift in 2017. A contribution is that the Government does not put the issue on ice but highlights and investigates the issue taking into account the comments and recommendations that the Swedish National Audit Office so creditably highlights in the report. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the Constitutional Committee's report No 6.
i-278af95acb98fc01-334	Mr President, I would like to Less than a year ago, as late as March 2015, there was broad political support to phase out fm and move to DAB. In the hearing of the parties made at the time, the Green Party was the only party that had a different view. It now looks like there has been a complete political reversal of the issue. Now we have a united KU that supports the government's letter, meaning that we are not moving forward in the near future with the phasing out of Fm broadcasts and the development of DAB technology. Of course, the choice of broadcasting technology is not an ideological issue either. It is a technical and economic issue in which we can look very carefully at the actual effects of one technology and the other from a technical and an economic perspective. The report that the Constitutional Committee has considered is, as has been said, the result of the Swedish National Audit Office's review. At the same time, however, the government has been far-sighted enough to also summarise the consultation session that was carried out on the investigation appointed by the previous government. The consultation exercise showed very clearly that so many remaining issues were to be resolved that the option to proceed with the timing proposed in the investigation was simply not possible. It wasn't a reasonable option. What remained as an alternative for the government was, in that case, to set up further investigations or to wait and do nothing at the moment, but instead to see what is happening internationally. As mentioned earlier, things are happening in the world around us. Some countries now choose to test the DAB technology. Other countries choose not to. The latter option was then preferable, not least to clarify whether there is a demand from households for a switch to DAB technology. Initiating such a transition and not meeting it with a demand from households would not make any sense. As Berit Högman mentioned, there are many advantages to digital technology, but reach is not one of them. There analogue technology is clearly beneficial, simply because a message can still be discerned even if the analogue signal gets worse and worse with increased distance and even when the noise level is relatively high. It is still possible to perceive the message in the broadcast. Digital technology, on the other hand, is cutting. It goes from a very good sound quality to not being a signal at all. Anyone who has had a scratchy LP and a scratchy CD realizes that difference very easily. The scratchy LP can be played. Sure, it's loud and loud, but you can hear the music anyway. The scratchy CD, on the other hand, cannot be played at all. This is not a theoretical question. Achieving adequate surface coverage throughout our country is an important issue. We must be able to get important messages out, not only to Sweden's households but also in the outer archipelago or in the mountain areas. It is not enough to build a DAB network to cover all our households in the country. We must also be able to broadcast radio throughout the geographical area. That's where the fm is preferable. The Swedish Armed Forces' referrals have, of course, been absolutely decisive and have weighed very heavily in the government's position. The fact that a transition to DAB is not at hand now does not mean that we lack other EU policy challenges for radio. Commercial radio is now asking for national FM channels, and Swedish Radio is asking for the possibility to count what is published on the web within the framework of the broadcasting license. Just as we have achieved political agreement on the DAB issue, I hope that in the future we will also have political consensus on these issues. I call for the proposal of the Constitutional Committee to be endorsed in the report.
i-278af95acb98fc01-346	Mr President, I would like to We have discussed in the Constitutional Committee the Government's letter on how it views the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the DAB radio, i.e. the proposal for digitisation of terrestrial radio. The proposal for a shift from terrestrial analogue audio radio to terrestrial digital audio radio was presented by a government investigation. A changeover plan was then made, which was submitted by Digital Radiocoordination in December 2014. According to the proposal, the switchover to digital broadcasting would have been completed in such a way that the Fm broadcasts would be switched off by 2022 or by 2024, when at least half the population of the country had acquired DAB radios. The proposal has been supported and, as I see it, has still been supported by Swedish Radio and by private media companies who want to be able to broadcast more radio. The advantages highlighted are, among other things, that more channels for broadcasting the radio will be available in this system and that the transmission costs will be lower. In the UK and Norway, the introduction of DAB radio is ongoing. In the 2016 budget proposal, the Government highlighted the outcome of the consultation on Digital Radio Coordination's proposals. There were many objections and unresolved issues. The government was therefore not prepared to proceed with implementation. However, the government states that it wants to follow developments in other countries, and it does not rule out the question being raised again. When the government left the budget bill, the National Audit Office's report on digital radio had as an important basis for not introducing digital radio. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that a shift to terrestrial digital radio has significant risks both in terms of technology and listening. The Swedish National Audit Office also points out in the report that Swedish Radio may not be credited with software services via the Internet. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the government should consider modernising the provisions of the Freedom of Expression Basic Act as the internet is expected to become a large part of the media society, media consumption, in the future. Mr President, I would like to In the Constitutional Committee, we highlight the government's statement that the issue of digitisation of terrestrial radio may be brought up to date, and we think it is good that the government intends to follow international developments in this area.
i-278af95acb98fc01-351	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Liberals, we would like to stress the importance of the position that the committee is now taking on the letter from the government. It is, of course, very important to continue to follow developments internationally. But it is also extremely important to keep doors open, to acknowledge developments and to follow developments. That is why we would like to make some clarifications and comments on our part. Mr President, I would like to It can be noted that the situation for the future distribution of Swedish radio is very unclear after the government's decision, and the uncertainty in the whole industry and among all the actors is very great. As everyone knows, private radio has been allocated 21 national channels in a digital terrestrial network while the government wants to wait on this issue. This, of course, makes the situation quite untenable. The private radio has now asked for a delay in starting because of the unclear situation. Digitalisation of Swedish radio's terrestrial network is probably the single most important issue in the industry and the future of all radio companies. It must be pointed out, however, that political agreement on the letter and the treatment in the KU is not the same as agreement on the outlook for the future. In view of the fact that the private radio's fm state expires in 2018, a change in the permits that will give private radio about the same space as today, i.e. three national channels, is now being prepared. This should be compared to the 21 in a digital network that the private radio has already been authorised to broadcast in. But Sweden's Radio also needs more channels to avoid all the channel crashes that are happening today and to be able to develop its offering. This is something that we actually need to acknowledge if we mean something about safeguarding a strong public service. The situation of radio in Sweden is difficult in this area, both for public service radio and for private radio, compared with, for example, the situation in Norway and the United Kingdom, which has been mentioned here in the speaker's chair, which has already expanded its digital networks. And it must be added that much of Europe is on its way. The availability of a sufficient number of national channels is simply lacking in Sweden. Everyone benefits from a wider and freer range of radios with more channels, more competition and more voices, not least democracy. Mr President, I would like to Another point is worth pointing out: During the time that the government will now follow developments in the rest of Europe, it is important that the frequency space reserved for the digital terrestrial network in Sweden is not limited by filling it with other things. This would hinder future expansion, and then we will stand on another roll-over in the future. In other words, Mr President, it is not only crowded in the air. It's full. Today's technology has reached the end of the road. Without locking ourselves to the exact version of new technology we are about to have, the path to tomorrow's radio must now be mapped out. Open doors are important, as the committee says. But even more important is to step out of the room and out into reality. The question has to be taken further.
i-QE7UEuhZGvFxhMZPJv4Fx	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is therefore about the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 7, which deals with the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Vattenfall and the energy transition, as well as the government's letter on the report, and eight demands for exercise from the general exercise time on Vattenfall AB. Initially, the Swedish National Audit Office describes the background and reasons for the review and its structure as having examined Vattenfall's ability to become a competitive and leading company in the energy transition, thereby contributing to the EU's climate and energy goals, and whether the company can reach its environmental sustainability goals. The review covers the period 2010 – 2014. It probably deserves to be repeated that the review covers precisely that period of time, that is, 2010 – 2014, and the government that was then responsible for the governance and management of the state-owned energy company Vattenfall AB. Mr President, I would like to The energy market, and hence the tension of energy policy, has undergone a significant change since 2010, both in a Swedish and in a European perspective. This applies and affects not least Vattenfall as a company. Among other things, as a consequence of the financial crisis and recession that characterized Europe and Sweden so significantly from 2008 onwards, the energy market in Sweden, in Europe and in the world was affected and changed in the long term – perhaps forever. The market has also changed by the fact that more and more countries in our vicinity have changed their energy policy with an increased focus on more renewable energy. A state-of-the-art company like Vattenfall is of course an important factor and actor in energy policy development, both now and in the future, in Sweden but also in the future Nordic and European energy market. How Vattenfall AB is managed and managed is therefore an important and central issue in several respects. Mr President, I would like to To an almost astonishing extent, what characterises the Swedish National Audit Office's report is the interpretation that is made about the division of roles between the government as owner, Vattenfall's board and the operational management of the company. On point after point, one highlights how one sees this division of roles now and what one believes it should look like. In its letter to the Riksdag, the Government, for its part, presents its views on the Swedish National Audit Office's report in general and on these specific points of view in particular. The Government does not share the Swedish National Audit Office's view on the division of roles between the state as owner, the company's board of directors and operational management in terms of operational targets, such as the selection and formulation of sustainability goals, the investment horizon, joint ownership of companies, research and the use of dividends for renewable energy. Nor does the Swedish National Audit Office's view of the Government Office's internal processes for knowledge acquisition and independent analyses or the government's follow-up to Vattenfall's mission share the Swedish National Audit Office's view and subsequent proposals. Mr President, I would like to Fortunately, there is a very clear majority in committee that shares the government's view in this regard. There is a broad consensus on how the state should exercise its ownership role and how the division of roles should look like. This is also reflected in ownership directives, in state ownership management documents and in the articles of association. In some areas, however, the Government shares the views of the Swedish National Audit Office in its letter. This applies above all to the government's reporting back to the Riksdag. The Government also intends to take measures to improve and continuously report the company's strategies and development to the Riksdag through the committees. This is welcomed by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Mr President, I would like to As far as the general exercise period is concerned, the claims relating primarily to the administration of Vattenfall are essentially covered by the letter submitted by the Government. In the same way, it is with regard to the view of Vattenfall's role in the energy system. As regards the important role that Vattenfall plays in this context and how it should be dealt with, among other things, within the mandate that the Energy Commission has to work on, there is a broad consensus within the committee. With regard to the view of Vattenfall's behaviour on the European energy market, the difficulties facing virtually all large, mature European energy companies at present are evident. Both the government and Vattenfall's management have, in their various roles, clearly expressed a business sound redirection towards an increased focus on renewable energy. A number of measures have also been taken to this end. Let me just mention the fact that two new board members have been appointed in this area as a way to broaden the company's competence, in order to enable Vattenfall to live up to being a leading company in the energy transition.
i-278af95acb98fc01-372	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 from the Moderates, the Centers, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats. We are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Vattenfall and the energy transition. You have just heard the previous speaker tell us about this. There are a number of issues that have been raised from the Swedish National Audit Office, which has been compiled with recommendations and to which the Government has then given its answer in a letter. On the basis of this material, the Committee on Economic Affairs has written its report. There are parts in the report where the Swedish National Audit Office describes improvements that I agree with. One of these is that the follow-up to the Riksdag can be improved. Here the Swedish National Audit Office talks about more transparency, detail and high quality accounting. It's good. It's good. It's good order. The important work done by the Alliance Government over eight years to improve the governance of Vattenfall AB based on sustainability and governance, we want to look forward, and we follow the issue. In 2007, Sweden was the first country in the world to introduce GRI reporting: global reporting in nitiative, an international standard for sustainability reporting based on challenges and how to act to meet the guidelines in the ownership policy. This has created awareness and a good basis for continued sustainability work in the company and in all companies. In 2012, new steps were taken to strengthen sustainability as an important concern. The government then raised the issue in corporate governance by commissioning the Boards to develop strategic sustainability goals. By clarifying their commitment to key sustainability issues, the companies show that they are modern organisations. The sustainability work thus aims both to ensure decent business and to maintain or increase the value of Swedish companies. These presentations also describe such issues as ethics, gender equality and environmental policy and environmental management systems in accordance with IFRS, which stands for international financial r eporting s tandards. Mr President, I would like to We are pleased that the committee as a whole supports the motion on which Vattenfall is a key player in the future Swedish electricity supply and that we, as a united committee, can announce to the government that it should make it clear in an appropriate way that the parliamentary Energy Commission should also discuss issues such as Vattenfall's role in the energy system and the company's mission and objectives. Within the framework of the Swedish National Audit Office's report, however, there are parts that go into what Vattenfall should do in its role as a company, where the description is made in a way that means that you are in on Vattenfall's management and talk about the process that is an internal work in a company. It talks about shaping a target for becoming a competitive and leading company in the energy transition and implementing a strategic, long-term planning for how the company will get there. The Swedish National Audit Office then writes that planning should be broken down in business planning, partly at business area level and partly within the company's various development departments. It is not a matter for politics to interfere in. We have heard Ingemar Nilsson say the same thing before. A company like Vattenfall is governed by owner directives and company rules, but the answer from the Swedish National Audit Office answers questions about how the company should act. It can't be done. Therefore, we share the view the government has in the parts that are about distinguishing between what the company does, what the board does and the goals set by the government. For example, there is not an environmental part of the assignment that is independent from the part that is commercial. The ownership policy must also be followed, and the company must be evaluated based on how it achieves its goals. How the company works is a matter for the company and not for politics. A target was set for Vattenfall and an intention was announced to use the EU 2020 target as a reference point for monitoring Vattenfall's role in the energy transition. That was also decided. It is important, Mr President, to have set goals to work towards. Vattenfall has also mentioned this today, when it presented its results for 2015. On the way forward, Vattenfall's road has changed, just like for many other energy companies. It has been radical – from working in Sweden to becoming an international player in the 1990s with investments in Germany in particular, a shift in energy policy, global changes in views on climate and energy, and choices to manage their own energy supply for citizens, industry and industry. This has placed great demands on base power that does not make the system shaky. Skate gas from the United States has come to play a role, as has the dependence on coal power and gas. Vattenfall's steps to be able to act and navigate in this world as a sustainable company in government ownership with continued major challenges ahead play a role. The company invests in renewables but carries with it its history. At present, Vattenfall has signalled further nuclear reactors that could be forced to close. This brings costs and concerns, and the government's proposal for a tax increase in a situation where electricity prices are low has not made the way easier. Mr President, I would like to We will follow Vattenfall on its way forward and see how to deal with this. We had an interpellation debate yesterday. It becomes an important context in a chain when you talk about the conditions of industry and industry in Sweden.
i-278af95acb98fc01-387	Mr President, I would like to The previous speakers have well explained what we are debating here today, so perhaps no closer presentation is needed. Vattenfall is a company wholly owned by the state, and it plays an important role in the Swedish power system and the Swedish energy supply. In addition to this activity, the company has acquired and constructed facilities in other countries for several years, which has led to the company becoming one of Europe's largest energy companies. It is an adventure that has recently become an increasingly costly story for the company's owners. Although the circumstances could have been more pleasant from a purely economic point of view, it is nevertheless welcome to have probable ownership changes where many of the installations to which the company is the owner, mainly in terms of fossil energy, will be divested. The Swedish Democrats' view of Vattenfall's role is that the focus should be shifted from the expansion that has taken place abroad to primarily protecting the Swedish electricity supply from a long-term perspective. During the current term of office, two of the seven reactors operated in Sweden have been closed down by the company. The analysis work on replacement reactors started in 2012 has also been discontinued. As regards the interruption of the analysis of replacement reactors, the Government states in its letter that Vattenfall has taken that decision on its own initiative. This is something that has been the subject of debate in the past and is therefore nothing new in this context, but I honestly think that we can reflect on how independent such a decision has been. If you go back in time, you can see that Vattenfall in the autumn of 2014, in September, released a press release with the title The aim of the work would be to learn about new safety and environmental requirements for future reactors, to look at how different possible technologies can live up to the forthcoming requirements, to examine the economic conditions for nuclear power in the future and also to seek permission for replacement reactors. A month after that time in September, the government released its budget proposal, which made it very clear what it thought about Vattenfall's ongoing analyses of the use of replacement reactors. In the budget bill we were able to read that in Vattenfall's plans to prepare for the construction of new nuclear power are discontinued. It is only after that, a month later, that Vattenfall's CEO Magnus Hall announces that the investigation work will be stopped. The idea that this decision should have been made in some kind of vacuum is quite astonishing as the government's view was in no way misunderstood. In its letter, the Government refers to the suspension of the analysis work pending the outcome of the parliamentary Energy Commission. In view of the long lead times involved in the possible establishment of a new nuclear reactor, further work on analysing the conditions had also been useful for the Energy Commission. It is the view of the Swedish Democrats that Vattenfall should not be subject to such restrictions, whether it be to apply, investigate or prepare for the construction of new nuclear power. We are also presenting this in the report this year. On the other hand, the government has not been as careful as regards other measures that have been implemented and that have a long-term impact on both the company and the entire power sector itself. It has not even considered first addressing the measures in the Energy Commission and waiting to implement them. This applies, for example, to the increase in the impact tax, which, while contributing more to the margin of the considerations that Vattenfall has made for its reactors, has an impact. There wasn't that target. The increase in ambition in the electricity certification system is another measure that has affected the long-term conditions for the company and also the power sector in general and where the aim has not been to raise it first in the Energy Commission. A much smaller part of Vattenfall's activities that we in the Swedish Democrats have addressed in our motion and which is also included in the report is the company's purchase of surplus electricity from micro-production to rude overprices on the market. It is something that in turn results in a lower profit for the company and thus gives smaller dividends to the owner state to the extent that it can be given. This has been justified by the fact that at the time there was uncertainty about the design of a tax reduction system for micro-produced electricity and that there was uncertainty as to when such a system could be put in place. However, even after its introduction, activities have continued. The Swedish Democrats have, tax reduction systems or not, very difficult to see why a small group of customers who are obviously sufficiently resourceful to invest in their own production facilities and who have the right housing conditions, for example, should be subsidised by Vattenfall's other customers and why these customers at the expense of the others should be replaced by strong overprices for something that is more or less a hobby business. With this, Mr President, I would like to endorse reservation 2 in the report.
i-278af95acb98fc01-398	Mr President, I would like to Vattenfall is one of the largest companies in the state and a very important part of energy policy. The Swedish National Audit Office's report has reviewed Vattenfall's activities during the period 2010–2014 and has submitted a number of proposals for improvement supported by everyone in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Government has announced measures that will be taken for improved and continuous reporting of the company's work. A new scandal such as the Nuon affair must be avoided, and the work of transparency must be improved. Despite an examination in the Constitutional Committee, it is still not clear who did what. This must not happen when the state acts. Government control of Vattenfall takes place through the so-called owner directives. The ownership directives that govern Vattenfall today were decided by the Riksdag in 2010, by a majority of the bourgeois parties. The Green Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party, then proposed a clearer climate governance but was voted down. Today's report contains proposals for changes in the governance of Vattenfall, but it states in the committee's documentation that there is currently no parliamentary majority for amended ownership directives. Mr President, I would like to I'm in favour of the motivational reservation. The Green Party wants as much lignite as possible to stay in the ground. In October 2014, Vattenfall's Board of Directors decided to initiate a process with a new ownership structure for lignite operations. Since then, there have been speculations in the media as to whether someone will make a bid to buy the business and, if so, at what price. If it becomes necessary for Vattenfall to carry out a divestment involving large values, it is the Board's responsibility to initiate a so-called ownership coordination with the Government. Ownership coordination means that both the board and the owner can agree on a possible bid. At present, there is no such ownership coordination to take a position on. In the meantime, major changes are taking place in lignite operations in Germany. I welcome the German Government's decision to phase out the oldest lignite power plants in order to reduce climate emissions. From 2017, five lignite power plants will stop selling electricity to the market and instead be part of a temporary power reserve before they are finally decommissioned in 2021. A number of Vattenfall's lignite activities will be included in that phase-out. Brunkol is the electricity generation that has the greatest climate impact, and in view of the recent gathering of world leaders around a global climate agreement, it is important that fossil energy is phased out. The most important guarantee for reducing lignite is that each country decides that such production should be reduced and phased out regardless of who owns it. Within the framework of existing owner directives, the government has actively worked with Vattenfall's governance and transition towards a higher share of renewable energy. The company operates in a rapidly changing market, and an active owner is needed. After the election, a government group was created, led by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, who is responsible for the administration of Vattenfall. The Government Group also consists of Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson, Minister for Energy Ibrahim Baylan and Minister for Financial Markets and Consumer Affairs Per Bolund. One of the most important tools for the governance of state-owned companies is the recruitment of board members. The development of the energy market, as well as the challenge of achieving the company's strategic sustainability goals in a time of change, place high demands on increased knowledge of the energy sector, technology understanding and innovation for the transition. The state as owner therefore decided last year to elect two new members of Vattenfall's Board: Tomas Kåberger and Vik toria Bergman, who have high expertise in renewable energy and sustainable entrepreneurship. The Social Democrats and the Environmental Party stated in the Government Agreement that a holistic approach is needed to make Vattenfall a leader in the transformation of the energy system towards a higher share of renewable energy. The future of the company lies in renewable energy and not in coal and gas. The expansion of lignite allowed by Fredrik Reinfeldt has now been interrupted. In a debate article on 30 November 2015, Vattenfall's CEO Magnus Hall confirmed his view on the company's future. He writes that during the next five-year period Vattenfall intends to enable investments in renewable production corresponding to over SEK 50 billion. The aim is for Vattenfall to be one of the largest producers of renewable energy in Europe within ten years and to triple the installed wind power capacity. It is an important step that Vattenfall expresses that with the right conditions there are good opportunities for Sweden to have one to 100 percent renewable energy production within 25 years. I think it is possible much sooner than that, Mr President, but it makes a big difference in the talks about the energy system of the future that Vattenfall, too, is now talking about 100% renewable energy.
i-278af95acb98fc01-410	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Lise Nordin the following: when we come to the day when it will be said that perhaps we need ownership coordination because of the situation in Germany, how will the Green Party act then? Are you interested in a sale at all, or how do you view the question?
i-278af95acb98fc01-411	Mr President, I would like to As I said, we do not know whether there will be a bid and, if so, at what price. But if it comes to the situation that the government, together with Vattenfall's board of directors, will discuss whether to say yes or no to a bid, it is within the framework of the existing ownership directives that the government can act. The Green Party wishes that the ownership directives were different. When the Parliament decided on the Ownership Directives in 2010, we proposed a clearer climate governance. Since 2010, we have seen that Vattenfall has increased its investment in lignite. The Green Party has on all occasions voted against this expansion since Vattenfall started its lignite business. In the context of the Ownership Directives, the State can assess whether a possible bid is commercial or not. However, as the ownership directives are designed today, it does not seem possible to say no to any sale for climate reasons. The Green Party's wish is for lignite operations to be phased out and not sold. I regret that there is no parliamentary majority for a clearer climate governance. The four bourgeois parties have all expressed their desire to sell the business. As a result, I can see that the climate governance that is needed does not exist today. If there were signals that more parties in the Riksdag wanted to review the ownership directive for clearer climate control, the Green Party would welcome it.
i-278af95acb98fc01-415	Mr President, I would like to You can stop saying that there are owner directives that make you unable to do anything, or you can take on the role of influencing owner directives if you want something else. Is the Green Party actively working to link the ownership directives to the climate and remove commercialism? I'd like to know.
i-278af95acb98fc01-417	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party already made proposals in 2010 on how we felt that the owner directives for Vattenfall needed to look like so that the company would be one of the leading players in the energy transition. The bourgeois government, of which Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson's party was a part, voted against clearer climate control. The Green Party would like to see clearer climate governance. If there is a signal that more parties want to do so, I and the Green Party welcome it. I note that during the last time Fredrik Reinfeldt was Prime Minister, Vattenfall expanded its lignite expansion. It has now been discontinued after the government has made it clear that lignite is not the business that it believes Vattenfall will expand within. On the contrary, Vattenfall should now be a player who invests in the renewable energy that we see growing fastest in the world.
i-278af95acb98fc01-420	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by calling for the Alliance's reservation 1. The history of the state-owned company Vattenfall began 100 years ago. Then hydroelectric power was the focus, and hydroelectric plants were often built in a wasteland. Construction required many construction workers, and this led to the rapid growth of many communities around them. Schools, shops and sports facilities were built in the settlers' communities. But, unfortunately, when the power plants were completed, the communities were mostly dismantled again. Today, Vattenfall, which is 100% owned by the state, employs around 30 000 people. The company is one of Europe's largest electricity producers and the largest heat producer. It's in itself a fantastic journey. I would like to say this because in this debate we are happy to lower Vattenfall. There are, of course, challenges with Vattenfall; we should not put that under control. But it is also a fantastic company with a fantastically solid history that we should be proud of. Today we are debating the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Vattenfall and the energy transition. There are also a number of sports about Vattenfall from general exercise time. The committee has proposed, following a follow-up motion by the alliance parties, an announcement to the government on the role of Vattenfall in the energy system. As Vattenfall is a major and central player in the Swedish electricity and energy market, both now and in the future, the government should make it clear in an appropriate way that the Parliamentary Energy Commission should discuss issues related to Vattenfall's role in the energy system and the company's mission and objectives. Mr President, I would like to This means that the government should not make major decisions concerning energy policy alongside the Energy Commission. This, in turn, does not mean, as has sometimes emerged in the media, that the Energy Commission should decide and poke in Vattenfall's day-to-day operations. It is important to make that clear. Mr President, I would like to During the time of the Alliance in government, sustainability goals for state-owned companies were introduced. Today, almost all the 49 companies are working on these goals, which is really good. However, the Swedish National Audit Office shares the Swedish Government's criticism of the lack of reporting back to the Riksdag of how Vattenfall meets its sustainability goals. More transparency and detail are needed here. For example, the question arises as to how Vattenfall contributes to achieving the two-degree target and the EU 2020 target. In addition, Vattenfall does not have an actual environmental sustainability goal despite the fact that the company has high carbon emissions and that the company's mission is to be a leading company in the energy transition. The reduction in emissions in the company's production portfolio is almost all about sales and not about reducing CO2 emissions in the EU through carbon reduction measures. Mr President, I would like to Some of the exercises from general exercise time deal with Vattenfall's activities in the Nordic region and Europe. That is why I want to be clear about the Center Party's line on this. Vattenfall should be the leader in the green transition. Selling European business is a step in the right direction. We've wanted to do that for a long time. Our idea has been that a possible profit should be made for investments in renewable energy. The Center Party does not want Vattenfall and the Swedish state to own and operate coal. That is why we were in a government position to change the ownership directives so that Vattenfall would be one of the leading companies in Europe in terms of renewable energy. The simple answer is that the coal mines should never have been bought. However, it should be borne in mind that the decisions that led to Vattenfall's major investment in German coal power and coal mines were already made in 2006, i.e. when S was operating with the help of MP and, for example, current Minister of Finance Per Bolund was appointed as a political expert in the Government Office with transparency in these matters. There is not so much to do about it now, but it is a matter of selling coal mines in a way that ensures the long-term economy of Vattenfall. As the issue has been delayed, the value of Vattenfall's assets has continued to decline. It is still unclear what the government wants or whether and when they intend to decide on a sale. However, it is important to point out that the sale is ultimately a matter for the board and the owner, and as the rules for the state companies look like, it is the government that is responsible. Any transaction will therefore not be examined in the Riksdag. In practice, our ability to influence is very small. Mr President, I would like to Let me point out that it is Germany that decides on its energy policy, not Vattenfall and not the Swedish Parliament. We in Sweden would not think it was okay that France decided that we should have more nuclear power plants or that Russia decided that we should make major investments in gas. In the same way, Germany must be allowed to decide on its energy policy. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about micro-generation of electricity. Me and the Center Party are pleased that Vattenfall encourages small-scale electricity generation. The company buys surplus electricity from microproducers, and this is one way of supporting small-scale renewable electricity production. If we are to achieve a society of 100% renewable energy production, we also need to encourage individuals to be more involved in contributing.
i-278af95acb98fc01-438	Mr President, I would like to A little self-criticism would be in place with representatives of the alliance government. There are headlines that the government has lost control of the energy giant, but at the same time it is not more than six years since the biggest flop in Vattenfall's history, Nuon. What happened when the Minister for Economic Affairs tried to inform the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, we do not know because the hearing became as it was. Mr President, I would like to As we now debate the Swedish National Audit Office's report and the Government's letter, one of the Left Party's reservations is particularly important, namely the one about lignite operations in Germany. No one has missed the news in Svenska Dagbladet's nutrition supplement about the bid for Vattenfall's lignite operations. As I understand it, it also contains some sugary bids on the hydroelectric power plants and other things. Vattenfall went out with an advertisement, and interested parties would look at the evidence. That was last September. Vattenfall offered them non-binding bids for the lignite business of Vattenfall in eastern Germany. It was highlighted that the business generated revenues of SEK 21 billion in 2014. Although the operating costs amounted to half of this EUR 21 billion, it should still have been EUR 10 billion in net revenue in 2014. Everyone knows the price trend for electricity, so revenues have probably fallen since 2014. One must nevertheless react to the fact that the commandment in Svenska Dagbladet's article is very low. The fact that these power plants are even under discussion is even more remarkable. The fact that they don't care about the climate has taught me, but you don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand that there is no business in this either. So there seems to be no one here. The media spoke of a price tag of over 20 billion, perhaps up to 30. It is limited what you can take up in six minutes, but I intend to highlight a few things that are affected in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. The Left Party agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office that the Government should follow up Vattenfall's mandate in the Articles of Association as a whole and clarify how the Company should interpret the mandate to ensure that the Company is a leader in the energy transition and constitutes a reasonable risk for the State. Here is a clear dividing line in the Left Party's view of what could be counted as market returns. It is about being the leading company in the transition to a sustainable and environmentally renewable energy system instead of being one of the companies leading the development. Of course it makes a difference which barometer you measure the yield with. If the maximum return on quarterly reports is the starting point for all activities, we know which measures will have to stand down. In fact, some investments can be defended in the transition to sustainability, although they would not produce results in the short term. In this respect, it is a good thing that I am in favour of Amendment No 3, paragraph 4 of the report, and particularly of Amendment No 1 in the motion. With what I started with on lignite operations and with what the Swedish National Audit Office points out about how Vattenfall contributes to the EU 2020 targets and the EU's adopted 2050 targets, it will be difficult for the government to demonstrate how the company's sales of lignite operations would contribute to these targets. Add to this the new targets following the COP 21 meeting in Paris, where ambitions were further strengthened to 1.5 degrees of warming. After the climate summit, the following was read on the Government's website: The difficult work on reducing climate emissions remains. Sweden will continue to show leadership through concrete measures at home in broad collaboration with all social actors. We will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries and through it inspire and drive others," says Åsa Romson. ..................................................... Then I just wonder still: Do you want to decide whether Vattenfall's lignite operations should be sold or phased out under the direction of Water Falls is taken at home? Mr President, I would like to It would be appropriate here for me to ask for the approval of reservation 4, point 5 of the report. As regards Vattenfall's lawsuit against the German state for its democratic decision to phase out nuclear power, account can be taken of what is now being discovered in the media about Vattenfall's Moorburg power plant. There, the German authorities tried to tighten up the environmental requirements at Vattenfall's plant. At that time, Vattenfall sued the Germans via ISDS regarding the tougher environmental requirements, and eventually they were reconciled in a secret agreement. What is happening now is that the European Commission chooses to sue the Germans precisely in relation to these demands, where they probably had to surrender to Vattenfall. If the European Court of Justice takes the Commission's line, Vattenfall is not affected by the lawsuit itself, but by the loss of production. There will be restrictions on cooling water, as is the case in this case. My firm view is that the rule of law such as Germany and Sweden should not need arbitration panels to resolve disputes. We in the Left Party do not think so.
i-278af95acb98fc01-453	Mr President, I would like to As we know, Vattenfall is the largest state-owned company in terms of turnover, and the company has the greatest financial impact on the government's portfolio. That is why the Swedish National Audit Office's review of Vattenfall's activities is of course particularly important, and it is welcome that we in the committee unanimously support an announcement on this issue. Vattenfall faces major challenges in reducing CO2 emissions. We are all aware of the political debates that Vattenfall has been the subject of during the last parliamentary term. The company continues to top the political discussion. Last night we had a debate on nuclear power in this House, where Vattenfall's announcement and decision-making were central elements. The purpose of the Swedish National Audit Office's review is, as we know, to focus on government governance and Vattenfall's sustainability goals. I would like to highlight what the Alliance writes in its reservation about the importance of transparency and good control of state-owned companies. We share the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism of the government regarding the lack of reporting back to Parliament and believe that the government should be more transparent, comprehensive and qualitative in its accounting. This is an important part of the Swedish parliament's ability to assess whether the company is a competitive and leading company in the energy transition and thereby contribute to achieving the EU's climate and energy goals. Work on sustainability within state-owned companies was improved in 2007 by the Alliance Government. As the first country in the world, mentioned earlier, Sweden systematized this work according to the generally accepted standard of global reporting in nitiative. We believe that, in accordance with our reservation, the Riksdag should encourage the Government to improve its reporting on Vattenfall and continue its work on sustainable entrepreneurship. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 1. Mr President, I would like to As a large state-owned company, Vattenfall will of course contribute to the EU's climate and energy objectives. The Swedish National Audit Office's overall conclusion is that Vattenfall has not designed and the government has not steered towards a carbon dioxide target that leads to reduced emissions. There is room here for us in the Alliance to be self-critical. This also applies to the Liberals, then the People's Party. We could have done more to steer Vattenfall in the right direction. The climate threat is now even higher on the agenda than it was then, and it has been barely two months since the Paris Summit. Of course, a large Swedish company operating on the European market must aim to contribute in the long term to the climate goals that we in the EU have set ourselves. That is why this is a central issue for Parliament to follow. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that Vattenfall's original plan was to reduce CO2 emissions through, among other things, carbon storage and partly through the sale of coal power plants. Today, conditions have changed, and the main strategy has been to sell German coal power plants. The basis for sales has mainly been that the company should have its own production portfolio that is fossil-free. However, we must not forget that the environmental aspect and the question of long-term sustainability should also be included in a position on sales. As the Swedish National Audit Office points out, there is currently a risk that Vattenfall will sell its German coal power plants at a time that does not give maximum sales value in order to achieve its financial exposure target. Mr President, I would like to In May, I visited one of the German coal power plants, Welzow-Süd-Süd, where I had to go down to the coal mine. I got a clear picture of the lively German debate on coal power and also of Vattenfall as owner, a picture that is very positive in these regions. You see Vattenfall as a constructive partner and a popular employer. The same does not apply to those companies that we have seen so far interested in buying coal mines, far from it – they are companies that do not have a good reputation. Mr President, I would like to The climate issue must be above all else. The perspective must not only be limited to Sweden and Vattenfall's own ownership, but must be a European climate perspective. I can only agree with the Swedish National Audit Office when it calls on the government to be better prepared to manage the financial risk, whether it concerns continued ownership or a sale of German coal power. Today's news of new billion losses for Vattenfall shows how topical this issue is.
i-278af95acb98fc01-469	Mr President, I would like to I tend to catch cold every time we have a debate here. I don't know if that's a sign of anything in particular. What we are debating here today, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on Vattenfall and the energy transition, is particularly interesting today when Vattenfall has released its 2015 financial statement. Although we should not discuss exactly that, it is only to be regretted that the Swedish National Audit Office's report was submitted in April last year. It came to Parliament in October, which means that we are almost a whole year behind in the discussion itself. Mr President, I would like to It would be very worthwhile if we could speed up the processes when it comes to the handling of the Swedish National Audit Office's reports, so that we stay up-to-date and can relate to this year. Vattenfall's prospects for becoming a competitive and leading company in the energy transition have been reviewed. With the size of the company, it is clear that it has a special responsibility. You can't get away from that. We should of course discuss Vattenfall and its governance, management and development within the Energy Commission, because the company is also a major carrier of nuclear power and is going to switch to more sustainable forms of energy. It may be particularly interesting to look at the Swedish National Audit Office's writing regarding the decommissioning of lignite operations in Germany. They say that the government is not prepared for the financial risk of any sale or continued ownership. I do not know if anyone else has reflected on that sentence, but I find it particularly interesting. It will be wrong whether we have it left or if we sell. Okay. But we can say that we own the business. Then what are we gonna do with it? Something has to be done. We do not think it is a good thing that it is in Vattenfall's portfolio, but we obviously do not think that there should be a need for preparedness for this. Should we continue to think that we probably have no financial space for this? This is what the Swedish National Audit Office says, for example when it comes to the knowledge of what possible financial space is available to cover the costs of more research into carbon reduction measures in existing plants or any loss on sales. We can see that it would have been worth a debate of its own on what has actually been done over the past year. They got the knowledge already in April last year. What has been done since then? It almost sounds as if this is the time for an interpellation, Mr President. It is about being able to evaluate the buyers who may be supposed to take over the lignite business. There I have called for some kind of due diligence, which one has in all other types of entrepreneurship when evaluating companies, not least through CSR work or whatever it may be. It is also the right of sellers to do so. Why is no one doing such values then, when it does so in all other contexts? It is not only the case that a buyer can make demands on what is sold, but it is also a question of being able to do the opposite. I think that would have been interesting. Not least maybe it's about the knowledge of the government. I don't know. But it would be interesting to hear how you think about it. Nevertheless, Vattenfall's Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the company's operations are conducted in accordance with the objectives set by the owner, i.e. the State. However, as I have pointed out in other contexts, the board also has an overcoat. Maybe it's a good idea when it comes to keeping the company warm. Otherwise, however, I wonder what the role of the Government Group is when one looks at the governance and management of a more energy efficient way of working and acquiring new businesses. If we are just briefly, Mr President, amuse ourselves with looking at emissions and the sustainability targets that Vattenfall has, we can see that what has decreased is nuclear power, that hydropower has increased, that wind power has increased a little, but that fossil fuel has also increased. So you pull down in one place but still don't get rid of what gives the most emissions. Emissions are to be reduced through sales, it is very clear. That leaves more question marks than exclamation marks in the conclusions of the audit report. Are the goals really achieved by the way in which they are worked? I look forward to the Energy Commission actually discussing these issues and coming back to Parliament with clarifications in the future through the report's announcement.
i-278af95acb98fc01-484	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps the word justice is the most abused word in politics. It is used for a variety of things and not infrequently to highlight the excellence of its own politics, but then almost and most often as a subjective concept rather than an objective one. Justice – objective justice – is, in my view, largely about being able to get right when one has the right, to have one's case tried in court. It is a right that is as old as the idea of the rule of law, and it is enshrined in many bodies. The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights includes this right, as does both the European Convention and our Swedish Constitution. The theoretical possibility of having one's case brought before a court is easy to get in place. Those are words on paper. But the fact that it really works in practice and that everyone can feel that you can actually get right when you're right is another thing. The Center Party welcomes the proposals put forward by the government to streamline and improve the judicial process. To some extent, the proposal concerns increased opportunities to exploit modern technology. We believe that we can and should go further. It is already possible today to determine cases on the documents, so there is no odd bird in Swedish law. The proposal also extends the possibility of this procedure with regard to the Court of Appeal and criminal proceedings. We believe that there would be great value in packaging the possibility of judging acts in what we call e-courts. Through an educational web interface or through an app, you should be able to submit the necessary documents and have your case examined by a law-abiding judge who values facts and judges based on it. These are simple cases where everyone agrees on all the initial values of the case, but where a legal assessment is required and where a judgment is needed. For the private individual or small businessman who doesn't do this every day, it probably feels overwhelming to start a process, with all that it means in terms of spent time, energy and even money, to drag someone into the box, even if you are sure you are right. The E ‐ Court could be the solution that gives people and businesses the right to justice. Even amounts that may be considered small from a court point of view are quite large for many people. Mr President, I would like to There is also such consideration for living and working far from the nearest district court. Similarity before the law is a central principle, but if you actually have a great deal of trouble getting to the courtroom, there is likely to be more doubt about seeking your right. The same applies to all people around our elongated country who have physical disabilities. As a counter-argument, I am told that this possibility already exists, that cases can be decided on today. Yes, it exists – for those who are familiar, for those who are on the inside of this and who already know. It is also available for those who are settled in cash and have the resources for good advice. I also note that a couple of my fellow and counter-debaters here today are some of the country's most highly qualified lawyers and lawmakers. But the very idea of legal justice is that it should apply to everyone. E ‐ courts will not solve all problems for all but could make a big difference for many. I therefore support my reservation.
i-278af95acb98fc01-495	Mr President, I would like to The courts shall have legal certainty and effectiveness. This time-- I think we all agree-- we're discussing efficiency. The bill presented by the government in the bill A more modern trial II aims to streamline and improve the court process. Among other things, the proposals make it possible to better adapt the handling of cases and cases to the circumstances of the individual case. Several proposals also aim to create the conditions for a more effective procedure in the Court of Appeal based on the focus in the administration of justice being at first instance. As the Government points out, the proposals lead, among other things, to a more efficient operation of the courts, for example by shortening the length of proceedings and reducing the costs of suspension of proceedings. Citizens' demands for redress within a reasonable period of time can be better met. I note that no motions have been made with legislative amendments that are against the government's legislative proposals. The Government's legislative proposals are well designed and should be adopted by the Riksdag. It has been noted that the wording of the proposal for the current version of the legislation contains minor errors. We are correcting this through editorial changes. As we have heard from previous speakers, Mr Hedin, he wants the issue of the introduction of e-courts to be investigated. We in the majority of committees do not think that this issue is the one that is most keen to investigate in order to improve efficiency. In fact, as the honourable Member has said, there are already good opportunities to determine cases on the file. This is also the case to a large extent in several of the target types mentioned in the exercise. It can also be noted that a large part of the communication at the courts is already done by electronic means. This will increase more and more with the Court Data Act that entered into force on 1 January 2016, which aims to ensure that courts are able to deal effectively and legally with and resolve cases and cases with rational and modern computer support while protecting privacy. There is therefore already further opportunity to develop the electronic procedure before the courts. Therefore, there is no reason to make any announcement to the government on the basis of the motions. I support the committee's proposal and reject the reservation.
i-278af95acb98fc01-502	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to be approved. To consider oneself right and to be right are two different things. Maybe you don't realize that if you're a party to a court case. Being able to get right is a question of what can be proved. It is therefore important to have an effective and well-functioning judicial process. The report we are discussing here and now is about changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, complementing the reform that took place in its first step in 2008, a more modern trial. I think one of the most important elements of this supplement is the increased possibility for the courts to make better use of sound and image recordings. There is, in fact, a rather large problem with the cancellation of the main negotiations, which is generally recognised in society. Interrogators, plaintiffs and witnesses report to a hearing that is then cancelled because the defendant does not arrive. If the defendant is detained, this is not a major problem, since there is no choice for the defendant who has to appear at the main hearing. But if the defendant is not in custody, other actors are affected. It may seem unreasonable for witnesses and plaintiffs to appear and be forced to go home and then return, perhaps several times, without the case being decided. This kind of problem usually ends with the defendant being detained. Then it's no longer a problem. According to this proposal, the possibility of taking evidence at a suspended main hearing increases. If you are a plaintiff or a witness, you should be able to provide your information at the time when you actually come to the court and do not have to return at a later date to the same extent as has been the case in the past. This is one way of reducing the negative consequences of cancelled main negotiations. The evidence raised in connection with the cancellation of the main hearing shall be used as a starting point for the main hearing at a later date, but only if further questions do not need to be asked or if there are no special reasons to hold a hearing. It is based on the need to have a fair trial based, inter alia, on Article 6 of the ECHR. There are also other parts of this that are good additions to the original reform. It is about greater opportunities for the Courts of Appeal to decide cases. For example, the parties cannot have a criminal case. If there are conditions for deciding the case without the defendant being present, one can do so, even if a reasoned opinion on why the main hearing should be held should be taken into account. There are also increased opportunities for precedents in the Supreme Court because there is an opportunity to examine certain matters relating to litigation by lifting them directly in the Supreme Court or not having to wait for a process in the Court of Appeal. Finally, I will say that technology-neutral legislation is important. Of course, it is important to take advantage of the opportunities available to determine cases on the file. As a judge, I can say that this has already been done in the courts for a long time. I understand the ambitions expressed by the Center Party. It's a legitimate purpose. However, I do not think there is any reason to go so far as to set up a special e-court.
i-278af95acb98fc01-512	Mr President, I would like to Now that we are going to decide on a more modern trial II – it is actually eight years between trial I and trial II – I am delighted with this broad parliamentary consensus on this issue. A trial is one of the fundamental factors in our society. If you do not feel that a trial is being conducted correctly and that you can rely on the factual treatment of the case, trust in society crumbles. Having familiarized myself with this report, I must say that I very much appreciate this balancing act. This is a bit like changing parliamentary arrangements. It is about modernising but doing so in moderation. It is about moving forward, making it more rational and ensuring that witnesses and others involved in the court do not have to tell the same thing in the same way again. What is said is recorded and can be used. At the same time, it is ensured that when new facts come into being, they can also be changed. It is therefore a question of carefully moving forward and, at the same time, being prepared for renewal. It is this balancing act that I believe is well carried out in this proposal and report. Although I personally agree with much of what Johan Hedin says about e-courts, e-trials and so on, I think it would be going too far today, because it is about a balance between security and renewal. This balance is achieved with this report, otherwise there would be many more motions and counter-proposals in this House today. Taking on board the digital media, sound and image, and using them more widely in courts and also the changes in the Supreme Court's ability to set precedents for different cases earlier and more clearly are fundamental renewals that I think we can all support. That is why I support the proposal in the committee's report. I hope that this will contribute to the efficiency and fairness of Swedish courts.
i-278af95acb98fc01-519	Mr President, I would like to The report on postal issues and basic payment services may not be one of the reports that will attract the most attention in the media and in the press. It is perhaps also not the report that will attract most attention in social media. But for large parts of the country and also for large cities, this plays a very important role. It is a basic public service that we have agreed to be provided. In one of the first parliamentary debates I listened to as a teenager, the very charged issue of the distance between the land boundary and the mailbox was discussed. Something that has stuck in my memory is that I thought at the time that perhaps it was not the most important debate. But with age comes wisdom. Mr President, I would like to Let me have a moment to discuss the issues relating to this. It is an activity that has faced great pressures from the digitalisation that is taking place in society and which, of course, must also be allowed to continue to develop in harmony with this digitalisation. The government has set up an investigation to deal with this very issue, which we naturally welcome. We believe that this should mean that we receive secured public services throughout the country in the postal and payment services area. But we must not duck for the challenges either. One important issue we see is the issue of co-distribution. When you can get your newspaper and mail at the same time, we believe that it ensures that distribution across the country that is worthy of the name is maintained in a cost-effective way and at a competitive price. We also believe that this could be a way of better linking the country together and ensuring that all parts of the country have a level playing field. That is why I am in favour of reservation 4. Finally, let me mention a few words about what is called the overnight transport requirement, which is often used as an argument against the possibility of co-distribution. We see, of course, that there is a need to be able to quickly carry even nouns across the entire surface of our country, preferably overnight. This is something that the investigation will need to look at, but there is also the possibility of co-distributing mail and newspapers, on the terms of the newspapers rather than on the terms of the mail, even getting faster distribution depending on how you work. We do not feel from the Alliance that the tests carried out in this area have been really wholehearted. They have been interrupted after a short time, and the argument about the interruption has been questionable – to say the least. We believe that there are still great opportunities to create a better service. That is why we are taking this position.
i-278af95acb98fc01-526	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of motion 2015/ 16:1919, Postal services in rural areas, by Saila Quicklund. Most of us, the majority of Swedes, today have good access to postal services. We who live close to or in cities, larger cities or larger towns, have good access to postal services. At the same time, we have experienced even better service in recent years as the postal distribution has moved into the store with more convenient opening hours. At the same time, companies have received more alternatives regarding mailing and advertising. We see Sweden's democrats as positive. However, as urbanisation and the population of urban dwellers have increased, the population of rural people has decreased. They have recently had to stand back. This anti-rural policy can be seen in so many areas that today it is easy to believe that no one lives in sparsely populated areas at all. This applies from fuel prices to IT availability – to name a few areas. It can be seen that the focus has been shifted towards the city and that the interests of the city residents weigh the most. We Swedish democrats are a rural-friendly party. We look with concern at the polarisation that is constantly growing between town and rural areas. The feeling of being forgotten and not being allowed to come forward in the social debate is devastating to the social body. It is often not an individual proposal that provokes this feeling, but rather a larger, pervasive trend in which small constant adjustments to the disadvantage of rural areas play a role. It is therefore positive that Quicklund wants to focus on a Sweden perspective with his exercise regarding the postal service in our sparsely populated parts.
i-278af95acb98fc01-530	Mr President, I would like to In these times when we are discussing whether we are first, second or possibly third in the world on rapidly expanding broadband and digital connections throughout our country, it is appropriate to remind us that even in the case of postal services – which we are talking about today – we were at one time forerunners. If I am correctly informed, Sweden is the country that was once the first in the world to have an orderly postal service. Sometimes it may sound like postal services also belong to a bygone era, but the post office has its obvious place in a functioning society even today. Different techniques, in this case the technique of distributing written messages, partially eat up the prerequisites for old habitual institutions. It is easy to compare with telephony, payment system or something similar. Politics must be involved in and take responsibility for ensuring the basic functions of socially important systems. Postal services are such a system and will certainly be available for a long time. Not least, the policy has a responsibility to look at those groups of people or parts of the country who, for various reasons, have concerns to participate in the technology transition. The challenge of postal services is increasing, especially in rural areas. This is because fewer and fewer ordinary mails are sent as emails and other systems take over. This may sound obvious, but I mention it because the wording often refers to the increasing depopulation of rural areas. Then there is reason to point out that there is no increasing depopulation of rural areas. For many years, rural areas have increased their population throughout Sweden. Then, of course, things look different in different parts of the country. The main problem in this context, and the challenge, is that we send less mail. There are simply fewer letters in each mailbox. The alliance parties have expressed their reservations on the issue of the co-distribution of newspapers and letters. We have noted that this issue has been highlighted in the directives for an investigation. The investigation has also been extended. We do not want to wait, but we think it is high time to come forward with legislative proposals that will allow letters to be distributed in the next morning with the newspaper, rather than being driven out separately today, possibly together with a morning newspaper that will arrive in the afternoon. I myself have many years of experience with that system. In today's society where e-mails can be used in a hurry, such a system would definitely suit most affected people better. It would benefit both the economy and the environment. Solutions that are otherwise close at hand are that it is becoming ever longer to the mailbox or other changes that make it difficult for the individual when the distributor seeks more cost-effective solutions and methods. Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party is therefore calling for the committee's proposal to be rejected under paragraph 4, and we call for the joint reservation 4 on co-distribution to be approved.
i-278af95acb98fc01-536	Mr President, I would like to Both private and business alike remain largely dependent on a well-functioning postal service, including in our increasingly digitised society. Many companies rely on a high and consistent level of postal services for their operations. This applies, in particular, to the situation in rural areas. If the level of service is not guaranteed, local businesses, jobs and individuals in already vulnerable rural areas are at a disadvantage. Therefore, there is the universal postal service provided by Postnord. The mission is to provide such a service. Unfortunately, it doesn't work very well today. This often occurs in error sorting, and the reliability of the service has been thinned as the work environment has deteriorated. Those who work with sorting find it difficult to keep up with. It disappears letters too often. By this month, a package has disappeared to my own home address, and we often run back with messages that have come wrong. This time it was a present. In other cases, these may be bills that do not arrive and that can now go to debt collection when the market is pushing so that the payment period does not expire after a month, but rather after ten days. It can affect the most vulnerable – those who do not have money to move with. I would like to remind you that Postnord does not receive any State aid for the provision of the universal service. At the same time, letter volumes have continuously decreased over a long number of years. It is a reduction that affects revenue. Nevertheless, the State has established a high return requirement for Postnord. The Left Party is opposed to that. There is currently a campaign from Seko Posten that drives questions about working conditions. It highlights the tough situation in the business and the widespread dissatisfaction among employees in the company. I believe that it is the task of Parliament to pay attention to such things as how people live and what work environment they have in their everyday lives. It is our job and our responsibility to ensure that it works. The return requirement is 10.5 percent. It should be reviewed, depending on how tough the business is because of digitalisation. We need to make a smooth transition in this social change, so that people who work with this service and people who depend on it do not suffer. It is the view of the Left Party that the state as owner should ensure good working conditions for employees and that this also includes reducing the proportion of precarious employment and the use of temporary work agencies. We want to review the law and look at these things so that the community mission can be guaranteed. Seko's appeal to Sweden's politicians and Postnord's management highlights the fact that postal operations are undergoing strong change, that digitalisation leads to reduced revenues as letter volumes fall and that statutory service targets and economic targets do not go together. The company is not given the right conditions. In addition, current postal legislation is designed in a way that disadvantages postal companies responsible for maintaining the social mission. As a result, as I said earlier and as Seko himself writes straight up and down, employees are subjected to excessive efficiency improvements, understaffing and a high proportion of precarious employment and that it is very common in the business. It is high stress, in other words, just as in so many activities in our society in general where you look primarily at profit rather than putting people, function and quality in focus. It's time for change. We should steer the ship and put the right perspective at the centre. It is not that the economy is for the economy and a few pockets, but the economy is for man. That is what we need to plan our activities. This is again an area where we have not succeeded in recent years. I would like to read out what Seko writes to the government: We are happy to remind the government of the beautiful words in the Government Declaration: New technology and more efficient working methods should not lead to stress or wear and tear. I would urge the government to look at this again, because it does not seem to be the case in this particular activity. I support our reservation 3, which addresses this particular problem and calls for the postal law to be reviewed in order to meet these needs. From the Left Party we take seriously the problem that many people experience with not having access to cash in today's Sweden, especially in sparsely populated areas where there is often a shortage of ATMs. In the remaining bank accounts, cash management is reduced and has in many cases been completely discontinued. The situation description presented in the County Administrative Board of Dalarna's reporting back to the Government highlights a number of concerns, including technical challenges and difficulties for the elderly in mastering the technology for electronic payments. Therefore, we in the Left Party believe that it is urgent that the state assume its responsibilities and continue to ensure access to money for everyone in Sweden. The government could consider the possibility of giving additional directives to the investigations currently under way in this area. One proposal is that the parliamentary committee decided on by the Government in June 2015 should submit proposals for the direction and formulation of a coherent policy for long-term sustainable development in Sweden's rural areas. Here it is possible to meet these needs. I support all my reservations, but I only support reservation 3.
i-6MAnDhtiZMos7ZS4Vrnxez	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Wallrup, for an interesting contribution to the debate! I have read the Left Party's reservations, and Emma Wallrup and I have debated postal issues in the past. It is very clear that we want to bring about a change, especially with regard to the employment situation of a particular company that may be state owned, through changes in the postal law. My question to Emma Wallrup is whether it would not be more appropriate to discuss workplace legislation and whether it really is something that should be discussed specifically for a state-owned company. Then I understand the soft transition that Emma Wallrup wants to achieve into a more digitised way of dealing with reality. That may sound sympathetic, but what I'm a little worried about is that we risk landing in some form of inhibiting digital development. I believe that digital development is rather the way forward for rural areas. Then, of course, those who feel that they do not master the form of payment solutions should have a continued good public service. My question to Emma Wallrup is also: would not the co-distribution of newspapers and mail be a way of enabling the softer transition to a digitalised society, without, for that matter, putting any restraint on digitalisation itself?
i-278af95acb98fc01-558	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. Of course, we also want to review workplace legislation. It is very important, and there is much to do because of the great liberalisations that have taken place in recent years and which have caused enormous problems in terms of both quality and quality of life for employees. We need to have a ground perspective and look at how people are doing. We cannot live here in our bubble, well paid and in a simple life, and then turn off, when a lot of people in Sweden have a terrible tough situation at their workplace, where perhaps almost everyone in the department eats Omeprazole. There are many such examples. We need to have a soil perspective, and then we need to review health and safety legislation and ensure that there is enough money to carry out the activities that are to be carried out. We cannot continue to increase the gaps as we have done in recent years. We have a record number of billionaires in Sweden at the same time as we see how well-being and many workplaces, such as the post office, are on their knees. We have a very high return requirement on Postnord. Instead, perhaps we should review the distribution in Sweden so that we can afford to make the smooth transition, because we will continue to need the post. There will continue to be a lot of letters and packages via internet sales and so on, so these are features that we will continue to depend on. We have to make it work. But right now, this transition is under way. Then we need to look at this and do it well, while at the same time we need to increase the margins in society where people are staying, where our children and old people are staying, in the workplaces, for those who do the services so that this country can be built and we can stand here now and have this building around us. It is people who build it with their hands, and they have the right to payment. It is not the number of billionaires that will increase in Sweden, but we will allocate the resources so that we can have good and good functions.
i-278af95acb98fc01-564	Mr President, I would like to I am a little taken by the very extensive rhetoric and notice that Emma Wallrup is passionate about these issues. That's very good. What strikes me is that nowhere along the way did I experience any concrete suggestions on how to achieve this more than to flush back the tape. Somehow we are going to force up the letters volumes so that it becomes more lucrative to conduct postal activities, or just nationalize the whole race and then not worry about how much mail people really need to send but have an unchanged postal system anyway. That there does not need to be a direct link between how the mail works and how much mail you have to send is then the second variant. I ask myself a lot of questions to both of them. I think we will have to accept that the post is undergoing a major change. And sometimes change hurts; that is quite right. In an industry that is slowly but surely shrinking, due to a major change in society, there will be major changes. You cannot guarantee the same level as before. As far as health and safety legislation is concerned, we should not, of course, have to feel bad about going to work, but it is, of course, employer responsibility that we in this House do not really bear. Our main tool there is either legislation or ownership directives. The legislation in this area is very clear, and I think the ownership directives are the wrong way to go. I think there is a danger that Emma Wallrup is standing in the speaker's chair and suggests that we can somehow resolve this by means of a club team from the President. It creates expectations that we can never meet. I'll get back to the question. Could it not be that co-distribution creates better conditions for this soft transition and also creates better conditions for a good situation in the labour market?
i-278af95acb98fc01-570	Mr President, I would like to I've been talking to Seko about co-distribution. What they point out is that there is a risk that they have to get up at five o'clock and sort the mail for it to work. That's the problem. Otherwise, it sounds smart, so to speak. I think we need to be as effective as possible in our solutions, but here there seem to be some problems to be solved. What I want to highlight, and which is also highlighted by Posten and Seko, is that there simply needs to be a better balance between economic requirements and service objectives. Among other things, it is a question of reducing the yield requirement in this transition in order to make the business work. Then there is a decision on a new postal law that provides clearer directives for companies, as well as requirements as owners for good working conditions and decent employment, both for companies and for employees of subcontractors. That is what we can set guidelines for Postnord to implement.
i-278af95acb98fc01-572	Mr President, I would like to For the Christian Democrats, it is important that people should be able to live and live throughout Sweden. We want our whole country to live. People should choose where they want to live and live. However, this presupposes that there is a basic service throughout the country, regardless of whether you live in Värmland forests or in the Stockholm archipelago. The Christian Democrats want functioning services, such as childcare, school, health care and infrastructure, throughout the country. It is also necessary to have access to high-quality postal services, and easy-to-use and efficient payment services are needed. These are basic needs that have a major impact on people and businesses in rural areas and in society in general. Mr President, I would like to Our society is becoming increasingly digitised. It is important that people and businesses in rural areas are included in the digital development of society. It is therefore important that rural areas have access to electronic payment services and postal services. Unless rural public services meet the needs of people and businesses, more people will choose to move from the country to the city. Measures to ensure a good and accessible public service have a major impact on the population's ability to stay and work in sparsely populated areas. PTS has a major responsibility to ensure a well-functioning postal service throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to The joint distribution of newspapers and mail is important, as it creates better conditions for maintaining the level of service in rural areas. Co-distribution has both environmental and socio-economic benefits. The view of the Christian Democrats is that the joint distribution of newspapers and mail is particularly important in rural areas. A coordinated distribution of mail and newspapers creates better conditions for maintaining the level of service in rural areas despite decreasing volumes for both newspapers and letters. Mr President, I would like to I support the Alliance's joint reservation No 4.
i-278af95acb98fc01-578	Mr President, I would like to The post office, which is a very important function for many, is quite regulated by law. There's a goal. It is also said what price it should have. Sometimes when I've read the Postal Act and seen the goals, I've been thinking about what the Public Transport Act looks like. I would like to see whether some of the regulations for postal services should perhaps also apply to public transport in terms of clear objectives for service and delivery to customers. But I am not really supposed to talk about it now, because the report deals with postal issues and basic payment services. I think it's important that we let the investigation that now exists finish, and I have high expectations of it. Pending its completion, I support the proposal contained in the report and reject all motions for resolutions. It is not just the Alliance that is interested in trying out the possibilities of co-distribution. We all live in a world where we know that the amount of letters is decreasing. The challenge of delivering a good postal service throughout the country is becoming greater in this context, and then innovative new opportunities must be tested. It is also not the case that the delivery of newspapers is an increasing market. I assume that the investigation will test the possibilities that exist and find opportunities to improve the service without impairing the employees. I had the pleasure and honour of receiving the petition made by Seko employees in the Post Office with calls and demands for better working conditions. I have people in my circle who have told me how they can run longer and longer. Their distribution areas are increasing, as is competition. The increased areas increase wear and tear. Apart from the fact that it is of course very bad for the employees, it also increases the sick leave items in society. Regardless of which party we belong to, it should be in our interest to prevent sick leave and ensure that people can do their job without being prematurely worn out and may be forced to leave before they reach retirement age. Then it is very important that Postnord is an effective company from the perspective of society, the owner's perspective and also the employees' perspective. It is important to restore the possibility of professional pride. And then perhaps the goal is that at least 85 percent of the mail should arrive in time a little too low. I found to my surprise the other week that I received a personal letter addressed to a moderate colleague home in my mailbox. I don't think that's going to happen. It should be more than 85 percent of the post that comes right and arrives on time. In a slightly larger perspective, we have agreed from various quarters that we must reduce the oil content of our transport. From this point of view too, we need to consider what digitalisation means. Of course, it has some obvious advantages, that you do not physically distribute as much, but there are also some things that are increasing. From the window where I sit and work at home, I can see various vans that come with things my neighbors ordered online. They're coming after each other. I wonder in my calm mind if the delivery is always so effective. We'll look into it and think about how we can improve public services. How can postal and parcel distribution – the latter I think is increasing – meet the requirements of good conditions for employees, reduced oil content in transport and as much economic efficiency as possible? It is a major challenge, but I am absolutely sure that we from the cooperation government will tackle it as ambitiously as possible.
i-278af95acb98fc01-585	Mr President, I would like to Our ability to communicate is somewhere the foundation of humanity. It is by communicating with each other that we are moving forward. By communicating with each other, we create both change and development, and we realize dreams. Not least, it is by communicating that we form ourselves in different ways. The way we communicate is constantly changing. At the moment, it may be faster than ever, in connection with technological developments. In 1632 Gustav II Adolf died at the battle of Lützen. It took three weeks for the court to find out that the king had died. If this had happened today, we would probably have received the information live or streamed over the network directly, without any distinction. Technology changes the way we communicate, but it does not change our need to communicate with each other. I am convinced that there will continue to be a need for a well-functioning postal service throughout our country. The speed of digitalisation means changes in how we organize public services. Of course, it is necessary for us to review it. A review of postal legislation is currently under way. It is in time, especially in view of the speed with which changes are taking place. We have a large country with many inhabitants, and there are many who live not in cities but in sparsely populated areas. Today's postal legislation takes this into account, and we also assume that the government and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency continue to monitor society's needs for postal services and postal services across the country, to all its inhabitants. In its reservation, the Left Party highlights questions about the working conditions of the Postnord employees. It has not been very long since the trade union Seko submitted a petition on this. Personally, I am very concerned about the development and situation, especially after the merger between the Swedish State, or Swedish Post Office, and the Danish Post Office, which resulted in Postnord. For me, this is not just about the situation that has arisen as a consequence for the employees, but rather about the social activity that in Sweden has worked very well both organizationally and economically. However, after the merger, the activities of the less well-functioning Danish post office seem to have also contaminated the operations in Sweden. We Social Democrats follow the questions carefully, because they are both important and urgent. The issue of the working environment is of course central especially for those working in Postnord, but it does not really belong here. It is the legislation on health and safety at work that regulates these issues, and in addition the Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations and of course the agreement between the parties. Perhaps that is also where the questions should lie, and not in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. Mr President, I would like to I must mention something about the reservation that the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats have left about the joint distribution. This has been pointed out to the government, which has also taken the matter seriously and brought it into the current Post investigation. I therefore find it difficult to see what is actually being pursued in this reservation and what the government could do further at the present time. I guess we'll just have to get back to that when the investigation is complete. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-278af95acb98fc01-594	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that you are highlighting labour law, Teres Lindberg, that you clearly see that this matter needs to be addressed and that you are monitoring what happened during the merger between the Swedish and Danish posts. However, you cannot escape responsibility when you sit in a position and have a responsibility. The motion was raised here in Parliament and came up in our committee because parliamentary officials considered it to be part of our committee. Then we as politicians cannot send it to other committees. Then this will certainly also come up in the Employment Committee, and they will look at their parts. In our committee, for example, we could look at the yield requirement and the legislative procedure. We could look at the role of society and how to strengthen it and shape it so that we can meet the needs of the post office when it comes to being able to carry out a good business and at the same time have a good labour law.
i-278af95acb98fc01-597	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps this is what complicates matters. Our responsibility in the Transport Committee is to provide public services with postal services to the Swedish people. It is clear that from time to time we get close to interest in both post-distributors and employees working in postal operations. The dilemma with regard to the yield requirement is that this too is not a matter for the Committee on Transport and Tourism. It is the Committee on Economic Affairs that manages the state-owned companies. That question, too, does not really belong here. However, I know that there is an ongoing discussion in the Committee on Industry and Industry, and I assume that they will also discuss the yield requirements for Postnord, just like for all other companies. But the question still doesn't really belong here.
i-278af95acb98fc01-599	Mr President, I would like to I agree that it may be a little diffuse. Several committees are responsible for the matter, and it is not entirely clear to which committee responsibility falls. But the motion has ended up here, and we have to deal with it and take responsibility for it. We are looking at the working environment when it comes to, for example, the haulage industry. If we are to have a good public service that works, we must ensure that the conditions in production work, and that is what they are not doing here. That is why we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which is responsible for the post, also need to review this properly.
i-278af95acb98fc01-601	Mr President, I would like to The basic problem is this: We have had a postal business in Sweden that has even been profitable for the state. But now we have a merger that took place under the previous government with the Danish post, and the Danish post has been a de facto bleeding business. The profit made in Sweden is combined with the loss of earnings made in Denmark, which is a major problem. This is also the effect of pressing the employees of Postnord in Sweden. Of course, this is nothing that we think is good in any way. But this is what the business looks like today, and that is more what you need to look at. What has really happened, and in what way is it reasonable for a relatively well-functioning operation in Sweden to be slaughtered because of a bad deal that a former government has done?
i-278af95acb98fc01-603	Mr President, I would like to We talk big and we talk small in this House, but whatever it is we are debating are issues that affect people. Sometimes there are many, and sometimes there are fewer, but no matter which, every single issue is important to anyone. The maintenance of services in rural areas may primarily concern those living in sparsely populated areas and rural areas, and some summer guests, but this does not make the issue any less urgent for those concerned. Many times, the places in the country where postal services are pulled down are also those where digitalisation has been slowest – in other words, the places where there are the most senior alternatives. Karin Svensson Smith mentioned this with letters from a moderate colleague who ended up wrong. I know that. It also happens to me that mail comes wrong; we are many with similar names. As a curiosity, I can mention an event. We had taken pictures of the children for Christmas and sent off to family and friends. They remained in the red Christmas mailboxes when they were picked up for the winter. They were first handed out Christmas after with a very apologizing letter from the post office, to great joy for family and friends and with a moral gain for me and the husband who had been so falsely accused of not sending any Christmas cards. That year, people got two Christmas cards. This is happening, then, absolutely! It's great that the investigation is done, but the question is how long are we going to wait? For us liberals, it is important for people to be able to choose where they want to live, live and work. For the whole country to be an alternative, some basic service needs to be provided. Co-distribution is one way of ensuring that rural postal services remain in place. This in turn is a way to make all of Sweden live. I therefore propose that reservation 4 be approved.
i-278af95acb98fc01-608	Mr President, I would like to Dance band musician and artist Danne Stråhed have written a tribute song to the bike where he repeats five times in broad Skåne: The bike is the key to freedom, the bike is the key to everything. He's right in a lot, Danne Stråhed. Perhaps the bike is not the solution to all problems, but it gives a lot of freedom, especially in the big cities where it is usually easier to get around by bike than by car. Using the bike as a means of transport also gives greater economic freedom, since you do not have expensive fuel costs, parking expenses, vehicle tax, repair costs and so on. For a group of people, immigrant women from Muslim countries, cycling lessons, arranged by many municipalities in cooperation with the Red Cross and other organisations, have really paved the way to freedom. These women have challenged age-old norms and have been able to get jobs, for example in home care. They have become self-sufficient and independent of their men or society. The bike thus gives both freedom and supports the work line, which is something that appeals to us Moderates. Cycling also provides good exercise and is positive for the environment. Many have discovered the benefits of cycling, so cyclists are growing more and more daily. But is all peace and joy so that we politicians can sit back? Of course not. Last year, Parliament gave a strong announcement to the government to return as soon as possible with a national strategy that takes into account important issues in order to get more people to choose the bike as a means of transport. The idea behind the announcement was that cycling should be so accessible, safe, functional and attractive that people choose to cycle. We as politicians should create the conditions for people to make wise choices, not necessarily with pointers, bans and coercive measures. Viewing cycling as a separate, equivalent mode of transport with specific infrastructure needs is a fundamental prerequisite for meeting today's, and even more future, transport challenges. Electric bicycles and fast bicycles are predicted to be a future concept, and other countries in Europe have already re-run, or rather recycled, Sweden in terms of the use of electric bicycles. In Holland, for example, 200 000 electric bicycles are sold each year. The electric bike has a great advantage compared to a regular cycle: it is easier to drive on the uphill and in the headwind. The biker as a commuter does not have to worry about coming to work tired and sweaty. The disadvantage is, of course, the price, but as more people choose an electric bicycle instead of, or as a complement to, a car, the second-hand market on electric bicycles will grow and prices will fall. In the Alliance's reservation, we stress the importance of creating conditions for the use of e-bike, particularly in the area of infrastructure. Is it ideal that electric bicycles and fast bikes share a cycle path with regular bikes and walking? Functional infrastructure is one of the issues to which we have highlighted and to which we expect the national strategy to respond. In the Alliance's joint reservation, we point to an important issue, namely security. It is worrying that the number of bicycle accidents has increased in the last year. Could it be that the number of bicycle accidents is increasing because of the increase in cycling? No, there is no such connection. On behalf of the bike promotion was examined the connection between bicycle trips, safety for cyclists and the number of injuries. The study showed that the more people who cycled, the safer the bike paths were. It'll be like the question of the chicken and the egg. What came first – the increase in the number of cyclists or the improvement of cycle paths? Good cycling infrastructure leads to more people using bikes. And the more people who use bicycles, the more the municipalities are motivated to improve their cycling infrastructure further and maintain a high standard of operation and maintenance, including winter road maintenance and anti-slip control. There is a need for more cycle paths that separate the bikers from the pedestrians as well as more cycle motorways that can reduce barrier effects from crossing tracks and roads. In the Cyke investigation appointed by the former alliance government, some improvements were proposed for cyclists in the urban environment, such as the possibility for cyclists to make a right turn at red lights for car traffic. In addition to the concrete measures to achieve the objective of killing and seriously damaging people in traffic, more research and statistics on cycling should be prioritised in order to increase both use and safety. We hope that the forthcoming cycle strategy will focus on continued and vigorous work to reduce the number of bicycle accidents. Mr President, I would like to Of course, we support all our reservations, but for time winning, I am in favour of reservations 1 and 4.
i-278af95acb98fc01-622	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party also sees several perspectives where the cycle as a mode of transport brings great benefits to both the individual and public health as well as to society in other ways. The sports related to the issues we have to deal with here are largely about two areas: the need for society to stimulate and facilitate cycling in a structured way, and how to achieve a safer traffic environment for those who cycle. In both motions and the office's letters, we often refer to Kent Johansson's report from 2012, and we also think that it contains a lot that is worth considering and much more to implement in the cycling environment. First of all, the fact that the cycle is treated as a separate mode of transport with its own needs and conditions is an important starting point. The study also concludes that it is not fundamental legislative changes but the approach of the national, regional and, not least, local political levels that can make a difference. This too is an important starting point. That is precisely why a concerted cycle strategy is needed. The announcement made by the Parliament on this matter now seems to be about to begin at least to lead to action, and that is something that we are impatiently waiting for. A prerequisite for the cycle to become a winning mode of transport in the long run is that we overcome the accident. Cycling must be guided in the same way as driving in a clear direction towards zero vision. There's still a lot of work to be done here. The Center Party believes that a broad approach is necessary and that the above-mentioned cycle strategy is lacking. It is about planning better for safer cycling routes, in new and old urban areas as well as on rural roads. But it is also important that the risks are addressed in everything from traffic rules and information to other soft factors, while the benefits of cycling are highlighted. Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party are of course behind all our reservations, but for the winning time I am content to ask for the approval of reservations 1 and 4.
i-278af95acb98fc01-630	Mr President, I would like to Climate change is increasingly being reminded, not only here in the form of this winter with mild weather, but also through the snowstorms we saw in the United States in mid-January. In New York City, a state of disaster was declared. The inhabitants of the worst affected areas of the state had to be rescued. Today, major disasters are regularly occurring around the earth due to extreme weather events. It is about everything from a record-breaking El Ni ñ o last year to, for example, a record-strong hurricane in south-western Mexico. It killed 14 people and caused $300 million worth of damage. Around the world we can see that droughts and floods hit people hard. It's scary stuff. But we can still act, according to the research. We still have opportunities to influence developments. If it goes a little further, we won't have it. But we can still influence developments. It places enormous responsibility on us, especially on us transport politicians. We have a great opportunity to influence emissions in Sweden. We have the opportunity to be a role model for other countries. A small country's strongest opportunity to influence the world is to be a role model. China, for example, is often here looking at our solutions and so on. We should therefore give more priority than ever to public transport and cycling. Then it's nice that the cycle strategy is underway. We are really looking forward to a good cycling strategy, which will lead us forward, which takes serious steps and where you carefully look at how to solve the stop blocks that exist to develop cycling. That's very positive. In the Left Party we are also pleased that the content of our exercise was taken into account when it comes to a concrete goal of how much cycling should increase. It is positive to have something to steer towards, and we will be able to evaluate the work in a clearer way. In an investigation that was completed approximately 2014, the state investigators stated that there is not much need for legislative changes, as has been said here before. It is rather the planning processes that you need to work with. But resources are also needed. They expect you to have to add about 1 billion. There is also much talk about bicycle parks. In bicycle cities around the world, bicycle parking can be problematic. It should be looked at strategically, at public transport nodes but also at larger workplaces. It should be viewed in a strategic way overall. Because it can make a mess of things. Big social gains can be made by cycling, simply in terms of saving our planet – which is the biggest responsibility we have in our time – but also in terms of promoting people's health. By cycling you can transport yourself in a healthy way. It is also beneficial for low-income earners because it is a cheap means of transport. There are therefore many advantages to cycling. I think everyone in this House thinks so. When working on the strategy you could look at interesting examples around the world. I think Groningen in Holland is very interesting. There, conscious urban planning has led to twice the speed of getting through the city to some city centres by bicycle as it does by car. So a great deal can be done to promote the proper transport of ourselves. I would also like to highlight our reservation. I request the approval of reservation 2. In it we address the need to look at how to convert to two-plus-one paths. The problem is that the cycle paths disappear then. The possibility of travelling by bicycle or walking can disappear when two-plus-one paths are built. It can cause problems in rural areas where children cannot even visit their neighbors. I have highlighted this earlier in the speaker's chair. Because we've been pushing on about this for quite some time. Trafikverket does not ensure that there are cycle paths, where there should actually be, at each rebuilding of two-plus-one road. That is why we want a clearer assignment to the Swedish Transport Administration. There is quite a lot of cycle path in the country that disappears, precisely in sparsely populated areas, when we rebuild the two-plus-one roads. With this, I would ask you to accept reservation 2.
i-278af95acb98fc01-642	Mr President, I would like to When I started high school, we moved from Örebro to Kumla. Most of my friends lived in Örebro. Of course, I wanted to go there as often as I could. The problem was that the bus card was not valid for evenings and weekends. Then what was a 16-year-old who had all his friends about 20 miles away? There were a lot of phone calls, which wasn't very popular. This was in the happy '90s, the internet's childhood. I have tried to explain to my children what happened when using the Internet, that the phones did not work and that there was no Skype that could be associated with. It makes no sense to them. What did I do to not only talk to my friends on the phone but also meet them? I had no choice. I sat on my bike and cycled along the old E3 to Örebro. It took about an hour to get there. It took a lot longer on the way home because it was almost just uphill. I know a lot of people who ride that road to this day. They cycle between municipalities because they work in one and live in the other. Now it is also quite possible to cycle there. A cycle path has been built along the entire old E3. When I rode there as a teenager, it was more or less lethal. I cycled in the road, and the cars blew past me in 70 - 80 — if I was lucky. Most of the time they drove much faster than that; it was long straight distances. Unfortunately, this is how it looks in many places. Cycling is not a priority. If more people are to dare to use the bike, it must be safer to cycle. Road safety for cyclists and pedestrians should be highlighted more clearly in infrastructure planning. You shouldn't just let the piece that hopefully turns over between road and ditch be for the cyclists. It is not only stepmotherly treatment but also dangerous. Yes, it is essentially a local or regional question. But the state can contribute, by clearing up the regulatory framework. For example, turning the bike into a separate mode could be another way. Today it is rather a kind of middle variant. It is also about sorting out complicated traffic rules and signposting so that it becomes understandable and clear. We do not allow motorists to guess what rules apply in a new city. Then why should the cyclists do it? It's just lack of clarity causes irritation and leads to dangerous roads. The traffic rules for cyclists should be reviewed and tightened up. As cycling speeds in commuting traffic to and from work increase, there must be a functioning traffic regulation system. Another part is maintenance. Where the state is responsible for the roads, there must of course be a clear mission for the maintenance and operation of bicycle routes. A good example from my own county is equal snow clearance, where Karlskoga municipality was first out. It was seen that snow clearance had different consequences for women and men. Men drive more often. Women go and bike more and go more public transport. Health and sick leave due to slip accidents costs society four times more than winter road maintenance. And most single accidents affect pedestrians and cyclists. Yet the roads are ploughed first and the bicycle and walkways last. The latter also often lead to the bus stops. Although more people die when they sit behind the steering wheel or are passengers in a car, cyclists dominate inpatient care. Every year, 23 000 people need to go to an emergency hospital for care after having had an accident by bicycle. Then we have not counted all those who, so to speak, just get to the health centre. The most common is single accidents that have often been caused by poor road maintenance. In other words, it is possible to prevent good planning. No, the state is not and cannot do everything. But if we look at successful countries, we can see that they are working together at all levels there. We should not force people to cycle, but if we are serious about being able to choose a bike before a car, the bike must also be a real alternative. Then the infrastructure must be in place. The question of how to plan for those taking buses, bicycles or walking should be asked much more often. We are going to remove obstacles and, above all, we are not going to build new barriers when new ones are being built. We Liberals, of course, support all our reservations, but for time to come, I am in favour of reservations 1 and 4.
i-278af95acb98fc01-653	Mr President, I would like to A long-term and sustainable transport system is of great importance to many parts of our society. It is about the environment, travel, health and, not least, the country's competitiveness that contributes to the development of our society. A well-functioning and accessible infrastructure is important for passenger and freight transport, for tourism and is a prerequisite for everyone living in rural areas to live and work in different parts of the country. Mr President, I would like to The bike is an important means of transport. If we manage to get more people to use the bike as a means of transport and also travel more collectively, it contributes both to better health and to better environment. Municipalities and regions bear the great responsibility for local and regional cycling traffic and the state should support with laws and rules that facilitate cycling and also contribute with a national overall national cycling strategy to promote cycling. Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out that we Christian Democrats want to increase the resources for bicycle promotion in the coming years and we have set aside additional funds for this in our draft budget. I would also like to remind you that in spring 2015, at the initiative of the alliance parties, the Riksdag issued an announcement to the government to develop a national cycling strategy. And we can note that the government is now working on developing a national cycle strategy. That's a good thing! For us Christian Democrats, it is important to continue working to improve the conditions to make cycling safer and to prevent road accidents involving the bicycle. Mr President, I would like to One third of the journeys made today are less than five kilometres and the bike is therefore a good alternative to other means of transport. An increase in cycling is positive to reduce congestion in our cities. It is therefore important that we facilitate the accessibility of cyclists in the cities. It is very positive that the interest in the bicycle as a means of transport has increased recently. It is also gratifying that general road safety work is progressing. Unfortunately, however, the number of people injured or killed in bicycle accidents has increased, and this is a development that we must take seriously. We need to work to prevent bicycle accidents so that cycling is safer. These include traffic rules, clear signs, snow and sand ploughing during the winter months and encouraging more and more people to use bicycle helmets. The Christian Democrats believe that it is important that the design, operation and use of the transport system continue to be adapted to the objective of killing or seriously damaging anyone in traffic. Road safety for cyclists and accessibility for cyclists should be a priority in urban planning, and the work on regulatory changes that facilitate cycling in our cities should be a priority. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats welcome the fact that, following the announcement made by the Riksdag in spring 2015, the government has announced that a national cycle strategy will be developed. We believe that this work is valuable because more cycling lowers emissions, reduces congestion on our roads and increases public health. At the same time, we would like to point out that there are several improvements to be made for cyclists and that this applies, among other things, to the urban environment. It is important that we work for a coherent and safe cycling infrastructure across municipal and cross-regional boundaries that, among other things, improves accessibility for cyclists and facilitates work commuting. One of the areas that we believe it needs to be focused on is that guidelines should be developed that further highlight the possibilities for cyclists to make a right turn at the red light for car traffic. While it is gratifying that the importance of the bicycle as a means of transport is increasing, we can also see that when other categories of road users suffer fewer deaths and serious accidents than before, the development is unfortunately not as favourable for cyclists. The Safer Cycling Strategy developed by the Finnish Transport Administration and stakeholders is an important part of the efforts to increase road safety for cyclists. The focus of the upcoming cycle strategy should be to make cycling safer with a focus on reducing the number of accidents and facilitating accessibility. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to stress the need for continued and vigorous work to increase the safety of cyclists in traffic and the need for more strategic and preventive work to reduce the number of bicycle accidents. We believe that this should be done on the basis of the overall objective that applies to all road safety work: No one should be killed or seriously injured in traffic. Mr President, I would like to I support the Christian Democrats' reservation and the alliance parties' joint reservation No 4.
i-278af95acb98fc01-677	Mr President, I would like to I will take my starting point in a summer program that was broadcast in the summer of 2015. It was the summer program that spread the most, and it was Johan Rockström who talked. He stressed the seriousness of the climate issue and the responsibility we now have. He said we'd have to change to become a flight attendant. The programme was widely shared and represented a very good approach to the discussions that took place prior to the global climate summit in Paris. Sweden's commitment follows the increased ambition of the climate summit. It was agreed that instead of working to stabilise greenhouse gases so that we achieve a temperature increase of up to two degrees, we would try to reach one and a half degrees. I believe that few of us believe that this objective is ambitious, but unfortunately the actual trend still points to four degrees rather than one and a half degrees. But the cooperation government has a commitment, and we have an ambition that is advanced. Sweden's contribution to the climate negotiations was to become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. I have good hopes that we can agree on this so that it does not just become the commitment of the cooperation government. Fossil freedom was a concept coined by the previous government that took the initiative to investigate a fossil freedom on the road. The goal of that study was that at least 80 per cent of CO2 should be gone by 2030. It is in the light of it that I see today's bicycle report. The cycle is completely unmatched when it comes to vehicles to achieve results both from society's perspective and for the individual's climate responsibility. It is therefore gratifying that last time in committee, when we debated bicycle issues, we were able to agree on two announcements, on the one hand, on a national strategy for the centre of the cycle, and on the other hand, one that enables adult cyclists to choose where to cycle. It is also gratifying that the cooperation government is delivering and has responded. Work on national cycling strategies has been started. It has also reserved SEK 100 million for bicycle promotion measures in 2016–2017. Against this background, I am a little surprised by the reservations that are now in place. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions. When I talk to bicycle organisations, they are rather concerned about the tight time horizon that the Ministry has in developing the national cycle strategy. It has been said that it will be delivered already in May this year. I hope that the work will be thorough in the first place. If it can also go quickly, there is no disadvantage. But the most important thing is that it will be good. I am also quite pleased that we in committee clearly state what expectations we have of the work on the national cycling strategy. We don't make any announcements, but we write that we expect you to come back with a goal. A strategy is not worth so much if you do not have a clear objective. What will the whole work result in? Is it something measurable and can be followed up? For me, an example of such goals is the work of the zero vision. Politically, a clear goal was set there, which at first was rather mocked by the surroundings. Ha, can you set a goal that no one should be killed in traffic! Yes, you can if you at the same time provide the authorities with the tools needed to achieve it. Today, Sweden is a country that virtually all nations who want to raise their ambitions in road safety visit to see: How did you do it? I had the pleasure of being there for almost the whole trip and I know what you were doing. The government gave very clear instructions to both the National Police Board and the Swedish Road Administration at the time: This is what you should do. You're going to look at speed, and you're going to build two plus-one paths with middle wire. But it did not just do isolated work within the framework of the state apparatus. They had a national collection of municipalities, trade unions, associations and road safety organisations where they systematically matched their work. Are we doing the right thing? Do we have people with us? Are these the right measures? I mean, every dead person on the road is a human being too much. But compared to other countries, we have few deaths per mile driven in the road system. Now I think you should work as systematically with the bicycle work. It is important that we in politics are anchored around and above all in Sweden's municipalities. It is very gratifying that the organisation Swedish Bicycle Cities has been formed, as municipalities are one of the key actors in this. In our report, we note that most of the damage is done on the local bicycle network. What can be done to prevent accidents? How do we prevent the serious incidents in particular? Perhaps we should come back to that when we discuss road safety in this House. We need to consider whether we should perhaps revise the focus of our road safety work. There is a certain contradiction when looking at the overall objective. We say that we should achieve measures that lead to better health but take precautions. Have we agreed that these precautions do not cause people to get caught up in old and traditional behaviour because they are afraid of being hurt? We need to have an open discussion. How do we encourage more people to cycle? It is so well documented for health that we move more and at the same time make sure that there are fewer injuries. I believe that the speed of our cities is a key issue in this context. I see it from several Scanian cities, in my own hometown, in Malmö and in others. If you can bring down the speed of cars, it increases people's willingness to ride a bike. It also alleviates the damage caused by traffic. I was this morning at a seminar that was very encouraging. It was a seminar on city centres. How are we going to get more attractive city centres? There is a clear link to which mode of transport people choose. Today, I believe that very few people would highlight a city centre with many car movements and many car parks as ideals for the city they want to offer their citizens. On the contrary, everyone from different quarters is saying that we want living city centres where people want to stay outdoors, where they shop and where they feel good. It was very interesting to have a survey from Melbourne. If you look at parking spaces and how much profit they generate, cyclists deliver three times as much revenue to traders as motorists if you count revenue per area. On average, cyclists are not richer than motorists. But at the bicycle parking places a much larger change takes place. People choose where they shop, and they attract more people. If you have a city centre overbelupen with cars, it is not attractive and does not attract new people. The corresponding survey has been carried out in Gothenburg. There you have looked at crowns per week and parking space. Again it is shown that wise planning if you want a living city and a rich commercial life at the heart of the city is planning for cyclists and pedestrians in the first place. Of course, a few cars will be needed. However, the evolution of time and the ambitious climate demand we have imposed on ourselves mean that more of that car work must take the form of car sharing and less of owning a private car and taking up a lot of space with parking. We need to change the distribution. Our entire cycle work is an extremely constructive work that can both benefit less climate impact and better health in people.
i-278af95acb98fc01-700	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the report on cycling and the rejection of reservations. Bike is an old means of transport. In 1817 the cycle was invented by Karl Drais, a German. They were a two-wheeled vehicle like today's bikes but without pedals and chain. The modern bike with pedals and chain was invented in 1885 by an Englishman named John Kemp Starley. Since then, cycling has grown strong in Sweden and around the world. Cycling is environmentally friendly. From a public health perspective, cycling is a very good means of transport with effects on well-being during regular use. A study published recently in the Netherlands shows that those who ride to and from work have a lower sickness absence than those who travel collectively or by car. There is a very large political consensus on the value and importance of strengthening cycling. I am pleased to hear that. It will facilitate the further work on the national cycle strategy that we are now in. I would also like to take this opportunity to bring up K ent Johansson's investigation, which I thought was a very good investigation when it landed. Unfortunately, as I see it, the bourgeois government did not take hold of that investigation. That is what we are now doing in the national cycle strategy. But it is a very good factual material that I think we will benefit greatly from in the further work. Work on the national cycle strategy is currently under way. I have been given the privilege of participating in it at some point. As Karin Svensson Smith explained, the work is ongoing. There will be delivery for the summer. It is even the case that bicycle organizations think it is going a little too fast. It is also something that we must take into account when it comes to final delivery. We have pointed out in the Cooperation Government that we want to put cycling on the agenda and, above all, set cycling targets. There are funds set aside. It is a total of SEK 100 million. There are 25 million in 2016 and 75 million in 2017 for cycle promotion measures. These could be national cycling trails. It can be targets and follow-up parts that we can use this money for. Let's get back to what it might be. But the aim is, of course, to get as many people as possible to choose a bicycle as an alternative in everyday commuting. The division of responsibilities with regard to bicycle infrastructure is very clear. The Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the state national road network, and the municipalities are responsible for the municipal roads and streets. The regions are developing planning for the regional network. Everyone must be able to work together. Otherwise, the possibility of using the bike will crack as a good way to commute. The movements that address the individual road areas must be dealt with in the national infrastructure plans and not least in the regional county transport plans. We must, of course, include it in the work to be done. Many municipalities have been successful in developing municipal cycle plans, which I think is very valuable. Nowadays there is a network called Swedish Bicycle Cities. We have in Parliament, which I hope most of you know, a bicycle network that works successfully with all the bicycle organisations that exist. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight a network that has been formed called Swedish Cycling. There we have actors from the bike promotion to the cycling cities. In between there are Vätternrundan and other actors. It is very good for us who are working on these issues to have a party to be able to talk to and get feedback from. We have a bicycle breakfast next Thursday, which I would like to take the opportunity to invite you to if you have not signed up for it. Christina Örnebjär mentioned snow clearance in her speech. I would just like to give an example. In my municipality of residence, Motala, we introduced some ten years ago that walking and cycling routes should have priority number one at snow clearance. It was a life without its like to begin with. There were a lot of motorists, mostly men my age, who were really pissed off. Why should you take the bike and walkway first? But now, after a number of years, it has been realized that there is a value in it, not least because, as Christina said, there are a lot of women who use bikes. It is also families with children who will make their way on the footpath. Today it works well with that part. There you can see that municipal influence and politics can make a difference if there is a will. In fact, I feel that there has been a completely different climate of conversation today in our parishes when it comes to cycling. You see cycling as a very important success factor in reaching a collective goal in terms of commuting. Finally, I would like to comment on the reservation by the Alliance on road safety and traffic rules. Of course, there is also some that will be covered by the cycling strategy. It's an episode that's being discussed. So far, there has been a very big discussion about security. I think it is too likely that something really will come out in connection with the strategy. We will have to come back to exactly how it will be designed. Then it's electric bicycles. Something has come very quickly. I agree with Boriana. I think it will grow very quickly in the future. We will need to deal with the question in the future: How should we handle electric bicycles? It is also part of the national cycle strategy that we will have to come back to in this House in the future if legislation will be required to deal with it in a different way. This is an issue which is a little early on but which we will have to deal with in the future. With that, Mr President, I would once again like to endorse the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations.
i-278af95acb98fc01-715	Mr President, I would like to Much has already been said about cycling, so it will not be much for me to add. But at least I thought I'd talk a little bit about bikes. We Swedish democrats are in favour of people becoming more active in their everyday lives by cycling to and from their work and leisure activities or just to the store. The bike is a good means of transport, and there are many advantages to the increased use of bicycle transport, including from a public health perspective. Cycling has taken off in recent years. Among other things, the bike challenge has worked hard to increase cycling. With regard to the cycling challenge, the goal has been to bring together teams at workplaces among employees competing to use alternative means of transport to and from their jobs. It is a fun team competition where participants collect points to the teams by walking, cycling and travelling collectively to and from their jobs. To motivate the law to fight, profits are distributed, often in the form of valuables. Getting by bike is not always easy as the infrastructure in cities and rural areas is often built for motor vehicles and is not suitable for cyclists. Several of the motions we are discussing in committee and in this report are about promoting increased cycling and how to facilitate it, so that it can be made easier, faster and safer. It is about everything from bike motorways to individual small distances in the municipalities. The Swedish democrats would like to take the bike with you when you do your urban planning and think about all modes of transport when it is planned for infrastructure. More and more people are using the bike. It depends on many factors. You want to increase your personal exercise. You might want to avoid congestion tax, as in Gothenburg. Maybe it's hard to get a parking lot. You can even make time by cycling. The reasons why you choose to use a bicycle are many. In order to encourage more people to cycle, the rental cycle system can be extended. It is also about expanding the range. You could offer electric bicycles. For commuters it is often difficult to transport their bike on public transport. Rental bikes at the stations would be very positive. It already exists. Unfortunately, many rental bicycles are destroyed and stolen, making it unprofitable for the companies that provide them. But to avoid destruction you can be creative and build bike garages where the bikes are more protected. Mr President, I would like to Safety is very important in traffic. As more and more people choose bicycle as a means of transport to commute from and to their jobs, there will be more unprotected road users on our streets. I've been trying to get statistics. I found a lot of statistics, and the statistics showed very different things. Between 80 and 100 people are killed and nearly 6 000 people are injured each year – about 30% of them suffer from this at crossing points. What's in traffic? You're going to ride on the right side of the track. If there is a cycle path, you should normally use it. However, you can cycle on the track even if there is a bike path when it is more suitable with regard to the destination. And if so, you must be very careful. More and more bikers are using this very opportunity to go out on the streets, as they want to get around quickly. Walking and cycling paths may not be satisfactory in view of the obstacles that exist, such as prams and dog owners holding long leashes. Being on the road dramatically increases the risk of serious accidents. We must find ways of separating these types of traffic as far as possible. The Swedish Democrats see an increased risk of accidents when more cyclists choose to use the streets. If the cyclists choose the roads instead, the municipalities may not feel that it is equally justified to build more bike paths. We Swedish democrats also see the possibility of possibly making a larger and more solid driving licence training where you take more account of cycling and that you already teach more about bikes, its equipment and how to get around in traffic without being harmed. Many cyclists may not even have a driver's license, and they have no understanding of how motorists drive, see and operate. The knowledge about bikes and how they can be performed is probably quite poor both for cyclists and motorists. We Members of Parliament have received proof of this in an email from a person who writes that bicycle passengers are dangerous for cyclists, and many cyclists are injured where they think they have the right to travel.
i-278af95acb98fc01-727	Mr President, I would like to It is not every time you sit in your Chamber, hear a debate and feel that no, now I want to go there and join the debate! After all, this cycling activity is very engaging, and when you read this report you might think that there is a bit of a bad attitude here in Parliament, that all the motions should be rejected and so on. But when you hear the debate you understand that we in Parliament like cycling. It's absolutely amazing, and it's spreading beyond our borders. Today I was interviewed by Brazilian television. He wondered a little bit how democracy here worked. When I told him that I used to borrow a service bike, that's what he absolutely wanted a picture of. Service bikes in Parliament! At our house we have expensive – excuse the language, Mr President – very expensive limousines instead, he said. Then you can see that this can be a picture of the future. Because what's the bike? It's energy-efficient. There is no other mode of transport that uses so little energy in urban traffic per person-kilometre. 10 kilos of steel and stuff to move 85, perhaps soon 90 kilos of human being instead of one and a half tons of sheet metal, steel and scrap to pull away a poor person! It is also efficient with cars compared to bicycles. Imagine how much bicycles fit on the same surface! And it's quiet! No noise problems! We wonder where to build, because there is noise everywhere and we have conflicts about it. But how quiet it is when the bikes come! Sometimes you can even get a little scared of them when they're whistling by on the sidewalks. Why not have two-lane bike paths? Amazing – a quick file for gentlemen in tights that flash by and one for us ordinary mortals! In addition, bicycle traffic in the city is fast. There's nothing faster. It is by far the most effective way in every way. What a lovely urban environment, and a little it costs! If you build a 74 billion-dollar cycle path, you can take one lap around the world the next, right? You don't get a lot of road tunnel for that money. So it's an incredibly money-efficient and eco-efficient health benefit thing, in every way amazing. It is then that we in Parliament are saying that now we want to invest in this. We wait for our glorious national strategy, and then we'll get started-- pling, pling!
i-278af95acb98fc01-736	Mr President, I would like to One could say that the Transport Committee was out cycling in the previous report, but it is probably too Gothenburgian for it to be right in its place. We turn to the cultural issues in the report KrU4 Culture and leisure for children and young people. This is the most priority cultural area for us Moderates and for the Alliance. I support all the reservations contained in the report, but I only ask for the approval of reservation 4. Culture concerns us all throughout our lives. By giving children as much access as possible to culture, we give them the greatest opportunities for the future. Children's development takes place through play, dance and imagination. Reading gives us a language that we can use as a tool to assimilate education, get to know other worlds and take part in the democratic conversation. Books, movies, music, and writing help many children through the existential broodings and sorrows of their teens. Children who come from homes where literature and art do not play a prominent role are at risk of poor language development, more difficult to assimilate knowledge at school and ultimately less able to assert themselves as adults in a more knowledge-intensive Swedish labour market. That is why we in the Alliance give priority to children's right to culture. Understanding what culture means for a person's linguistic, intellectual and emotional development is important. It is in this context that the reform of the Alliance government Creative school and the investment in children's reading are so important. We are pleased that more and more people have joined these initiatives. The number of bookshelves at home or the extent to which parents visit museums and theatres should never be decisive for children's opportunities to participate in culture. In this report we have a proposal to extend Creative School also to upper secondary school. We will come back to that several times in the future. Mr President, I would like to In relation to my request for reservation 4, it is important that we keep the memories alive between the generations of what happened in the 1930s and 1940s and also what happens today when Nazism and xenophobia dominate Europe's development. Mona Sahlin has in Aftonbladet today a very good article that everyone should read. It is important that we vaccinate the growing generations against totalitarian ideologies, that on site in Auschwitz and other concentration camps we can see what humanity is capable of when we release the barriers. It is important to combat xenophobia, and that is why we think it is so important to review the possibility of subsidies to carry out school trips to concentration camps. We hope that we can get an investigation, and we wish that more parties supported this initiative against xenophobia. I now turn to the policy of the current minority government for children and young people. Their priorities are completely incomprehensible if you have the best interests of children in mind. Mr President, I would like to Let me take two examples. Firstly, the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party have chosen to invest SEK 100 million in a maximum rate in municipal cultural schools, although all experience shows that this will benefit children who already go to municipal cultural schools with high fees in municipalities around the major cities – in other words, children from economically strong and often culturally interested homes. This action does not help those in line who do not come to and do not have access to the opportunity to practise culture. I hope that those of you who are responsible will explain in this debate how you have thought so that we can see the light. The second example, Mr President, is that from the day before yesterday, on 1 February, we, who are over 18 years old, can freely walk into state museums – at their basic exhibitions. This 80-million-dollar investment mainly benefits foreign tourists and those who already visit museums. How it should benefit children and young people is written in the stars. We are concerned that it impairs children's and young people's access to all exhibitions, as even the Minister for Culture has not been able to give information on whether the so-called free entrance should also apply to special exhibitions. I call on Anna Wallentheim, Niclas Malmberg and Rossana Dinamarca, who are behind this, to explain what will apply to children up to 18 years of age regarding special exhibitions. When the Alliance took office, access to museums was fundamentally changed. It was possible for museums to charge an entrance fee for adults, while children and young people up to the age of 19 were given free access to all exhibitions – all exhibitions, Mr President. It was a significant increase in quality and a fair and reasonable reform that has been evaluated by the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis and others. We know that with quality exhibitions, museums can attract visitors, young and old, to the same extent if not more than when it was free entry.
i-278af95acb98fc01-754	One final question for you: How will the museum's people find their way to the museums? There's nothing written about it. It's just talk. I will end by saying as Mona Sahlin says in today's Aftonbladet: It's about acting right, not just talking right.
i-278af95acb98fc01-755	Mr President, I would like to I would first of all like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 on the right of young people to choose partners. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal for a decision. In this report we have a number of issues of importance to children and young people. I agree with the majority of the committees – a lot is being done in many of these areas. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we have several proposals to make culture accessible to children and young people, which will come back in different forms in reports this spring. But I was going to dwell on something that has received a lot of attention over the past year and recently. Today, in our cultural area, it is the rule rather than the exception that marriage is made out of love and on a voluntary basis between the two spouses. For us in the Nordic region, it is a matter of course. In many countries in the Middle East, it is rather a utopia. In these days of migration to Europe and Sweden, cultural clashes occur, for example because of differences in view of marriage. Lack of governance and lack of cultural self-esteem pave the way for an archaic view of marriage and sexual abuse, as we have seen on an accelerating scale over the past year. This is a really serious situation for many children and young people. In our country, child and forced marriages are criminal. Even so, they do. It is time to act, mark and teach these people to take the custom where they come from. Unless others do. If we do not do so wisely and carefully in this House, we see that groups can do so in other ways, and we do not want to be involved in that. A 2009 survey showed that there could then be more than 70 000 young people in Sweden who were subject to forced marriages or restrictions on choice of partner, usually due to the expectations or demands of the immediate family. Recently, we have seen an extensive monitoring and debate of the phenomenon of forced marriage and especially child marriage in Sweden. The center partyist municipal politician Thomas Lindberg put it this way in a statement in Smålandsposten: It may seem astounding and totally unacceptable. Which other in Sweden criminalised acts should we excuse that they are established in other cultures? Swedish law applies in Sweden; it is as simple as that. Juno Blom, who is responsible for the support line available at national level, explained in Svenska Dagbladet last July that the problem is extensive. Nearly 500 cases had been captured, of which 93 concerned issues of child and forced marriage. It was known that at least 11 had been married off against their will and perhaps had had their whole lives ruined. Blom calls for extensive review and ongoing national studies. It is a step in the right direction, but it is regrettable that we cannot take a greater grasp of this in committee by enabling ongoing national studies to lead to conclusions on what framework and tools are needed. Many, for example, are calling for more stringent legislation. The County Administrative Board in Östergötland has a national assignment, a government assignment, to work on these issues. Interim report – National Skills Team reports the results of a limited and limited-term survey. At the same time, more recent statistics from the Crime Prevention Council show that the problem continues. This demonstrates the need for ongoing national surveys and analyses. This could, in the long run, provide us with sharper tools and bases for legislation that may need to be strengthened or put in place.
i-278af95acb98fc01-767	Mr President, I would like to The clear priority of the Alliance government and the Center Party during the last mandates has been children's and young people's right to and access to culture throughout the country. It was manifested not least in a clear and consistent cultural policy, where the Creative School and the Cultural Co-operation Model were two important building blocks – two building blocks with clear centre party marks. Creating school is an important contribution to children's and young people's ability to communicate with culture but also to practice culture. In Creative School, which is run from a center party movement, all students in a class get to experience and participate in cultural creation under the leadership of professional cultural workers. Whether by writing, painting, dancing, playing music or any other cultural expression, the individual develops in many different ways. Evaluations of the Creative School show how children's and young people's participation and influence develop when culture takes place in school. It also shows that Creative School is a unique initiative that must continue to live and develop on its own terms. It is good that an investigation is now looking at how national programs in high school can include aesthetic subjects. But an aesthetic subject in high school cannot be equated with Creative School. The very encounter between the students and the professional culture maker, who might not otherwise end up in this meeting, is a core of the Creative School. It is a meeting that takes place during class time but not a ba rt as an aesthetic subject. I would like to see the aesthetic subject re-imposed in upper secondary school, if it can be implemented in practice. But it cannot replace what Creative School could mean for upper secondary school. Creating school also has no curriculum or rating scale. Developing one's talent in a freer cultural activity strengthens one's faith in oneself and understanding for others. It also contributes to an improved working environment in schools, and the students' self-esteem and self-confidence are strengthened. The next natural step should therefore be that, in the long term, high school can also take part in Creative School. Mr President, I would like to The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child recognises, among other things, the right of the child to participate freely in cultural and artistic life. A special investigator was appointed by the Alliance Government to review the compliance of the application of laws and other regulations with the rights of the child. At the end of this month, the investigator shall report on his mission. In the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we can read that every child has the right to take part in the cultural offering that exists for adults but also the right to his or her own cultural offering created especially for children and young people. Children's and young people's right to culture is therefore a priority in national cultural policy – and ever since the two mandates of the Alliance Government. Therefore, according to their instructions, the authorities in the field of culture must also integrate a child perspective into their activities. As part of the Alliance's priority of children's and young people's right to culture, children's and young people's reading was also an important part of the Alliance's cultural policy. Many of the reading promotion activities were carried out in close cooperation between the cultural sector and the education sector. Mr President, I would like to The opportunity to take part in culture and create itself through digital technology must be exploited. Being able, as a child or young person, to use the network for creation and education, as well as for social contacts, is now a matter of course and, at the same time, an advantage to be welcomed. To be at the forefront in this area as a country is important, and we can also see examples of what this can lead to. For example, we have a successful Swedish industry for computer games and app development, a creative entrepreneurship that engages many people. We do not know what new cultural expressions will arise as technology develops. This requires an open public approach so that young people's activities on the Internet can also be supported. However, we must be aware that there are violations such as bullying, threats and harassment online. This is increasingly the case as more and more interaction takes place online. It is therefore important to work actively to combat this, not least when it comes to threats and bullying against children and young people, who are often in a vulnerable position. Much work on this was initiated by the Alliance government, and it continues. We have heard that reported today. However, we must not settle down and continue to take responsibility and demonstrate in words and deeds that we cannot in any way tolerate violations in any form. We owe it to our children and young people. Mr President, I would like to I agree with reservations 5 and 7, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 5.
i-278af95acb98fc01-783	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support the reservations I have called for in committee, but for time to come, I only ask for reservation 6. I naturally support the other requests made and will be made by my alliance friends in the debate. Mr President, I would like to Children need art, stories, poems and music just as much as they need love, food, fresh air and play. This is what Philip Pullman says, who took the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award, the 2005 ALMA Prize. Mr President, I would like to High quality children's culture stimulates imagination and creativity. Society, the public, we have a special responsibility for all children and young people to grow through professional cultural experiences and their own creation, regardless of their background. Therefore, the alliance government decided in 2009 to give the issue the highest political priority. For the first time ever, the right of children and young people to culture was established as a national cultural policy objective. This meant that the state cultural institutions were given the task of designing strategies for children and young people and of prioritising children and young people when resources and grants were to be allocated within the cultural field, just as Per Lodenius was just at work. Half of the support for the free theatre groups goes to projects and activities aimed at children and young people. But that's not enough. We need to move forward with targeted efforts to ensure that other art, other stories, poetry, music and performing arts experiences become a natural and permanent feature during childhood and schooling. The school has a unique ability in society to reach all children and young people. Therefore, the Alliance Government invested SEK 170 million per year in school culture through the Creative School project. Here dancers, writers, actors, artists and filmmakers collaborate long-term with the school to integrate cultural and artistic expressions into the school's work. Children, parents, educators and cultural creators around Sweden can testify to the positive effects of Creative School. Self-esteem, creativity and critical thinking are things that often start when children play an instrument for the first time, take their place on stage, write a story or perform a self-composed piece of music. A society where all children can express themselves and participate in cultural life is a society where everyone's living conditions and stories can fit. That is why we Liberals will continue to give priority to the place of children and young people in cultural policy. I therefore support reservations 5 and 7 even if I do not support them. Of course, this is what Per Lodenius described: It would be a favor if the good Creative School could be expanded to include upper secondary school. It's important. Mr President, I would like to Scenture art can be an incredibly strong and revolutionary experience for a child. Scenture art is making the difficult thing talkable. It makes us develop as people, which is important for us to understand each other and to build a society together – that we have the ability to see ourselves in others and not only identify with what is like us but also with what is different from us. Art can be something that is different from reality, but it can become a truer picture of reality than the direct image. The stage art is created in the moment. It is a collective shared experience that can stimulate our imagination to see another possible reality. It makes a childhood richer and more fun. Therefore, we have exercised that performing arts should be a given in children's upbringing and schooling. Far from all children today have the opportunity to meet the performing arts. A student can go through his entire schooling, nine years, without seeing a single theatre performance. That is why, Mr President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 6. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to turn to the important exercise on school trips to the extermination camps. We face various anti-democratic manifestations of racism and xenophobia on a daily basis, and unfortunately all too often, via the media, we are forced to access information about crimes and abuse with racist and Nazi protagonists – in 2016. It is therefore important that we work with our democracy and the rights and obligations it gives us. One way is to travel to the places where the worst horrors of our time happened not long ago. We know that for those who have participated in study trips to these important sites, it has been the prelude to active work in different ways at home – both work of a preventive nature and more urgent interventions when something happens at their own school, in their own municipality. We Liberals are convinced that work against racism, Nazism and xenophobia begins with the individual, and that must be done locally. But support for this, Mr President, may well be national. That's why I'm in favour of travel 4. Mr President, I would like to It was not the evil of the few men but the silence of many people that made the Holocaust possible.
i-278af95acb98fc01-798	Mr President, I would like to We are debating culture and leisure for children and young people. I support the reservations that I have called for in committee - 3, 5 and 7 - but for time-winning, I only ask for the approval of reservation 7. I would like to refer to three areas in the report on the basis of my reservations. The first is children and young people online. The Alliance government set up an investigation to analyse, among other things, criminal protection when people are exposed to threats and violations of various kinds, and today it is presented at DN Debate by the lawman Gudrun Antemar. She has looked at this and wants to improve the protection of the privacy of online hatred and threats. There are investigations, efforts, surveys, campaigns and dedicated websites to focus on the problems associated with the use of the internet. The focus has also been on parental responsibility, including through Safer Internet Day, a day celebrated in 90 countries on 9 February, i.e. in a few days' time. Sweden, as noted in the media, will have an age limit for social media in connection with Sweden's transposition of the new EU Data Protection Regulation. It is reported to enter into force in about two years' time. For many children and young people, the internet is a positive place, a place where they can stay in touch with friends, search for information for school projects, play games, watch movies, listen to music and discover the world. The network is also important for the language development of children and young people. However, as we heard earlier, there are studies showing that as many as 66,000 young people are being violated on the Internet. In other words, threats, violations and bullying are a major problem affecting individual children and young people, creating fear, loneliness, despair and wounds for the lives of many young people. We Christian Democrats are proposing that work begin in order to urgently develop a strategy to strengthen efforts to address the violations and harassment of children and young people. Mr President, I would like to The second area I want to mention is Creative School. I remember that when I worked as a teacher in high school during the 70s and early 80s we had quite a lot of visits by professional cultural workers at school. I remember Eva Rydberg and Lasse Kühler in particular. Lasse was a dancer, and we were very impressed. The students thought it was fun when they came and showed their tricks. I remember the Crazy Monkeys, who came to our school in Uddevalla at the very beginning of their career. Then it was probably that much of this disappeared. When the Creative School was introduced during the alliance government, the opportunity was reopened, now emphasising that cultural workers, students and staff are active and creative. As a professional cultural creator for many years, I think it is absolutely sovereign. This is also a matter of concern to us Christian Democrats. Research shows that children who have regular contact with cultural activities have a greater ability to recognise and express their feelings. That ability is crucial to understanding other people's feelings and empathy. This will develop the child's cognitive ability and competence. We believe that it is time for Creative School to include students in upper secondary school. Students should have more access to culture, not less. We want to review the possibility of extending Creative School so that it also applies to upper secondary school. Mr President, I would like to The third area is children's and young people's right to culture. We as alliance parties believe in our reservation that the alliance government's efforts on culture for children and young people should be taken into account in the formulation of future policy – creating school, reading promotion and emphasising our common cultural heritage. I would like to talk about the open space in order to describe my view of cultural heritage and that of the Christian Democrats. In the School Act, it says this: a knowledge of one's own and participation in the common cultural heritage provides a secure identity that is important to develop together with the ability to understand and live into other people's conditions and values. ..................................................... We stand in our country at a cultural policy crossroads where there are two extremes: on one side aggressive nationalism and on the other side total assimilation. In between, there is an open space marked by a decent way of arguing for cultural heritage, which binds us together. Anyone who is an immigrant to Sweden must relate to this. In Swedish cultural heritage, we have something in common. It is about fundamental values, respect for each individual and democracy. It is about freedom of thought, conscience, freedom of expression and freedom to practice religion. This does not contradict the fact that we respect those who come here with a different view. On the contrary – it affirms and is a guarantor of it. So I can sum up my view and that of the Christian Democrats on the open space. We all have something in common—we are human beings and will shape a future for the country and the world together. The point is that it is not the extremes that should fill the open space, but in this open space we Christian Democrats, together with other democrats, will have arguments and proposals that create community and faith in the future.
i-278af95acb98fc01-814	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media is in the Chamber today in order to debate, among other things, the report known as Culture and Leisure for children and young people. For us social democrats, constantly having a clear perspective on children and young people is a matter of course, especially when we are going to discuss issues relating to various forms of intervention, positions and ideas relating to these particular groups. In order to achieve the national cultural policy objectives, particular attention shall be paid to the right of children and young people to culture. What we are discussing today in this House, that is, children's and young people's right to culture and leisure time, is not just something that is desirable or something that we should take into account in our positions, but is a priority for achieving national cultural policies. In addition to national cultural policy objectives, several UN articles in the Convention on the Rights of the Child discuss children's right to culture – that children should be able to participate freely in cultural and artistic life. Not only should children and young people have the right to enjoy the culture that exists for adults, but they should also have the right to culture that is created specifically for them. Mr President, I would like to In the Government budget, which was passed in December 2015, there are several initiatives focusing on children and young people. To my delight and to the delight of many others, we find some of these efforts precisely within the activities of the Committee on Culture. Unfortunately, however, the bourgeois parties reject these efforts, which we believe make a big difference for children and young people. In the 2016 budget bill, the government has, among other things, an annual investment of SEK 100 million for the municipal music and culture school, an investment that will, among other things, keep the high tariffs down, because they are unfortunately an obstacle for many children and young people to be able to participate in this type of activity. But they also aim to increase accessibility, increase equality and ensure that we have a supply of competent teachers who will be able to operate within the music and culture school. This is an initiative that has a clear children's and young people's perspective and will promote children's and young people's opportunities to participate actively in cultural life. We Social Democrats believe that no children and no young people should be kept out of this activity because of high tariffs or that the risk of lack of teachers should make it impossible to participate. Another important investment in the budget is the government's investment in sport. We believe that a strong sports movement is important in order to give as many children and young people as possible the chance of active leisure time. The fact that sports activities for children and young people are conducted from the perspective of children's rights is a must in order to be entitled to state support. This means, among other things, that we have an understanding of what childhood in itself means, that we should not see our children as future senior or elite athletes, but that we see them here and now and understand that today's activity is what is important. Sport is and should be open to everyone. Unfortunately, however, there are still groups that do not participate in sport to the same extent as others. It is therefore gratifying for us Social Democrats that the sports movement is currently looking at how to reach more and new groups that will be able to participate jointly in the sports community. To help in this work, the government has, among other things, increased state support for sport with a focus on, among other things, children's and young people's sports. In addition, we provide more resources for sport in order, among other things, to help in the establishment of new arrivals. In addition to the two initiatives that I have explained a little more in detail, we have three additional initiatives that I would like to mention. We have free access to state museums, we have cultural activities in certain residential areas, and we have given more resources to Creative School, so that preschools can also be included in the framework of this. There are three initiatives that are not only important initiatives but also have a cultural value. But we also see that they have a clear perspective on children and young people. Mr President, I would like to If we focus a little on the movements that have been discussed earlier in the debate, we find motions that deal with children's rights to knowledge about the Convention on the Rights of the Child and some exercise around the Creative School. The right of young people to choose their partners, children and young people online and children's and young people's right to culture etc. have been discussed. However, I look at the clock that I will not be able to discuss it in such detail. I hope that Niklas, who comes after me, will be able to pick up some of them. I can say that the teacher in me is a little disappointed, because I wanted to talk about children and young people on the Internet but do not have time to do so. However, I would like to point out that many of these motions contain intentions that the government is already working on. We've got investigations under way. We have dialogue meetings with stakeholders. We have certain legislative changes, for example in relation to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is a work that is already under way. Much of the exercise we are basically behind. However, there is one motion that I ask myself a little bit of question about, and that is the one that concerns the extension of Creative School to high school. As a high school teacher, I believe that one of the biggest mistakes was to remove the aesthetic subjects from high school. I do not think that expanding Creative School is enough to compensate for that loss. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to conclude by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Culture to be approved in the KRU4 report and, therefore, calling for all reservations to be rejected.
i-278af95acb98fc01-828	Mr President, I would like to You missed my introduction. There I asked a number of questions to Anna Wallentheim, among others. I have hardly received any answers, and that is why I have requested a reply. First of all, I must comment that this report does not concern sport, which Anna Wallentheim maintained for a long time. We will later have the opportunity to talk about it. But that is the case: empty barrels that rattle must talk about other things than the important issues contained in this report. Anna Wallentheim began by saying that it always has a child and youth perspective but not that it was the main priority issue. That is the difference between us in the Alliance and you in the Social Democrats. You have a constant perspective – not the main cultural priority. So for these two initiatives: How will the maximum rate in municipal cultural school give more teachers in cultural schools? How does it provide higher access to the cultural school for the children who are currently in line? It would be very nice to have it clarified, if Anna Wallentheim could give us an answer to this. In fact, it is important for those children who today need to enter municipal cultural schools. Anna Wallentheim spoke of children having the right to culture, to create for children. But explain to the Swedish people what free admission for foreign tourists and experienced museum visitors in the inner city of Stockholm, which has been introduced for two days, has been associated with it!
i-278af95acb98fc01-833	Mr President, I would like to I hope the time will be sufficient, so that I can answer as many of your questions as possible, because it was quite a lot. I want to start with the cultural part itself. I would like to point out that we are spending more money on culture than the alliance parties do. We also have more initiatives that will benefit children and young people. You mentioned that I was talking about sports. But I think that sport is a fairly important initiative, because it is also about culture and leisure time for children and young people. When it comes to music and culture school, it is a problem that you mention, Cecilia. Of course, there are some areas where there are very high charges. However, these municipalities are usually moderate-led. There they have chosen to have low taxes, which has caused them to triple the fees to the music and culture school. When we invest 100 million, it is not obvious that all that money should go to those municipalities. There are fantastic municipalities that not only have low fees, but in some municipalities it is even free to participate. Of course, they should also receive this money. If you have dared to invest in the music and culture school, it would be strange if you then don't get to take part of the investment that we do now. It should be able to lead to more competent teachers but also to wider choice of alternatives. I have a lot to say about free admission. Most often we get criticism, when we want free admission to our museums, that it is about people who already go to museums or tourists. But then I think Cecilia Magnusson and the Moderates are missing the broad perspective, how we can reach more children and young people. I think it is a huge win that when you get to go on a school visit and become interested and enthusiastic about what you have seen, you can go home to your family and say: I want to go there again.
i-278af95acb98fc01-839	Mr President, I would like to It was not much of a response that Anna Wallentheim managed to achieve, especially as regards how to get better access to municipal music schools or more teachers with a maximum rate. Every child in this country needs to know that. As Anna Wallentheim cannot answer my previous questions, I would like to ask a third question. Now, if you are behind our motions, such as the possibility of investigating school trips to extermination camps, why did you not agree to it? Why did the other proposals made by the Alliance not go along with them? Mona Sahlin said very correctly in today's Aftonbladet that it is a matter of acting, Anna Wallentheim, not just talking. Talking right is good, but acting right is much better, I think. Now answer the question of how free admission for adults, foreign tourists and middle-aged older ladies on Östermalm will benefit children and young people and, above all, museum-old people. How will this investment benefit them? Tell us about these important issues now, please!
i-278af95acb98fc01-843	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the music and culture school, Cecilia Magnusson, like the rest of the parties, should be aware that, in addition to this initiative, which should now be able to go directly to a reduction in certain fees, we have appointed an investigator who has been tasked with reviewing and developing a national strategy for the municipal music school. Among other things, we want to look at the accessibility perspective. Just as you say, Cecilia Magnusson, we need to reach more. How are we supposed to reach more people? That's what this investigation is going to look at. As for the Holocaust and the trips to concentration camps, I am one of the first to point out how important it is that we never forget our history. I've been working as a high school teacher and a high school teacher and I know how extremely important it is that we work with this in school. I was one of the lucky ones to visit a concentration camp during one of my school trips. However, many municipalities have already invested money to enable schools to go to these concentration camps. In addition, there are already grants to apply for. That is why we are currently saying that we do not need to review this because efforts have already been made. But I promise that we will try to look at this, because I also think it is important. But there are grants to apply for. When it comes to free admission, it's just like I said. If you are visiting a school class and are walking from a museum with a burning interest, I want all children to feel that they can come home and say to their parents: You know what, I want to go there again. All children and young people in our country who have an interest in art, culture and history should be able to say to their grandmother, their grandfather and their older siblings: Today we can go to a museum. Not all children and young people have had this opportunity when there were fees. In addition, more parents have the opportunity to bring their children to museums.
i-278af95acb98fc01-849	Mr President, I would like to Promises before elections are, of course, very important. Promises are something people take seriously. It gives voters, and you get a basis to create a government. You make promises to people, and they go and vote. A promise can easily be a goal, as we have learned. But for me, a promise is a promise. A person close to me said the following in the run-up to the 2014 elections: I can imagine voting for the Social Democrats if they lower the fees in the cultural school. I'm counting on a loved one to vote for me. That's why it got a little rough. But it was obviously so important to this person. This person could consider voting for S if, as they have said, they lower the fee in the cultural school. My question is: what do you say, Anna Wallentheim, to my loved ones and others who are not told about this? They wonder what happened and happens with this money and the promised reduction in the fee to the cultural school. What do you say to them?
i-278af95acb98fc01-854	Mr President, I would like to Just as Roland Utbolt mentions, election promises are extremely important. I think it is important to be able to look their voters in the eye after an election and say: We are working as much as we can to achieve as many of our electoral promises as possible. However, we are in a situation where it is a matter of giving and taking when we do not have our own majority. It is something that I believe the Christian Democrats also discovered during their years in power during the time of the bourgeois alliance government. As far as music and culture schools are concerned, I have no problem looking my constituents in the eye and saying: at last something is going to happen. Of course, SEK 100 million annually will be able to lead to lower fees where they are high. At the same time, the municipalities that are good at keeping these fees down should of course be able to take part of the money. It is important for music and culture schools to operate throughout the country and for all children to be able to take part in their activities. We have seen that a first obstacle is the high tariffs, which are one of the reasons why not all children can take part in this activity. We think it is very important to keep these costs down. But I would also like to point out, therefore, that municipalities that today are good should not have to suffer from it. I do not want to see, of course, that we have municipalities that are suddenly raising their tariffs in order to receive the money. They must be able to benefit from these resources in other ways.
i-278af95acb98fc01-860	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anna Wallentheim for her reply. However, I am not at all sure that my loved one is completely satisfied with what you describe. Here the promise became a goal. They say you have to give and take. Then who is it that you disagree with in the government? One of you must have given something away to take something else. What is the plan for this 100 million a year over three years? Can you describe it? I know there will be an investigation in September. But what have you been thinking here? There are 100 million now in the pot, and the investigation is due at the end of September. Then 100 million will be used for next year. You have to give me an explanation of how you're thinking with the $100 million that's now squeezing somewhere.
i-278af95acb98fc01-862	Mr President, I would like to Just as Roland Utbolt says, there is an investigation under way that we get answers from later this year. But as he also mentions, there is a pot of money already now. We are talking about 100 million already in 2016. Of course, we have already said that one of the first priorities is to review the high charges. That is something we can begin to grasp quite directly. We can ensure that the municipalities with high fees can reduce them. Then I hope and believe, from what I have heard from the Department, that this investigation will also show how the money can be used effectively for the whole country. I see the possibility that we should make sure that we have more competent teachers, that we should broaden the supply in those municipalities that have low fees and that we should make sure that we use this money so that children and young people around Sweden will be part of this business. But there are SEK 100 million for this year, and we therefore believe that this money should be used to reduce the high fees.
i-278af95acb98fc01-866	Mr President, I would like to In Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's first government declaration, he highlighted the ambition to bring the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. The government has been working on this issue, and in a few weeks' time we will see the results of the investigation. It shall be presented by 28 February at the latest. Despite this, Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals are now calling for an announcement from the Riksdag to the Government that it will work on issues related to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That's what they call breaking open doors, isn't it? But I hope that this means that it is not just mouthstorms from Bengt Eliasson's side, but that the Liberals can consider supporting a forthcoming proposal to actually transpose the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. It would be nice if Bengt Eliasson could give a concrete answer to this question. Will the Liberals support a forthcoming bill? I will go into concrete children's and young people's cultural policy and begin by answering a question from Roland Utbolt. He asked why the fee levels in music and culture schools have not already been reduced. The answer that Roland Utbolt can take home to his loved ones is that the alliance parties together with the Swedish Democrats shot the first red-green budget bill in mind. The reform has been delayed for a year because the alliance parties and the Swedish Democrats acted together. Since 1 January, the red-green cultural policy has finally been in place. The ambition increase for the music and culture school is of course an important piece of the puzzle. Please complete the debate a little! Cecilia Magnusson highlighted as one of the important elements of the red-green cultural policy to strengthen the funding for the music and culture school. That's it. But Cecilia Magnusson has got the reform completely wrong. The aim is to give children and young people equal access to music and culture school regardless of the municipality of origin. It shouldn't matter where in the country a child grows up. Access to the music and culture school should be available. It looks different in the different municipalities of the country. On some holes l, there are problems with long queues. Elsewhere there are problems with high charges. In other municipalities, the problem is that the activity is limited. This is why it is a very important investigation that works on how we can ensure the accessibility of the music and culture school throughout the country. I look forward to the results of the investigation later in the year. Creative school has also been debated here. From a red-green perspective, we have increased the ambition of the Creative School by including preschools in our operations. There the alliance parties want to do exactly the opposite. Instead of including preschool, you want to include upper secondary school. At the same time, the alliance parties do not allocate more resources to the Creative School. Some of the alliance parties even provide lower resources than the government's budget bill. By including upper secondary school in Creative School, we would then have a situation where we are forced to cut back on the activities of primary school. It speaks totally against what Bengt Eliasson says about the importance of the first cultural meeting. Bengt Eliasson raises the problem that a child can go nine years through comprehensive school without having contact with, for example, the art of theatre. At the same time, the Liberals, together with the rest of the Alliance, come forward with a proposal to reduce the level of funding for the Creative School in comprehensive school and further impair that possibility. That, of course, is quite the wrong way to go. In principle, I am very much in favour of including Creative School in upper secondary school, but then there must be budget resources. I am convinced that what is gnawing here is a bad conscience on the part of the alliance parties after the aesthetic subjects were phased out as compulsory subjects in all secondary education except for the aesthetic programme. I am grateful for Per Lodenius' 180-degree reversal. Per Lodenius says that he can actually consider meeting an upcoming bill to return aesthetic subjects to all upper secondary school courses. I would also like to hear from other alliance parties how they stand on this issue. Are you prepared to return the aesthetic subjects to all the programmes of upper secondary school? Here, too, we will see an upcoming investigation. It will be presented in June. A bill can be presented if there is a political majority in the Riksdag. The argument of the Alliance parties when the aesthetic subjects were abolished from the upper secondary school program was that they stole time from the more theoretical subjects, even though the research shows that it is exactly the opposite. Access to aesthetic substances fertilises and makes conditions even better to assimilate the theoretical subjects. I look forward to the possibility of re-establishing aesthetic subjects in all the programmes of upper secondary school. However, Per Lodenius must agree that it is somehow more important to have an activity that reaches all upper secondary school students than an activity that only benefits some of the upper secondary school students. I support the proposal in the Culture Committee's report and reject all reservations.
i-278af95acb98fc01-878	Mr President, I would like to I had expected Niclas Malmberg to defend the report a little more. Instead, he talks about issues that are not even dealt with in the report or to which we have called for the approval of reservations. I asked a number of questions in my speech, and I hoped that environmentalist Niclas Malmberg, close to power in the Ministry of Culture, could answer some simple questions. How will more children get access to municipal music school with maximum tax? Anna Wallentheim could not answer that question, so I hope Niclas Malmberg. In the question of everyone getting free admission to the state museums, how should special exhibitions be available? Are all children to be admitted freely to special exhibitions, as it has been so far, or will you impair quality? How will you ensure that the quality of government museums with less money is maintained and improved? The 80 million dollars will not even be enough for increased cleaning service. How are the museums going to get museum people to get there? There's no extra money for that. It would be grateful if the man of power Niclas Malmberg, Mr President, could answer these simple questions.
i-278af95acb98fc01-882	Mr President, I would like to I thought I gave Cecilia Magnusson answers about the music and culture schools. It is not a one-sided focus on maximum rates, as Cecilia Magnusson wants it to be. Cecilia Magnusson should instead read the basis for the decision. There is an ongoing investigation here that will complement the decision that has already been taken. As for the museums, I can provide some information. Cecilia Magnusson asks how we can reach the museum's unpaved. In fact, the mere decision to introduce free entrance into museums has received tremendous attention. It says about it in the papers, and it shows on TV and it's heard on the radio. The groups that are not used to going to museums now see that it is free to go to museums without having to pay large fees. It is a successful way to reach the museum's unpaved. Cecilia Magnusson does not quite realise that the freedom of charge for small children does not allow young children to get to the museums. Young children need to have their parents with them in order to get to the museums at all. Now that we are introducing free admission even for adults, it opens up access for younger children.
i-278af95acb98fc01-885	Mr President, I would like to That wasn't much of a response. Niclas Malmberg talked in his speech about equal access to the music school. But how do you get more teachers? How do you get the lines off? How do you get more access? It is a fact that reality today is quite different from what Niclas Malmberg describes. It is very possible that this investigation that Niclas Malmberg is clinging to will provide some answers and show the reality to Niclas Malmberg and the Minister for Culture. But until then, many people believe that there will be a lower rate in the cultural school. I believe that the Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party are involved in fraud. I asked a question about the special exhibitions for children at state museums. Will there be free access for children, just like today, at special exhibitions in state museums? The Minister for Culture has not responded. Can Niclas Malmberg answer in Parliament's chamber today?
i-278af95acb98fc01-889	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Culture has given a clear answer to the question. The museums have the freedom to decide the matter for themselves. Some museums may have special exhibitions freely, but not all museums are likely to have them. But access to state museums at all is greatly improved by the fact that we have free admission for all age groups. Again: The younger children, a seven- or eight-year-old, are not happy to visit a museum on their own. The eight-year-old needs an adult to come with him. With the policy of the alliance parties, it actually means a fee for children, for the children have an accompanying parent. To go back to music and culture schools, Cecilia Magnusson misleads voters by talking loudly about something where you do not have a policy at all. It is the red-green parties that now allocate SEK 100 million to the music and cultural schools. It cannot in any way impair the operation. Then, as I mentioned earlier, the situation in the various municipalities is very different. And what the investigation finally comes to, we don't know yet. Perhaps it is the case that we need legislation that establishes that a music and cultural school should be in place in all municipalities. It may be that a national strategy is sufficient to work together to create a music and culture school in all municipalities. The political ambition is that it should not matter what municipality you grow up to have. Children and young people, wherever they grow up, must have access to a music and cultural school. Then we can see it in a broader perspective. Sweden is the only country in the Nordic countries that does not have a government policy that regulates access to a music and cultural school. It is perhaps time that Sweden joined the policy pursued in the other Nordic countries.
i-278af95acb98fc01-894	Mr President, I would like to Niclas Malmberg! Sometimes it is not good to write too much of your speech before the debate. I did not mention our party motion on the Convention on the Rights of the Child at all in my speech. However, Christina Örnebjär will do so at the end of the debate. Niclas Malmberg was now ahead of us on this issue. But we have been leading the work since 2009, as far as possible we can overlook this, Mr President. While I have the opportunity to speak in a reply, I would like to ask Mr Niclas a few questions. They relate, on the one hand, to the issue of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as Mr Niclas pointed out, and, on the other hand, to why the Minister for Education, with the Green Party behind him, has repeatedly highlighted the importance of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but not at all emphasised the importance of supporting the organisations of children and young people in education and in school, but, on the other hand, only regards it as a legislative issue. I do not really understand how you think it will then be implemented. I guess we'll see when the investigation gets here in a minute.
i-278af95acb98fc01-896	Mr President, I would like to I referred in my speech to the reservation of Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals, in which the Liberals reserve themselves in favour of an announcement to the government to work further on this issue. On the basis of that reservation, I then put the question back to Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals about the Liberals are prepared to support a bill that is about transposing the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. I do not think I had a clear answer to that. I hope Bengt Eliasson can give it to me now. The ambition to incorporate the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law was made clear in the Government Declaration, and an investigation has been set up. Now we have to let the investigation present its proposal on how to resolve this. We'll see the answer in a few weeks. It will be presented on 28 February. After that, we can proceed with the details of how a bill can be designed.
i-278af95acb98fc01-898	Mr President, I would like to Mr Niclas mentioned the other parts of the report. And I have to ask: what is the Ministry of Culture doing and what is Niclas Malmberg doing to work on what is being discussed in the motion to support school trips to Auschwitz, for example, with several sites to work for anti-racism, anti-Nazism and so on? The second question concerns, and this is something that several speakers have touched upon, free admission to state museums. How will free admission to state museums – most of them located here in the city within the so-called customs – reach the new groups that the government very well wishes to reach and spread this so that the museums can work in the areas where the children live and live? And how will a unilateral investment in state museums reach those who are out in the country? I'd be interested to know that. We have put forward strong proposals on how to support museum activities throughout the country and support the visits of children and young people but also adults throughout their lives on all kinds of museums.
i-278af95acb98fc01-900	Mr President, I would like to First, Bengt Eliasson, I have not experienced that there is at all any problem with getting resources for the school that wants to make a school trip. There is money to support, even if it is not earmarked for the purpose. The schools that actively choose to visit a concentration camp have the opportunity to do so. The big challenge is to meet all those groups who are not actively trying to deal with the situation. In the budget proposal, we have strengthened the resources for the Living History Forum, so that more can be done to clarify not least the crimes of Nazism but also other abuses in the 20th century. That work is extremely important, and we will continue to give priority to that. Then the question of how museums should work to reach new groups is, of course, essentially an issue on which the museums work themselves. I now sit in the jury that will appoint Sweden's best museum and get to see how museums work to reach groups. It's amazing how many creative ideas are around the museums. I do not see here any immediate need to come in with political guidelines on how to meet this. From a political point of view, we have increased funding for museums and made it possible for museums to introduce free admission. But how museums will actually reach new groups, they are professional enough to work with themselves. It is also the case that regional museums do not, of course, meet directly in the budget that is decided. But we have seen how free admission to state museums has spilled over to the regions also taking such hold. There are many county councils and municipalities that are now introducing free admission to the regional and local museums, among other things in Uppsala that I myself come from. We have even seen examples of a private museum now opening free entrance. And when a private museum opens its doors, it must mean that this is something that has seen many positive effects.
i-278af95acb98fc01-908	Mr President, I would like to If you sit on the government, you can also dress up in this House for the proposals that you are making and what you are or are not implementing. That's why I thought I'd call you to account a little bit here, Niclas Malmberg. There was applause from the cultural schools around the country. In the budget text, 100 million were set at reduced fees generally for pupils around the country. So it was discovered that some of this money goes to rich municipalities that have high fees and then receive this subsidy. It can't really handle the left-wing government. You think this isn't good. So now there are 100 million in the lake, and you do not know how to use them. I imagine that dealing with this should be reversed, namely that priority should first be given to what you intend to do and then decide how much money should be spent. Now I ask you, Niclas Malmberg, if you think it is a proper order to first produce 100 million and then decide where the money should go.
i-278af95acb98fc01-912	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to emphasise what I also said in my introduction, namely that this whole reform has been postponed for one year because of the action of the alliance parties. The Swedish Democrats were allowed to support the alliance budget, and so we did not have these resources for last year in the way we would have liked. The resources are now in place. That's 100 million kroner. Roland Utbolt, like Cecilia Magnusson, reads this very narrowly and believes that it could only be about reductions in tariffs. It is not just a question of lowering tariffs. It is also about other measures. Then, of course, it is important to lower the tariffs in municipalities that currently have high tariffs so that all children and young people in those municipalities have an opportunity to participate in the music and culture school. When there are high fees, some socio-economically weak groups do not have the opportunity to participate in the activity, and we want to tackle this problem. A study will be completed later in the year, and the long-term ambition is for children and young people throughout our country, regardless of the municipality of origin, to have access to music and culture school. I asked a question in my speech earlier. I asked Roland Utbolt if he is prepared to go on the same line as Per Lodenius, namely to now support a bill to reintroduce aesthetic subjects on all upper secondary programmes. A guilty conscience shone through among several of the Alliance Party representatives here when one talked about how unfortunate it was that the reform involving removing the aesthetic subjects from the upper secondary programmes was carried out by the Alliance Government. We will see an investigation later in the spring. A bill I hope will mean that we get the aesthetics back in all the programmes of upper secondary school. Are Roland Utbolt and the Christian Democrats also prepared to support such a bill?
i-278af95acb98fc01-918	Mr President, I would like to I think that Niclas Malmberg thinks it's okay to draw up 100 million and not really know how to use them. It becomes a reverse priority, so to speak. I would like to raise the issue of state museums and free admission to them. For this, the government has set aside 80 million, and here there are a number of questions. Who's gonna get in for free and for what? 19 museums, of which 16 in the inner city of Stockholm, are to some extent to introduce free admission at some or all exhibitions. Which are unclear. My question to Niclas Malmberg is: Why do Niclas Malmberg and the Green Party choose a reform that only benefits the big cities? Then I would like to say that, with regard to this report and secondary school, it is precisely the Creative School that we want to introduce into high school.
i-278af95acb98fc01-922	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to state that although most of the state museums are of course located in the big cities, in Stockholm in the main, this does not mean that the reform is limited to just benefiting people living in Stockholm. It is about people visiting Stockholm and other cities having the opportunity to go to these museums. It is especially when you come as a visitor to a city that you want to be able to go to museums. Then you should also have the opportunity to do so, even if, for example, you have a large family and it has involved large costs in the past. So this is a reform which, while only looking at state museums, benefits people throughout the country. The free admission of state museums means that many regions take after and introduce free admission to regional and local museums as well. I highlighted this earlier here in the debate. Uppsala is an example. There we have free entrance at several of the municipal museums. We now also see examples of private museums that are opening free entrance. So this is a reform that has effects far beyond state museums. I find it sad that Roland Utbolt cannot give a straight answer to the question of how the Christian Democrats view the reintroduction of aesthetic subjects in upper secondary schools. From the Center Party we received a clear message, but not from the Christian Democrats. It is hypocritical for the Christian Democrats to talk about the desire to increase the creative school's activities for upper secondary school when at the same time laying down at a lower budget level than the government does in its budget bill. This, in turn, means cutting resources in primary and pre-school schools. If we expand Creative School to include upper secondary school, it means less activity for younger children, who are in greatest need of this activity. Why do the Christian Democrats turn their backs on the younger children?
i-278af95acb98fc01-927	Mr President, I would like to It has been a rather interesting debate. The bourgeois have talked about the importance of giving children and young people access to culture and what it means for their future prospects. But if you study more closely what the bourgeois parties want and have budgeted for, you can, to use Cecilia Magnusson's words, hear empty barrels rattle. One of the major and important reforms to which the Left Party has contributed has already been discussed quite a lot, namely the reduction in fees to cultural school. It is clear that there is a need for many more investments in the cultural school. Reducing charges has been a first step for us. It has also been important for us that the 100 million, which is not an excessive sum, should be used for precisely reduced fees. There are great needs in the cultural school. I look forward to being able to do more things in the future, to further increase accessibility. But this is an important opportunity for many of those who actually can't afford today to give their children the opportunity to take part in those activities – dance, theatre, music, art. Many concerned voices on the right have expressed that this would benefit the very richest. We share that concern. Therefore, it has been important for the Left Party that the distribution of the money should not benefit those municipalities that have not been particularly interested in keeping low fees. It will come to the municipalities that have invested in this, for example Malmö, where the fees have been reduced. Another important reform for children's and young people's cultural intake – or what to say – is the free entrances. It is important that it is a reform that applies to everyone. As previous debaters have highlighted, children do not go to a museum alone. Smaller children need to have an adult with them. It is therefore important that it is a reform that applies to everyone. I might add that when the reform was implemented in 2005, the number of visitors to state museums increased by 2.9 million in that year. That was an increase of 159 percent. I think that those of you who sit over there in the Chamber and I am now looking at can take it with peace. The news that this opportunity exists has reached out to people. A third and last thing I'm going to mention is the motion that Creative School should also apply to high school. This shows once again how the bourgeois try to give the appearance of being interested in the aesthetic activities or culture. When you bring one hand, you try to put it back with the other. The bourgeois government removed the aesthetic elements as nuclear material. It was a degradation of the entire area itself that also seeped down to primary school. They even wanted to go as far as closing down the aesthetic programs. But then there was so much resistance that one did not dare to pursue the plan. However, the most important thing when it comes to giving students access to aesthetic topics is not just that someone should come from outside. What has been problematic about Creative School is that it is mainly exploited by those who are interested, who have teachers or schools with a particular commitment. We know that there are several schools that never take part of the money related to the Creative School. That is why it is important that, if we can get a majority in favour of it, we ensure that the aesthetic subjects are once again nuclear material, including in high school.
i-278af95acb98fc01-936	Mr President, I would like to It's nice to have your expression reused. That's very good. Good can also characterize Rossana Dinamarca. Unlike previous speakers, she has nevertheless answered some of my questions, although she did not hear my questions either in my introduction because she was not in the Chamber at the time. I'm going to start this line by talking about Creative School. When it comes to our proposals for creating schools in high school, it goes without saying that more money should be added. What we are now calling for is a study of the possibilities. Niclas Malmberg tried to suggest, and said unsportsily in his final line, that this would impoverish activities within S cutting school for primary school. That's not true. Under the alliance government, we also provided funds every time we expanded the Creative School. But the Green Party has not been on those tours all the time. When it comes to cultural schools, I have to ask Rossana Dinamarca: How will the initiative that you are behind give more students the opportunity to take part in the cultural school? The high fees are found in rich municipalities around the big cities. How will more students currently in line get access to the municipal cultural schools with the help of a maximum rate? That's what you want. You want reduced fees for those who already have. But how are those who do not have access to the municipal cultural schools to get it with the present proposal?
i-278af95acb98fc01-939	Mr President, I would like to Although I was not in the premises earlier, I heard Cecilia Magnusson's questions very well. After all, we have innovations that allow us to watch the debates in this House on our phones and tablets. So I could hear them. As far as Creative School is concerned, it is, as I said earlier, a pot of money that schools are looking for. It is schools that are interested in doing so. Unfortunately, we have seen that effect; it is the primary schools that are interested that are looking for it. There are schools that never have any project related to Creative School. We believe that this is important to all students. The aesthetic subjects are important for everyone, not just for those students whose teachers are interested in it. Therefore, it would be much better to make the aesthetics a nuclear material in high school again. It could also have repercussions in primary school because it is given priority as an important subject. When you removed the aesthetic subjects such as nuclear material in upper secondary school, Cecilia Magnusson, you signalled to primary school that those subjects are not so important. Now you want to put some Band-Aids on that, to pretend you're interested in those things. As far as cultural school is concerned, this is, once again and as I said in my speech, a step towards making cultural school more accessible. Then we are aware that much more is needed. We need more seats, and we need more teachers. We need to make it possible to rent instruments and so on. But this is a step, and we believe that it is important to use this money for one thing so that it does not become too sprawling and has no effect whatsoever. Once again, Cecilia Magnusson : It is about investing in the municipalities that prioritised the cultural school.
i-278af95acb98fc01-945	Mr President, I would like to It is incredible to hear Rossana Dinamarca talk about the maximum rate in the cultural school without being able to give a single answer about how more people will get access to it. Those who already have will get more. That of something I think is unsolidarical to a left-wing party, but that may not be the case. I must also tell Rossana Dinamarca that all municipalities have had creative school projects. Not all schools – and above all not free schools – have made use of this, but in the short time Creative School has been in force and during that development phase it is the reform that has been widely spread in its implementation ever. I suppose Rossana Dinamarca can admit that. It is clear that the longer the Creative School will exist, the more schools will make use of it. It's obvious. It is an ambition of the Alliance, and I hope it is also that of the Left. Rossana Dinamarca mentioned the possibility for all of us over 18 years of age to enter state museums and boasted that there was an increased number of visitors. Yes, but almost as many people today visit museums with fees, and this is due to the increased quality. I have to ask Rossana Dinamarca, because I thought the Left was behind quality: how can one preserve and expand the quality with the so-called free-entry reform? Now it's turning door and heating cabin.
i-278af95acb98fc01-948	Mr President, I would like to I don't really understand what Cecilia Magnusson means by that last one. Shouldn't the museums be open to anyone? Is that what Cecilia Magnusson means by that it would be a heating cabin? It would be very interesting to hear that answer. I know that Cecilia Magnusson does not have the opportunity for an additional line, but I think it has been a bit meager from Cecilia Magnusson – also in several of the previous lines – when it comes to the way in which visitors would come to the museums. We believe that free admission makes it possible for all people to take part in the exhibitions at our state museums. That is what we help to keep up but that has not been available to all people. That is what we want to open up again, because we see culture as part of welfare. All people should be able to have access to it. As far as the other parts are concerned, it is the same and the same reasoning, that is, culture is well-being. We'll make it available to everyone. When it comes to cultural school, it is about doing so in steps. The Left Party wants to go much further in terms of culture school and fees. We would like to see a zero rate for culture school, so that all children will actually have that option. Now we give 100 million to the cultural school to lower the fees. Then there are other steps we should also take to further increase accessibility, but when Cecilia Magnusson says that the cost does not matter and that it would be giving to those who already have, she is very misinformed about how it works. I see my speaking time is up, so I don't have time to answer when it comes to Creative School. However, we will have the opportunity to discuss this again.
i-278af95acb98fc01-953	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Rossana Dinamarca for a clarification of her main speech. Although, of course, I do not agree with everything in substance, it was clarification in many ways. However, I would still like some clarifications. Rossana Dinamarca spent quite a while debating precisely the question of free admission, and she stressed the importance of free admission being for everyone. I agree that it is important that it be for everyone, but how can Left Party and Rossana Dinamarca say that it is for everyone when 16 of the 19 museums are located in central Stockholm? I don't understand. Robertsfors, Trelleborg and Laholm – how do they benefit from free admission to state museums? Would it not be more important, as we propose, to invest in the museums throughout the country that want to work on the question of entry, and to broaden this proposal considerably? I would therefore like clarification on how free admission to state museums benefits everyone.
i-278af95acb98fc01-956	Mr President, I would like to I thank Bengt Eliasson for the question. What I find a little remarkable when trying to attack a reform such as the one with free entrance is that the bourgeois side does not actually make much greater efforts to increase access to culture. Now this is a part – a reform. Then we can wish for many other reforms, for example, that we could have free access to regional museums or look at how we spread our state museums across the country. There are several issues, but what I see is that this is an important reform. You can't get away from it. You can't say it's unimportant just because most museums are located in Stockholm. This is an important step and an important issue of accessibility. Then maybe we can work together further to expand the reform to become even bigger – what do I know?
i-278af95acb98fc01-959	Mr President, I would like to We already have sharp proposals. We spend more money, and we put it for the whole country instead. I agree that it may be an important reform, but that does not make it right. My second question for clarification concerns the reduction in fees in cultural schools. I cannot help but come back to that, just as my comrades have done in post after post. How will the reduction of fees in the cultural school reach those who really need it? There are a number of municipalities in the country that have worked very well with the fee issue. There are those municipalities that have no fee at all, and then there are different levels up to those that have very high fees. I have not been able to dig really deep for if there are large research reports, but there are simple compilations that I have read and which show that the municipalities that have reduced the fees and those that have had zero rates have benefited the consumption of the cultural school. It's great, but it has benefited those who already consume it. It has not reached those groups which should actually go to cultural school and which need it most, namely vulnerable children and those who do not have parents to support them and take them there for various reasons. My question, then, is how this will reach those who really need it. Is it a unit rate or a zero rate in Sweden that is the target? I'm actually seeing parallels to the extracurricular money. This bet becomes a broad and rather expensive bet that beats blindly, instead of a bet on those who really need it and a bet that pinpoint the children who are most vulnerable.
i-278af95acb98fc01-963	Mr President, I would like to Just a couple of weeks ago I was in Malmö and visited the cultural school there. I met with staff and managers of the cultural school. What you have done there is to work very actively with where you have the cultural school somewhere – where you have your business. You approach those you want to have access to the cultural school. That is one way I see it as important, but in order for it to be actually accessible to those to whom it is addressed, the charging issue is an important part. I do not really think that Bengt Eliasson's concern about how to reach these people has to do with the fees. The fees are an important part, but then it is also about the work you do at cultural schools to reach the right people. To dismiss reduced fees in the cultural school by saying that it will not come to them, I think may be a little strange. It is also about the way in which the cultural schools work. There is a clear mission to target those students who would otherwise not have come into contact with the cultural school. However, the reduction in charges increases the possibility, but then we have many more steps to take.
i-278af95acb98fc01-966	Mr. Speaker? The Culture Committee's report No 4 deals with sports on the subject of culture and leisure for children and young people. It is a theme to which I think we all, regardless of the party, attach high value and think it is important, as previous speakers have also mentioned. Today, I would like to highlight the emphasis on children's and young people's culture, a collaboration between school and professional cultural actors, namely Creative School, which many of you have already mentioned. I am pleased to see that more people are open to what we Swedish democrats are and have been driving in previous years, so we can influence. Today, Creative School has been expanded to include preschool class through grade 9. Creative school is growing out among students, which should make us all happy. Most of the activities are creation, image, form, writing, storytelling and so on where students create something together with cultural actors. It's not just this that's the beauty. The second point of the Creative School is that a certain percentage of the support goes directly to fees to cultural practitioners, which we must not forget. They can therefore work and receive compensation for what they are trained for. We Swedish democrats, as you have heard before, want preschools to also be able to take part of the Creative School, as we proposed last in the autumn budget, just as the Moderates have proposed. In preschool, it is particularly important to take part in the stimulation of culture, and this must be given higher priority than upper secondary school. Therefore, we see it as more reasonable for preschools to take part in Creative School. We also get support from educators in the business. Preschool teachers and children's nurses used to have some competence in the subject of music. You don't get that today in your education. We receive signals from industry educators that this is something that is missing, and Creative School had filled a void here. Children's knowledge is formed at an early age and is so much better by the creation and development that occurs when you take part in art and music, for example. Politics is about prioritising, and here we choose to give priority to young children who do not have the same choices as other young people have later in life. We believe, Mr President, that there are already a lot of options to take part in high school as far as cultural courses are concerned. Among other things, you can choose a line of aesthetic enrichment or choose courses through the student's choice. The risk of the initiative Creative school at upper secondary level seen in parts of the country is that it is competing out the music and cultural schools, and that is not the point or purpose of the Creative School, I think we can all agree with that. But as I said at the beginning, I and we find it gratifying that we are becoming more open up to Creative School. Soon we'll have all the way behind us. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to touch on exercise 2060 on the motor hobby. As many people know, the motor hobby is a great interest for me personally, and there is a reason to look at how the motor hobby can strengthen the long-term, even if this particular exercise goes far into detail. The value of motor sport and motor hobby is great, but many times practitioners are opposed to other interests in society. Therefore, we believe that there is great reason to highlight and demonstrate all the good aspects and the social benefits that the motor hobby brings. Motoring interest is a community shared by old people as well as young people and men as well as women with different backgrounds. Few businesses can showcase such diversity and community as we motor enthusiasts. It is an arena where people from different generations can meet and where many young people have a clear connection to the adult world. Mr President, I would like to Motorsport and motor Hobby give a large replacement to the active. It is for many a lifestyle that takes up most of the free time and is part of its own identity. In order to have the opportunity to invest wholeheartedly in motor sports, it is also necessary in the rest of your life, such as taking care of both yourself and your situation in, for example, working life. Sport in general and motor sports in particular help the young people of society to care and meaningful leisure time. As the exercise of 2060 is wide in its mind, we will cave down more so that we can come up with good proposals for the best interests of motoring together. Mr President, I would like to I see that I have exceeded the time I signed up for. I'm sorry about that. Finally, I would like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 on the right of young people to choose partners. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal for a decision in the report.
i-278af95acb98fc01-984	Mr President, I would like to When you read b ethinkt and come to p. 6 you undeniably put a little in your throat. The committee's proposal in brief: Parliament rejects the motion for a resolution on children's right to know about their rights and to strengthen the right of all children to know about the Convention on the Rights of the Child. ..................................................... In the party movement that we Liberals have launched, we write that children should have access to targeted and accessible information about their rights. The report refers to the children's rights inquiry which is about to come and believes that we should wait for what it has to say. I wonder, why? In order to influence your situation and be involved, it is important to have access to information, not least regarding your rights. Children rarely know what their rights are, what their rights mean or how to get information. It is we adults who are responsible for ensuring that there is target group-adapted – i.e. child-friendly – and accessible information, both about the rights of the child and about the situation the child is in and about how the child should use the information. The rights enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child mean that the signatory states must also ensure that children actually have an opportunity to exercise their rights. It is stated in the Convention on the Rights of the Child that all children have the right to know their rights, and that it is the State that is responsible for it. But – and here comes a big but – it seems to be believed that all children's rights are found in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and as long as you inform about it you are at home. It is indeed done in school. When talking about children's rights, it is easy to use only the Convention on the Rights of the Child, but the rights of the child are also protected in Swedish legislation, for example in the Parental Code and the Social Services Act. Where do children learn about this? And where do children learn where to turn? Where do they get the practical application of the rights? Ask the children you have in your vicinity if they know how to do when you need help, we find the telephone number for the social services and when and why you might need to call there! Mrs. Old President! We are proud that children are doing so well in Sweden. Of course we should be. Much is good, but many children are discriminated against in Sweden. Often these are children who are in particularly vulnerable situations: children with disabilities, children in economically vulnerable families, asylum seekers' children and children placed in society's care. We Liberals want information adapted to children and young people about where they can turn if they need help and support to be available where children and young people are, for example in schools, sports fields and youth centres – not to mention online. It is therefore not just a question of knowing that the Convention on the Rights of the Child exists and what it contains, but of what it means in practice and how it is applied. When you ask students in grade 8 if they know their rights, one in five responds that they have heard about the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and only 6% know what it contains. What would have happened if there had been something other than that for children in the statement – if it had been about women, for example: The Riksdag rejects motion demands for women's right to know about their rights. Or what if it had been about Sami or Roma? I don't think we would have agreed to that. That makes no sense, whatever investigation is in the pipeline. Why would it be more reasonable when it comes to children? I look forward to taking part in the Children's Rights investigation because I look forward to the Convention on the Rights of the Child becoming a law. We Liberals have wanted this for a long time, at least since 2009 – address the Green Party. But first we want to see how the proposal is designed. We don't sign on blanco. Ensuring that all children are provided with accessible and targeted information on all their rights and how to apply them is in no way contrary to this nor open doors. On the contrary! It is our responsibility as adults to ensure that children have tools. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-278af95acb98fc01-998	Mrs. Old President! I previously asked Bengt Eliasson if the Liberals were prepared to support a forthcoming proposal to transpose the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. I thank Mrs Christina for answering this question in a positive way. Liberals, of course, are not prepared to sign a bill in blanco, but a focus on transposing the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law seems to be something the Liberals are prepared to support. I would like to confirm that this is the intention of the Liberals. Christina Örnebjär asks why we do not proceed with the Liberals' proposal to announce information efforts. First, we need to have the structure ready. We cannot start with information activities until we know what to inform about. First, we must have an investigation and a proposal, and in it we must see it as natural that we should also strengthen the information efforts. At Christina Örnebjär, it sounds like we're living in a vacuum. But that is not the case. The Ombudsman for Children and the county ombudsmen are doing a fantastic job of bringing out information about children's rights. But it probably looks different in different municipalities, and it is certain that we need to strengthen these efforts more nationally in the future.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1003	Mrs. Old President! I do not know how I could have been clearer in the speaker's chair than I was, so I repeat what I said earlier. We have entered into our party programme since 2009 that we want the Convention on the Rights of the Child to be law. Bengt Westerberg and Maria Leissner ran it early. Even when ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the People's Party then wrote in its children's movement that it wanted to ratify it. It was extremely clear that it would be incorporated and how to change the laws. Liberals and peoples have been driving this for many years. Whether we will be prepared to support the government again depends on how the proposal is drafted. Liberals want the Convention on the Rights of the Child to be law. Then it depends entirely on how the government chooses to present the proposal.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1006	Mrs. Old President! The answer was exemplaryly clear. I look forward to working with the Liberals to achieve a parliamentary majority to transpose the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1007	Mrs. Old President! I'm looking forward to it, too, because we've been working for this for a long time. I hope, however, that the Green Party in government understands that children have rights even before we make sure that there is a law. As I said, only 6% of children in grade 8 know what the Convention on the Rights of the Child contains, so we have to work now. We can't wait till later. We should have done it a long time ago.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1009	Mrs. Old President! Today we are dealing with the Committee on Culture's report on public broadcasting. In today's turbulent and changing times, there is a need to reflect on the concept of broadcasting and on the concept of public service. Television has been in public service since 1950, and radio even longer. In 1927 a radio fee was introduced and in 1943 a car radio fee was introduced. It was often the only media channel for many of the country's households and residents and has contributed to national cohesion and community. It has provided a common frame of reference for both news and entertainment, ranging from the Hyland corner and on the trail to the national and regional news programmes. The media landscape is now changing through technology, criticism and statistics. We have a technological development in which digitalisation is making great strides and contributing to major changes. We hear a criticism where many of the country's inhabitants believe that public service companies, newspapers and other media are rigid and left-wing. We see in the statistics that the number of news avoidrs, i.e. those who are not interested in following daily news and journalism, is increasing and that alternative media is increasing. Public service obligations. We should always be careful to put the facts first. It is up to the public service companies to be careful about this. The public's disservice is worrying. Many people contact us politicians, often with massive criticism of how the media landscape works and how political events and political development are reported. The creation of different reference frameworks within our society, both between different age groups and between native and foreign-born citizens, is a problem for the future. It is important to safeguard the independence, objectivity and impartiality of public services. It is of enormous importance for us to have in future a guarantee of trust in the independent media, a concept of democracy that holds and the media that can review the decision-making and executive power. The world is concerned and has been concerned by media laws in Poland and Hungary, among others, which go too far in one direction in terms of detail management. An imbalance in the breadth of the opinion corridor may worry at home. Balance will be the only long-term, the only thing we can put our faith in in the future. The Swedish Democrats' media movement is based on reflection and popular will. Sweden wants tax funding, shows surveys by SVT, and the Swedish Democrats as well. But we are pragmatic and say 'yes' to investigation and 'yes' to transparency for as good or perhaps even better alternatives. However, it is important to have an initial value. We know from the past that there is probably a majority in favour of some form of future tax option for the financing of radio and television. Sweden wants a deep Nordic collaboration and the Swedish Democrats as well. Public service has done a lot and can do more together within the Nordic region through a mission to deepen Nordic public service collaboration where we make proposals to the relevant actors, who themselves have a mandate to design what, where and how to strengthen this at arm's length. At the same time, it can also be a method to face criticism in a well thought-out way. The Nordic countries are close to us – together we are stronger and transparent. Care for, protect and show – otherwise there is a risk of other visa, I have written. If we do not care for, protect and demonstrate the value of classical media freedom and public service, we risk losing that value when a strong opinion turns against it. It is therefore important that the companies self-critically and self-searchingly understand their value and mission. The study More and more people are outside the news world shows that non-news consumption is increasing. The risk of increased inequality is rising. For some news events, alternative media have beaten the public service media in number of divisions and reporting. Jesper Strömbäck claims that the news evasions in Sweden have increased from 8 to 17 percent between 1986 and 2013. Public service has a responsibility to find the keys to earn the trust. Then there is a need, then there is an attraction. Finally, I support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 1 and 3 regarding funding and missions.
i-79w4iAr3T4aBEMkky9kXsz	Mrs. Old President! I am in favour of reservation 2 in the report by Mr Radio and television in the public service. The Christian Democrats' reservation concerns the radio and television fee and how it should be paid. There was an opportunity to resolve this under the alliance government, but that was not the case. The Christian Democrats wanted to change an old-fashioned order, but not everyone was in on it despite the fact that the Public Service Investigation of September 2012 proposed that an individual radio and television fee could be calculated on the basis of taxable earned income and not be linked to possession of certain technical equipment. The IRS would have the task of managing the collection. The Parliament would decide on the funds for the entire permit period at one time, and the annual decisions in connection with the budget process would be removed. In April last year, the Swedish Parliament decided to announce to the government that a block-crossing and parliamentary complex investigation of the radio and television fee should be carried out in good time for the next permit period 2020. The Parliament wants a jointly funded and long-term safe model that guarantees continued independence for public broadcasting. The Government announces in the 2016 Budget Bill that it intends to return to the issue. When? Where? How? You ask yourself, where are we going? We Christian Democrats, of course, maintain our previous position of redeploying and modernising the financing model by replacing the television fee with a public service fee that is individual, technologically neutral and goes alongside the budget, via the tax bill. The importance of independent and non-advertising radio and television channels without profit interests is great. Public services shall provide independent and objective news media as well as a wide and high-quality cultural offering. An important part of the mission is also to make the supply available to people with disabilities and to meet the needs and wishes of minorities. When we visited SVT from the committee not long ago, we saw that a lot has happened in this area. Mrs. Old President! The biggest impact on the media market lies in ongoing digitalisation and globalisation. Of course, we should be careful to ensure, as a member of the European Union, that subsidiarity is respected, not least in the media field. But one area is important to harmonise, as I see it, and that is copyright. Not infrequently, the image of copyright is quite distorted. I believe that copyright makes the works free. Without copyright, ownership of protected works disappears. With copyright it follows that the works will be free to use for anyone, in principle. The point is that the author, or ‐ woman, receives compensation for her creation. For many years, consumers and authors have been presented as two groups of opposing interests. It's a long way from reality. Those who create content and those who take part in it have the same interest in well-functioning legislation and a transparent industry. Anyone who wants to make everything free to download is completely out of the way in cyberspace. We Christian Democrats welcome the European Commission's proposal for an action plan for a more modern copyright framework – a uniform, harmonised EU copyright legislation. It should be analyzed and visible, but the intention is good and correct. Copyright has served Sweden well when it comes to everything from music productions to various industrial innovations.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1034	Mrs. Old President! This is the time for the annual exercise report on public broadcasting, or public service as we most often call it. I would like to start by saying that I am both proud and happy about the rather broad consensus that prevails in this House on the importance of public service. The committee also stresses in the report the importance of strong and independent public broadcasting for the Swedish media landscape and ultimately for our democracy, as well as the importance of ensuring that public services remain independent and protected from pressure in the performance of their activities. Mrs. Old President! This is an important position. Events in our surrounding world are both frightening and dismaying, most recently due to the worrying developments in Poland. The new government has adopted, among other things, a new media law aimed at transforming state-owned media into national cultural institutes. The political approach to public service has been strengthened. Managers can be hired and dismissed by government representatives, and the Polish Minister of Culture has threatened to dismiss all journalists in the public service companies. Reactions have not been avoided. The Council of Europe has appealed to the Polish President not to approve the law, and the European Commission has launched a preliminary investigation into whether Poland is violating the fundamental values of the Union. Media policy is certainly national, but democracy and human rights are universal, and we have a responsibility there. Sweden has a responsibility to act through the EU but also in our direct contacts. The heads of the three Swedish public service companies have appealed to the government and parliament to act, and I understand that. What neighbouring countries are saying and what neighbouring countries are doing is important. Sweden also has a heavy tradition of free media and a strong freedom of expression and press, a freedom of the press which this year celebrates 250 years. Public service concerns. Public service disrupts. And so should public service. In Sweden, too, public services generate commitment and debate, but then – most of the time – more about how public services can be developed than phased out. We are now halfway through the current broadcasting permit period, and it is time to prepare for the next permit period, which is due to start in 2020. It is important that the parliamentary discussion on the forms of public service is conducted precisely in the context of broadcasting permits. It is through the permits and the reconciliation of the permits that the political test is to be carried out. Then it is up to the companies to carry out their activities within the framework of these permits, without any pressure or political pointers. The fact that a social debate is being held, however, is quite natural. Many have also engaged in this debate. For example, the public service commission set up by six large media companies and organisations. The aim is to analyse how public service functions today and present a proposal on how public service should function in the future. I welcome this as well as other initiatives. The public service debate needs a lot of votes. I am also convinced that both the status and the position of public service are strengthened by the fact that the business is being debated. Mrs. Old President! Many of the sports we are dealing with today concern the financing of public services. The radio and television fee – or the TV licence, as it is often called in public – has been discussed for a long time. At the same time, there is a great willingness to pay, and it has been a well-functioning system which has served us well and which has also served the independence of public services. Having said that, the current financing model faces major challenges. Above all, there are major problems in terms of technology neutrality. Today, the owner of a television broadcaster pays a fee, but what is devoted to being a television is becoming increasingly difficult to define, especially when broadcasting is currently made almost as much on the web or through mobile applications as through traditional broadcasting. When the discussion on public service funding is more about the definition of technologies than about the importance of free and independent radio and television, confidence in funding is also at risk of being eroded. But there is also a more fundamental objection to today's way of financing public service, and that is that the radio and television fee has increasingly come to be regarded as a pay-TV fee, which is paid to consume the programmes that Swedish Television, Education Radio and Swedish Radio produce and make available. More and more often the argument is heard: Yes, but I still do not look at SVT, so why should I pay? To a certain extent, I can understand that argument, but it must be met by the fact that we are taking the debate on what is actually public service. One of the most important tasks of the public service is to examine authorities, organisations and companies that have an influence on decisions affecting citizens, and this review should take place without pressure or control from either political or commercial forces. All of us who live in an open and democratic society are the servants of this scrutiny, regardless of whether we ourselves watch or listen to the programme itself where the review is carried out. Even those who do not feel that they consume public service are dependent on the existence and functioning of public service. Mrs. Old President! Last year, therefore, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media made a clear announcement in broad agreement that a cross-border and parliamentary joint investigation of the radio and television fee should be carried out in good time for the next permit period. The committee reiterates this announcement and clearly points out that it is now only six months left before half the time for the current permit period has passed. The committee therefore considers it very important that the government should come back to this issue and expect the government to do so as soon as possible. I mean, Madam President-in-Office, that in good time the words cannot be stressed enough. Stable and long-term funding is one of the pillars of independent public broadcasting. It is a question of both legitimacy and trust. On the moderate side, we have therefore advocated tax-based financing, but have also stressed that this funding must be designed in a way that safeguards both long-term and continued independence. Other proposals have been made by other parties. We are, of course, prepared to listen to and discuss these. However, it requires the government to act and take the committee's announcement seriously. Mrs. Old President! The debate on public services will continue, both on form and on content. It's good and of course. As I mentioned earlier, all debates cannot and should not be conducted by politicians in this House – the principle of independence from political decision-making is fundamental. But the fact that there are opinions in society about whether our public service companies are doing right or wrong is natural. It is also a responsibility of the companies to take this debate and to be able to justify their activities, in addition to the public service, on the basis of concepts such as, for example, public value and, for example, public relevance. That is what I think we are doing today in a very good way. Politically, we will return to the issue of public service before new broadcasting permits are to be produced for 2020 and also because it is now high time for a mid-term review of current broadcasting permits. We look forward to early notification from the government about the modalities of that reconciliation. With this, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1051	Mrs. Old President! As Mr Lavesson has just said, I also feel the concern that can now be followed about what is happening in the field of public service in some of our neighbouring countries in Europe. One example that Olof also drew attention to is what is happening in Poland. There, the government has just introduced a new media law that allows the government to control the appointments of public service employees. This means political governance of the media, which certainly does not belong to a democracy. It is the Government Party Law and Justice that has pushed forward the new law. It is about taking control of the content of the media as the government party believes that the public service is asking controversial questions and taking up time from their political representatives on television and radio and that the media are filled with misfulfilled content. Another country is Hungary, where the Hungarian Government Party has made similar changes in recent years, but without adopting new laws. They have removed employees in public service but also managers and employees in cultural institutions who have the wrong background or opinions. For me as a social democrat, this is a clear threat to democracy. That is precisely why it is so important to me that we, as politicians, refrain from controlling content. Today's report on public broadcasting states that the committee wishes to emphasise precisely the importance of strong and independent public broadcasting for the Swedish media landscape and ultimately for our democracy. It is good that the committee is making such a clear position together, also on the basis of the events that are taking place throughout Europe. The construction we have with a management foundation as the owner of the three public service companies Sveriges Television AB, Sveriges Radio AB and Sveriges Utbildningsradio AB aims to be a buffer – the armlong distance – between the government and radio and television in the public service. It is important to remain the independent party that can review authorities, organisations and companies that have an influence on decisions concerning citizens. In today's report, there are many motions that raise the issue of the form of public service funding. The majority of the movements are actually about that. Here, as previous speakers have also pointed out, during the last parliamentary year we had an announcement to the government to set up a parliamentary inquiry well in advance of the next permit period, starting in 2020. This position is still supported by the committee. Mrs. Old President! It is easy to believe that all members of parliament in this Parliament think it is obvious that in Sweden you should have a strong, broad and independent public service, but that is not the case. When you look at the motions in today's report, you see that there is a clear example that says otherwise. It's a motion from the Swedish Democrat Martin Kinnunen. He has written that he thinks that the funding should go into the state budget. It shall be regulated annually, as any budget line, and an assessment shall be made. Then the question arises: How independent do you feel? Does the public service authorities dare to question politicians if they know that they are also in danger of getting less money in the budget? He also points out that he wants to narrow down the public service mission. Public service should not do what commercial companies can do. In other words, public service should also be governed there by the content you should have and if there may be any commercial operator who does so instead. To me, this clearly smells like political governance of public service. Here in the Chamber is the representative of the Swedish Democrats, Aron Emilsson, who says that he is protecting public service. But among his fellow party members here in Parliament there are quite different thoughts. This is, Madam Old President, important to know about. I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1063	Mrs. Old President! Both I and Gunilla Carlsson raised the very important announcement made by the committee a year ago, which we are now repeating. I am pleased with the consensus that prevails on this announcement. At the same time, we are very careful that the government follows the decisions taken in Parliament's chambers and acts in accordance with them. I will not say that the government does not intend to do so. Nevertheless, I understand that the Government intends to do so in view of the wordings contained in the budget proposal. I would like to ask Gunilla Carlsson, on behalf of the Social Democrats and one of the government parties: when will the government act on the committee's announcement, and how do she and the Social Democrats define the words It is also high time for a mid-term review of current broadcasting permits. As we noted, we are now really approaching the time when half the time has passed. Then I would like to ask Gunilla Carlsson, on behalf of the Socialist Party: when will we see a mid-term reconciliation, and what will this mid-term reconciliation include?
i-278af95acb98fc01-1068	Mrs. Old President! I am also pleased that we share a common view on the importance of a free and independent public service. However, we also have an announcement on the issue of financing. This was done, among other things, on the basis that a few years ago there was an administrative judgment. It pointed out that the legislation we had and which we thought was technology neutral, that is to say that it would not matter if you watched television via your toad, telephone or ordinary television, did not turn out to work in the way we thought. Then I was one of those who also wanted us to look further at this issue. Olof Lavesson asked when the mid-term reconciliation will be done and what I consider to be good time. It's always hard to say exactly. We have agreed to say that it should be in good time for the next broadcasting permit by 2020. There are still quite a few years left until the new broadcasting permit. I don't know exactly how many years before that is to be done. However, we have two announcements to make to the government, and I assume that the government will address this issue relatively soon.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1070	Mrs. Old President! I thank Gunilla Carlsson for developing the reason for the announcement. I appreciate that. When we take a decision on an announcement in agreement, I expect the government to act on this as well. Then you can think about how long it will take. Nothing's happened 12 months later. That is why the report highlights this announcement again. Then I may think that a certain timeframe has already been passed. In addition, the committee points out in the report that there are only six months left before half the time has passed. If we are to find a long-term perspective where we agree on good conditions for public service funding in the future, I would like to say, if I may help Gunilla Carlsson with the definition, that what is in good time will have passed if we are to stand here many more times and ask this question. I can promise Gunilla Carlsson that we will follow up on this announcement as well as everyone else. We expect both the government to act and to do so as soon as possible and in the near future. I will also give Gunilla Carlsson the opportunity to develop the second issue, that is, the mid-term reconciliation. One might think that a mid-term reconciliation should come when half the time has passed, and it has soon passed. I therefore repeat the questions. When will we see a mid-term reconciliation? I would like to ask you something that is perhaps even more important in view of the changing media situation and the changing media climate. What will the mid-term review cover, and what do the Social Democrats think the mid-term review should cover?
i-278af95acb98fc01-1076	Mrs. Old President! In fact, the word "half-time" says that it is half-time that it should happen. It's usually like that, at least in sports contexts. But even in this case, it should happen when half the time has passed, and then it is in the rather near future. I therefore assume that it will be done quite soon. Then the question is what to look at. Right now, the media investigation is under way. It has also been tasked with reviewing the issues that need to be raised for the next broadcasting permit. What do you need to look at in the Public Service Investigation? Perhaps it is an issue there that should be included in the mid-term review. With regard to the decision taken in connection with the broadcasting licence last time, one can look at what has been achieved and what has not been achieved. This is what the reconciliation is all about. So these are the issues I see. What's in good time? When we make an announcement here in the Swedish Parliament, we always think that it should be dealt with directly. Both me and Olof Lavesson know that we sometimes have announcements that have been along for quite a long time. I assume that on this issue we will not have to make many announcements, perhaps not even one more announcement, but that this year we will be looking at this issue.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1081	Mrs. Old President! I began my introductory speech by highlighting our environment and the problems that exist with Poland's and Hungary's changed media laws and the announcement that the committee made about a new investigation into future funding and so on. It is nice somewhere that we have a consensus on these two important media issues. There is also reason to clarify what the Swedish democrats' view of funding is. We have expressed this in our reservation. But for everyone else who follows the debate, I will say the following. Like the Christian Democrats, we see a future solution in the form that everyone pays a television and radio tax that is levied separately from the direct state budget, as is the funeral fee, for example. For the sake of clarity, the views of the Swedish democrats are not to link future tax funding directly to the state budget. It may be important to clarify. What individual Members exercise about in individual motions is not something that we as a party control. However, I know that both Martin Kinnunen and other former Members, including bourgeois Members, have exercised the exercise of both narrowing the mandate and tying funding more directly to the state budget. I would like to ask Gunilla Carlsson and the Social Democrats whether they understand the problem that arises in Members wanting to use this type of tool and how we capture the storm of criticism and frustration that exists in society around it in order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of public services.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1087	Mrs. Old President! I wanted to point out clearly that, although there is a reservation from the Swedish Democrats on the issue of fees, we should be aware that there are Members representing the Swedish Democrats in this House who view public service in a different way from what we express in the report. Perhaps it would have played a role if the Member who wrote the motion had been your representative in the Committee on Culture. We don't know that, but it may have a meaning. I strongly believe that we should be aware of the problems, not least as regards the issue of funding. That is why all parties in the committee make a clear announcement. We also know that during the last parliamentary term the issue was included in the public service inquiry that was carried out for the new broadcasting licence. The previous government chose not to change the financing model. Minister for Finance Anders Borg wondered why a financing model that actually works should be changed. We need to look again at the model. For me as a social democrat, it is incredibly important to find a model that still provides a free and independent public service. If it is possible to find a model that continues to provide a free and independent public service, I am absolutely prepared to change the model. If I had already locked myself to exactly what the model should look like, I wouldn't have been prepared to say there's going to be an investigation. I'll have the investigation look into that.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1091	Mrs. Old President! I'm going to leave the hypothetical reasoning behind. It is a fact that the current financing model does not work optimally. That is why there is also an announcement by the committee to investigate the matter more extensively than before. The Swedish democrats have called for what new hold the government parties and alliance parties want to take. The previous public service inquiry addressed, among other things, the funding, as Gunilla Carlsson rightly pointed out. What do the Social Democrats put in the concept of joint and several funding for public services, which was nevertheless included in the new announcement? It breathes somewhere that a licensing system is not sustainable in the long term, but it wants to see some form of common tax solution. Public services have been strongly criticised during the autumn and the year by a number of different debaters and media profiles, not least from a number of political colours. It is rarely Swedish democrats but many times bourgeois colours and even left-wing-oriented colours. They ask themselves if it is reasonable for public service to express opinions on the news site. Is it reasonable not to look at why public service companies in neighbouring countries do not as often face the criticism that public services can face in Sweden? These are important questions. Somewhere it is our mission as politicians and elected representatives to pick up such questions, but at the same time not go into detail and direct and ask how to handle them. We must understand the phenomenon, we must understand the frustration and we must understand the storm of criticism that exists. If we do not manage it wisely, wisely and carefully with the right tools in this House, we will have a situation where there is a gap between elected representatives and public services and the rest of the country's citizens.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1096	Mrs. Old President! It is interesting that Aron Emilsson waves the question away and says that it is hypothetical. For me, it is very important to have a free and independent public service. It is clear that I am worried when I see motions being raised in the Riksdag about tightening up public service and starting to run it in a completely different way from what I stand up for and think we should do. Aron Emilsson highlights the question of public service. It's good to have the courage to question. Then it becomes even more important to have the armlong distance between us as decision-makers and the public service companies. The activities of the public service companies have a great deal of confidence among the Swedish people. Swedish Radio tops the list of trusts. We shall be proud of that, and we shall ensure that it continues to be so. Aron Emilsson then asked what I interpret into the concept of solidarity-based financing model. It is clear that it is not in solidarity if you take part in public service but are not involved in financing it. This is also why there was a change in legislation, which means that when the technology develops, you should still be involved in funding through your radio and TV fee – even if you look at your plate or phone. Now that legislation was not as strong as we thought. It is also a matter for the investigation to look at whether that legislation needs to be reviewed. I'll let the investigation take a look at that. Should it be the new model or should it be another model?
i-278af95acb98fc01-1100	Mrs. Old President! For democracy to work, free universal elections, a constitution that distinguishes between legislative power and executive power, and a rule of law where we are all equal before the law. We also need free and independent newsrooms. Otherwise, there is no chance for citizens to make informed choices, and otherwise the risk of abuse of power and corruption would increase. The free press and independent public service are the cornerstones of our democracy. A parliamentary debate on public services is therefore also very different from most other parliamentary debates. We do not discuss the content of public service. What is the main focus of the debate is how we can safeguard the independence of public services. However, like Olof Lavesson, I welcome the fact that the debate on the content of public services is taking place in many other arenas. Like Olof Lavesson and Gunilla Carlsson, I am also concerned about the situation in Poland and in some other countries. The development there terrifies. It is important for the EU to show strength against this kind of development. Otherwise, the EU risks developing into a Union that does not consist of fully democratic states, but something quite different. The basic requirements for democratic institutions imposed on a country to join the EU must also reasonably be imposed on a country if it is to remain in the EU. We must be absolutely clear in the debate that developments in Poland are not far away from Sweden. This is a development that can also happen in Sweden. We see the same tendencies here in the same kind of political currents. The immediate reaction of the Swedish democrats to the events in Poland was that they understood the actions of the Polish Government. It was thought that it would in some way be the same problem with public service in Sweden as the Polish Government thinks it has in Poland. The original reaction of the Swedish Democrats was to understand how the Polish Government acted. I had therefore hoped that Mr Emilsson would distance himself from that approach in his speech, but Mr Emilsson does not. He talks in terms of an imbalance in the opinions corridors of Swedish Television's news. What does Aron Emilsson mean by imbalance in the corridors of opinion? Aron Emilsson poses a disguised threat that we will change our minds. Otherwise they will. Aron Emilsson talks about the growing dissatisfaction with how public services act, but as Gunilla Carlsson points out, Swedish Radio and Swedish Television still have high levels of confidence. There is no tendency to decrease them. Let us move on and look at the reservation of the Swedish Democrats. They turn to the diversity ambition of Swedish Television. They talk about wanting to see an increased focus on a common social system, language and culture. It is believed that this would reduce the risk of a tight coverage. That is, of course, a logical absurdity. Like Gunilla Carlsson, I would like to point out a motion that we have dealt with in this report, in which the Swedish Democrats want to go in and direct public service. They talk in terms that public service should not engage in activities that commercial operators can do. I note that, with the logic set out in the Swedish Democrats' motion, Swedish Television could not continue with its news. Certainly the longest I think that Angelika Bengtsson goes when we in the Media Investigation reference group have discussions and Angelika Bengtsson questions that Sweden's Television recruits people who have background in, as she says, politically colored newspapers such as Upsala Nya Tidning and Aftonbladet. She believes that some sort of withdrawal period would be introduced before a journalist can be recruited from a newspaper to public service. It would totally reduce the possibility for public services to recruit experienced journalists. In fact, with this kind of political current, it is high time we started discussing how we can vaccinate public services independently for the future. It is perhaps high time to discuss constitutional protection for the independence of public services, so that there is at least a need for parliamentary elections before the kind of takeover that we have seen in Poland and that we may see in Sweden in the future. Of course, the issue of public service funding is also closely linked to independence. Financial dependence is also serious. With the motion brought about by the Swedish Democrats, we would have a situation where public services were directly dependent on the Riksdag, which would raise questions about whether the news coverage is carried out independently or whether consideration is given to the risk of possibly reducing resources. In doing so, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject all your reservations.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1113	Mrs. Old President! Niclas Malmberg from the Green Party may find it difficult to stick to the truth sometimes. To remind you, among the first things I highlighted in my speech was the concern of the outside world, including the new media laws of Poland and Hungary. I don't really know how that can be misunderstood. Among other things, I pointed out that there is a problem with an imbalance in the media sector. There are many people in our country, not only ordinary citizens and citizens with other types of occupations, but also active in the public debate and media players, who believe that the left-wing orientation of the media sector which currently prevails does not reflect the diversity of the population and the public, diversity of opinion, which is a very important task for, for example, public services, which often do it very well. But in the media landscape in general, there is a problem in this. Then I do not know how Malmberg thinks when he says that I would have expressed some kind of covert warning if public services did not tighten up. I don't know that I even expressed that. However, I repeatedly insisted that public service is an extremely important institution, actor and idea in democratic society and the conversation and that we need arm's length distance. However, we do not raise a criticism and discussion that is beyond the political walls of this House and think about how we can deal with this in collaboration, in consultation and in cooperation with the public service companies, we are doing ourselves a disservice as elected representatives.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1116	Mrs. Old President! I do not think that Mr Emilsson answered my question. The question is: in what way is there an imbalance in the corridors of opinion? In what way does Aron Emilsson think that public service does not carry out an objective activity? When we look at the reports made to the Audit Board, we see that there are of course some misappropriations, that one has gone wrong. There are examples of deviations from objectivity. But there are very few cases that come to a conviction. In the vast majority of the investigation cases, the Swedish National Audit Board notes that Swedish Television and Swedish Radio have acted objectively. How, then, can Aron Emilsson say that there is an imbalance in the corridors of opinion when there are few cases that have in any way been wrongly acted on the part of public services? Again, what is the imbalance in the corridors of opinion that Aron Emilsson sees? In the reservation you talk about your disapproval of the diversity ambition of Swedish Television. You want to see an increased focus on a common social system, a common language and a common culture. In what way would it reduce the risk of tight news coverage? It is somehow that the Swedish Democrats see a left-wing dominance in public service and then want to go in and correct it. But in what way is there a wrong focus on the objectivity of public service actions?
i-278af95acb98fc01-1120	Mrs. Old President! We can begin with the imbalance expressed by researchers like Kent Asp that a vast majority of journalists have a clear political background and a clear mark. And so it is, of course, and so should be in a free democratic society. But it is still a fact that must be understood in terms of how news is published, selected, what is followed, what is chosen. It is a fundamental principle in journalism, in the media and in a number of other areas, we who have previously studied source criticism and the like, know that you choose and opt out and that it can have an impact. Then, of course, everyone should have the right to have their political opinion, but one must understand the fact. This has been stated in scientific reports, so it is not something that the Swedish Democrats are making up. The reason why there are not many convictions in the Audit Board has a lot to do with what the public service broadcasters themselves have said, including Swedish Television, namely that one must start working on the programme ethics earlier. You have ethical advice and a program ethics work that starts long before notifications should have to come to the Audit Board. This is something that the companies themselves have to take in and work with. The discussion about how this is to happen does not mean that I, as an elected representative and politicians, who should not interfere in this, will delve into it. No, Niclas Malmberg, I do not think that ethnic quotas and diversity quotas of different kinds, whether it is about reflecting all kinds of sexual orientation or all kinds of ethnicity, is a tool for reflecting diversity of opinion in society. I do not think it is very constructive. I'm sure it can have many advantages. But I rather believe that one can take impressions through both international analysis and idea development in how we, such as programmes that have been discussed by Debate, can reflect the entire Swedish opinion corridor.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1123	Mrs. Old President! I find it amazing that Mr Emilsson, in reply to my question, refers to a study on the party membership of journalists. That question has nothing to do with it. A professional journalist does not act on the basis of his party affiliation, but tries to act as objectively as possible. I would think that it is often rather the opposite, that, based on the awareness of one's own party membership, one is careful not to give priority to the party with which one sympathises in any way, but is trying to be objective. What journalists belong to has nothing to do with how objectively a news desk acts. And we certainly cannot push for the registration of journalists' party membership in the employment of journalists in newsrooms in the public service. Yet that is where the Swedish Democrats point when they say that a person who has a background in a politically coloured newspaper should not be employed in public service. I think it's a terrible interference in the independence of public services. Of course, public service must be able to employ those journalists whom you think is best and who can do a good job. I would also like to remind the Swedish Democrats that politically coloured newspapers are not tantamount to politically coloured editorial offices. A news desk always tries to act professionally without taking political consideration. The fact that the paper then has a political colour is quite another matter.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1126	Mrs. Old President! A significant change in recent years is that the share of news avoidance has increased from 8 percent to 17 percent between 1986 and 2013. It is very likely that the figure is even higher today. It's about people who avoid traditional news media. This risks creating a major knowledge gap. Moreover, there is a tendency to narrow the media and to turn as a news consumer to media that only confirms their own world picture. Both of these tendencies make the democratic dialogue more difficult to conduct. As in the past, it cannot be assumed that there is a broad basic knowledge of society as a basis for democratic dialogue. With this comes an increasing need for understanding of source criticism. Public service plays a major role in the reflection of the whole country. It is needed side by side with the private actors to have a variety of perspectives. The Center Party defends a strong public service with a variety of programme types. If the public service mission were to be restricted and the public service broadcasters would only be allowed to broadcast narrow programmes that other media market players did not broadcast, then popularity would fall away. Fewer would be likely to take advantage of the supply, and this would also reduce the public education function. Many commercial media take a great responsibility for the scrutiny of power and the democratic dialogue as a whole. The new world of digital media also makes the availability of information and journalism from different sources huge. This is extremely enriching. At the same time, unfortunately, it is difficult in large parts of the media market to gain profitability in deepening journalism. It is a problem, and the conditions for the media as a whole need to be followed closely. Diversity must be protected. In this context, it is important to also safeguard the public service activities that exist with their broad remit. It provides a basis for the investigative journalism that is of the utmost importance in our society. There is also broad support in society for the idea of the need for radio and television in the service of society, independent of politics and the market. Mrs. Old President! Funding that is stable and predictable over time is the basis for independent radio and television. There is a high level of willingness to pay for the TV fee as it stands today, but also criticism of the current model. In their speeches, Olof Lavesson and Roland Utbolt addressed the financing of public services. I would just like to agree that the important thing now is for the government to set up the investigation of the radio and television fee that has been decided upon by the Parliament by means of an announcement. The investigation needs to be set up quickly. Even now it is really too late, if you are to be able to do the investigation in a good way for the next permit period. A change in the TV fee is something I and the Center Party have long been propagated for. In a longer perspective, it is not sustainable to link the TV fee to the household and possibly the possession of a television when the reception apparatus can be the TV in the living room but just as well the computer at work or why not the mobile phone. Instead, funding public services through taxation, which is sometimes raised in the debate, also has its complications. There is a clear risk that the independence of public service will be undermined if the allocation is determined politically in the ordinary state budget. An alternative might instead be to charge a public service fee – we can also call it a media fee – of all taxpayers, as you do with, for example, the funeral fee, regardless of people's membership of the Church of Sweden, without any other illustrations. With this proposal, we would therefore pay for our common public service through a public service fee, equal for everyone regardless of income. Mrs. Old President! We also have to discuss a motion about the possibility for the inhabitants of Åland to take part of the entire offer on SVT Play. One might ask why it is so important that the Ålanders should be able to take part in the entire SVT range and not just the regular TV broadcasts. I would like to give a brief historical look back. Åland is a self-governed monolingual Swedish region in Finland, in fact the only monolingual region in the whole of Finland. As long as you know, the Ålanders have spoken Swedish and had a culture similar to Swedish culture. In 1917 Finland declared itself an independent republic. Åland's membership then created a debate that ended with the League of Nations in 1921 deciding on a compromise, in which Finland gained sovereignty over the population of the Åland Islands but had to undertake to guarantee the population of Åland its Swedish language, culture and local customs and a system of self-government that Finland had offered to Åland already 1920. The decision was then supplemented by an agreement between Finland and Sweden on the implementation of the guarantees. Over the years, Sweden has fulfilled its part of the agreement by ensuring, among other things, that the Ålanders have had access to Swedish Television and Swedish Radio's offering. They even built special TV masts during the 50s and 60s to be able to broadcast Swedish television and radio over to Åland. In recent years, however, the offer from our public service companies has been complemented by broadcasts of extra material and other material via the internet. The problem then is that much of the material that is transmitted via the internet for copyright reasons cannot be seen outside Sweden's borders, which means that the Ålanders cannot access this material. A further complication for the population of Åland is that the possibility to participate in sports broadcasts from major sporting events in Swedish, such as the Olympics and the World Cup, is limited by the fact that commercial channels have taken over the broadcasting rights for several of these events and that they are only allowed to broadcast them to viewers in Sweden. It is thus copyrighted knots that prevent those who are in Åland from receiving broadcasts and material from Swedish Television and Swedish Radio via the Internet as well as sports broadcasts from other media actors. I assume that the government is aware of this and is pushing the issue, not least at European level. I myself have raised this issue on several occasions. Mrs. Old President! Special solutions for Åland should be available, not least when it comes to access to material online, including when Åland has its own ip numbers and its own domain: ax. But in the long run, this issue is not just about Åland, but about border regions where linguistic and cultural areas cross the borders of countries – all over Europe.
i-278af95acb98fc01-1142	Mrs. Old President! You want a snail on your eye? Don't take it personally! Some of us in here remember the old slogan from Radiotjänst's dish so attentive campaign from 1994. The aim was to increase the then very low and shaky rate of payment for the radio and TV license. Although the campaign itself is memorable, the basic problem remains. The willingness to pay varies over time and depending on who you are. Finding a sustainable financing model that guarantees both independence and impartiality for public services and stable funding is essential and important. We Liberals, we in the Alliance and we in Parliament are united when we think it is time to abolish the current system and replace it with something new. Of course, we can have different nuances in what we mean by a little, but we agree that we need a new system with the announcement that came last year. Mrs. Old President! Progress has been rapid. Today, as the previous speaker has pointed out, television can be viewed, among other things, through smartphones, tablets and computers. Not very long ago, we were in an unclear legal position as to which recipients were actually licensed. The waves of debate on this were high. In the light of the rapid technological development that we see, it is not unreasonable to think that we will soon end up there again if we do nothing. At the same time, the public service media are becoming increasingly important day by day for the joint discussion on socially important democratic issues. In an ever-faster world, we also need a slow public service that looks at reality with thought. There is also a not entirely unjustified concern that a system in which the levy is levied through the tax bill could in the long term threaten the independence of the public service. So, as Per Lodenius pointed out, it is a question of balancing the edge in order to find a system in which independence is guaranteed, and in which poor finance ministers – regardless of colour – cannot make changes every year. That would be devastating. For us in the Liberals, independence is central. It is of the utmost importance that this is indeed a charge and not a tax. The level of the levy shall apply for a long period and shall not be affected by decisions in this House. Public service should continue to have a broad mission and strive for quality and relevance. All of this is given. Mrs. Old President! For us in the Liberals and for us in here together, it is important that public service funding should be technologically independent and provide public service media with protection from short-term political decisions. This is Parliament's opinion and decision summarised in the announcement to the government made barely a year ago. An investigation will be carried out well in advance of the next authorisation period – i.e. now – to test, analyse and produce a new proposal for funding public service broadcasting. It is time we introduced a more modern, more effective and politically independent solution. The Liberals and the Alliance believe that the investigation should be set up as a matter of urgency. In this case, it soon feels as if yesterday. If the government is to follow the announcement, it is important that such a large investigation is given time. There are only two and a half years left until it has to go for a consultation round. With respect for Parliament's decisions and for the instruments of the highest decision-making body in the country, we believe, Madam President, that we are waiting for the government to act. Finally, one might wonder: Does the government want a snail on its eye? I support the committee's proposal in report K r U5.
