i-0a51f7854c9991cb-6	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Christensson has asked me when I and the government will present a Swedish space strategy and what my view and the government's view is on the European space strategy. Mathias Sundin has asked me if I will work for the government to develop a new space strategy. Mathias Sundin has also asked me whether I intend to explain what the government is pushing for issues within the European Space Agency (Esa). Since there are clear points of contact between the questions, I am answering them here in a context. When it comes to a Swedish space strategy, we have, as Fredrik Christensson and Mathias Sundin quite rightly write, an investigation proposal since last year and also the referral to it. The investigation's proposals are now being prepared within the Government Office. The Ministry of Education has subsequently carried out a knowledge acquisition on the market need to be able to send small satellites from Esrange. With regard to the European Space Strategy presented by the Commission, my view and that of the government is that it is a good and balanced strategic document that sets out and prioritises strategic objectives for the EU's space policy. At the same time, we regret that it does not correspond to the need for an EU-Esa common space strategy for Europe, as requested by the Member States of both the EU and Esa. The government also notes that the communication sets out broad ambitions. The overall objective of the government is therefore to aim for budgetary restraint and to ensure budgetary control and that priorities should be made progressively in synergy between the Member States and the Commission when implementing the programmes and packages of measures referred to in the strategy. When it comes to what issues the government is pursuing within Esa, it is the government's authority, the Swedish National Space Board, that has the task of representing Sweden in Esa. Space activities carried out under the Esa are long-term, and Ministerial Councils are therefore conducted at intervals of three to four years to determine the long-term orientation of the EASA space programme. In between, decisions are made, often in technical and administrative programme-related matters, within the Esa for the Swedish part of the Swedish Space Board. On 15 November, my Under-Secretary of State informed the Education Committee of the content of the Esa Council of Ministers in December, based on the strategic decision-making basis developed by the Swedish National Board of Space. In short, it is about setting out to Esa what priorities Sweden makes between the various voluntary programmes of Esa and how much the Swedish contribution will be to the respective programmes. Proposals for the priorities have been developed by the Swedish Space Agency after consultation with the Swedish space sector and comments from industry, researchers and users.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-12	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for his reply. Space issues have become increasingly important in our lives with the technological development that is taking place and the functions that we can use thanks to space activities. Sweden has worked with space issues for many decades. The need for a national approach to space issues has increased with technological developments. It has become more important for international politics, but also for individuals, social functions, the open market and new functions associated with the development of the space sector. Today, it is not only state and politicians who set the agenda for space issues. If you look at the USA and the work that is taking place there, in particular what you call New Space, it is new players who are developing new technologies and making new breakthroughs. It's happening faster and faster. It places higher demands on us as decision-makers to keep up with these issues. The technologies and developments emerging in the space sector are often useful in other areas – the environment, climate, weather forecasting, infrastructure and security. Today there are about 12 000 people working in the space sector in Sweden, of whom 4 000 are employed in Västra Götaland. Space is not only important for environmental work, technology development and exciting discoveries. It is about jobs in Sweden and in Swedish industry. Sweden has been engaged in space activities for more than 50 years. The reason why the Alliance set up an investigation into developing a space strategy was a national audit report that came in 2013 indicating that there would be a need for clearer political governance in space activities. It is therefore a little remarkable that the government does not give any information when a whole industry is asking for a national space strategy. The industry also employs many people. There are also many people who are affected by the government's ability to come up with a space strategy. My first supplementary question to the Minister is: when can we expect us to have a national space strategy in Sweden? If so, what will such a space strategy contain? Will it follow what is set up from outside the EU, which the Minister is today to discuss with the EU Board? The EU identifies four areas. It is about optimising the social benefits of space activities, strengthening the European space industry, strengthening Europe's autonomy in space activities and also strengthening Europe's role as a global player. It is an issue that the committee has discussed with the Minister for the meeting of the EU Board. In his response to the interpellation, the Minister points out that it is unfortunate that the EU and Esa cannot agree on a common strategy. I would like to know, on the basis of the discussions we had with the Secretary of State in committee: how is the government working to ensure that the strategy to be laid down in Esa is in line with the forthcoming established EU strategy on space? It is important that they are linked and follow the same concept so that we get a whole at European level. It is important that the EU and Esa work together.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-21	Mr President, I would like to Space is very important to us here on Earth. There are probably many of us who would have lost us a number of times if we hadn't had GPS navigation in our cars or mobile phones. In the fight against the fires that are now raging in Israel, satellites are used to see how the fire spreads. Earthquakes in Italy and elsewhere use satellites. There you can see down at centimetre level how the ground is moved. The damage can therefore be assessed very quickly. You can usually find out in a few minutes. We also use satellites for climate monitoring to see climate emissions. There are thousands of other uses just for satellites. At the same time, we see that satellites are becoming smaller and cheaper, just as in many other areas of technology. That is why we believe from the Liberals that the thoughts that exist on the extension of Esrange in order to be able to launch smaller satellites from there look very interesting. Unfortunately, the investigation itself is so far secret, so we cannot take a position on this in detail. The Minister now has the chance to tell us a little more about how the thoughts go, but it looks interesting. It is also a question of a space strategy. Simply: What does the Swedish government want with the money we spend on space policy? Most of it goes to the European Space Agency (Esa), but we also spend some of it at home and via the EU. The companies here in Sweden are screaming for a space strategy. Firstly, they want to know whether there will be a space strategy and, secondly, of course, what it will contain. The Alliance set up an investigation that produced a basis for the space strategy. The investigation came over a year ago, and it has since been cold in some office drawer in the department. It is said all the time that the matter is being prepared. We understand that it is being prepared, but a statement as to whether there is a space strategy must be able to deliver now. It has been a year since the investigation came, and we must be able to know whether there is a strategy. We also want to know what the government is thinking, but if anything comes, it is the least you can ask to know. Entrepreneurs working in this area depend on a strategy and on knowing the direction to be followed to enable them to develop their businesses. One area, apart from the one where different parts are built for satellites and other things, is space tourism. Those who operate there are also very interested in knowing whether this will be part of a future strategy. Will Sweden work actively in this area? One might think: The space strategy becomes just another one of those fine-worded political documents. It could be. But if you deliver action to it, it can also be very good. The British space strategy, the National Space Policy, has become just that. It is interesting in its content, but it has also delivered action. We are seeing strong growth in the space sector in Britain. They are very offensive in space tourism, among others, but also in many other areas. There is a strong link to research but also to jobs and growth. If we are not to be overtaken by Britain and many others, we need a space strategy – soon.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-29	Mr President, I would like to Thanks to both Fredrik Christensson and Mathias Sundin for initiated and knowledgeable contributions and – I would say – legitimate questions about just how Sweden will make its choices about space initiatives! You have both pointed out that there is now a major change in space. It has gone from that in the 1960s it was about launching rockets and manned spacecraft to the moon to working primarily with cooperation on the international space station, where we ourselves have had an astronaut, Christer Fuglesang, up. And now it's about what they call New Space where several, also smaller, actors come in and want to conduct both commercial activities and other things. We also see from society that we can use space for important societal challenges. It is precisely the development of technology and the fact that building small satellites, for example, is becoming cheaper. It may not be as cheap to then launch the satellites, but it still makes it possible for more actors to enter space. Nevertheless, with the knowledge base that Jan Nygren has developed and presented to me and to the National Innovation Council, it should be said that many of the new players are still not fully commercially viable. But we can see the embryo into a market that is emerging. It will contribute to service development, not least in the wake of digitalisation. But as both of you have pointed out, there will also be many social functions that can use the information that we can take down from space. This is also the big shift. From the fact that it has primarily been about exploring and understanding space and its prerequisites, it has gone to now being about understanding our own planet, Earth. It is both about being able to see what happens in changes and about being able to use this knowledge to make the right choices. I know there's a lot of people waiting for the space strategy. I have been clear, not least this summer in connection with a debate in Almedalen, that we need a few more pieces of the puzzle in place before we can adopt a space strategy in order for it to be fully relevant. One of these puzzle pieces I present on Monday: the research bill. It is important that we have a basis for what we want to put forward with research, education and innovation. As you say, this is something that stimulates all these three parts. Another piece to wait for was Jan Nygren's knowledge base, which he has now presented and which is being prepared within the Government Office. It is clear that Jan Nygren thinks it is an interesting development for Sweden to make it possible for Esrange to also be able to launch smaller satellites. Sweden has a good location not only geographically but also because of the fact that Esrange already exists. This means that it is a smaller step for us than for other European countries that want to be part of this. Now this needs to be further developed, because it is also an important piece of the puzzle for a future possible space strategy. As I said, there are more things to comment on, but I would like to emphasise that it goes without saying that we think that the EU strategy should be linked to EASA's strategy.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-36	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, although it does not make me wiser and does not give me any clearer answer. The question that both Mathias Sundin and I asked ourselves was whether we can expect a space strategy. As I see it, if I read the positive, we can do it. But the question remains: If so, when does one come? As I pointed out earlier, many people are already affected by this in the Swedish aerospace industry today. There are 12 000 employees, and many people in the industry in Västra Götaland are also affected by this. In a strategy, it is important to point out the direction. I'm a little perplexed when the argument is that we have to wait for the research bill before we can develop a national space strategy. I would like the Minister to develop the reason why it is not better to first set out a strategy for what we want and where we want to go with space, which has such a great impact on both companies and people. Then, based on a strategy, you can present how to prioritise in a research proposal. For me and in my way of thinking, it is the obvious and natural passage. The Minister will be happy to develop his thinking. Above all, she will be happy to come back to the question of when we can expect a space strategy. There is another issue that I have met when I have spoken to various people in the space sphere when it comes to the appropriations. A large part of space policy is influenced by the EU and by the EASA space policy. Then we are bound up with currencies, and we are talking about the euro. I have been led to believe that changes in exchange rates have led to higher costs in Sweden. How does the Minister view it, and how do you intend to work to face it? This mainly affects Swedish authorities and the Swedish money we invest in space. There is an issue that is becoming increasingly important in view of the current state of security policy and in view of what is happening in the United States and Russia. This concerns the question of independence and the autonomy of Europe – self-access to space. I would like to hear the Minister develop the reasoning on this. How does the Minister view this from a Swedish but also from a European perspective for the forthcoming meetings with both the EU and Esa? How can we gain more independent access to space based on the security policy situation and the situation we are seeing in the outside world right now?
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-41	Mr President, I would like to I choose to interpret the Minister's answer positively. A space strategy is approaching, but not at rocket speed. Let us then switch to other rockets – within Esa, the European Space Agency. Most of Sweden's space budget goes to Esa. The largest single venture within Esa is a launcher program called Ariane. This has been struggling with deficits for a long time. Ariane 6 is now underway and has begun to develop. The development takes place through State resources. The problem with this is that Ariane 6 does not develop with landing capacity and therefore cannot be reused. That's the big shift that we're seeing happening now. There are two American companies that have both managed to land and launch rockets again. Of course, it will take time to make this work fully, but Blue Origin has done so five times now, so landed and postponed the same rocket. This means, of course, that, in the long term, the costs of launching satellites, for example, will be able to fall dramatically. It would be very expensive to fly if we needed to build a new aircraft for each flight, for then a ticket to London would cost 3 – 4 million crowns while you can now go for a few hundred cents. The rocket fuel is expensive but represents only some percent of the cost of a postponement. This is therefore an important development to which we from the Liberals think Europe should contribute, and we think that the Swedish Government at the forthcoming Council of Ministers should demand from Esa that Ariane 6 be developed with landing capacity so that the rocket can start to be reused. Then we contribute to this development in space that we now see. It is important in itself, as we have all talked about here in the debate, because it is important functions via satellites and other things, but there is also a great risk that Ariane 6 will be very expensive. It must be fully operational in 2023 and fly for at least 10 years. If we are now pulling out the development 14– 15 years ahead and looking at these American companies and others that are in progress and have already succeeded in this, we can ask ourselves: Where will they not be in 15 years' time? It could be a very tough competition for the Arianeraket. We also see a shift, as I said, where private companies are now doing some things that previously only countries or maybe only superpowers managed. Then one must also rethink the role of the state in these contexts, I think. The state will play an important role for a long time, but perhaps not always in the same way. NASA has done something good when they have started to procure certain services from private companies. They not only procure that the company will build part of a rocket, but they procure the entire service of delivering goods and people to the international space station, and so the company will manage everything there, just as in any procurement that state or municipality makes with a little more advanced gadgets. I think this is an important shift. We may not be able to do so precisely with the Ariane project, but within Esa we can start working in this way on other satellites and other things, and we can begin to think that they procure in this way in order to increase the growth of private companies that are not dependent on government development but on government funding.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-48	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we will reconnect with the Riksdag in one way or another is given. But it is quite crucial with the research bill and also the budget bill, because, as you said yourself, we do not want this strategy to be just a political paper, but that it should also be the opportunity and the basis for action. In fact, funding is an important part of this. That is why it needs to be prepared. It should be set against many other ambitions that this government has. For me, it is important that Sweden makes a knowledge-based choice. Should we be part of the change that is now taking place and thus continue to be an active space nation, or should we continue to be at the level that we are at today? It is not in any way bad, but it does not mean that we become as active a part of this change as we have discussed. I would like to say that as space becomes more accessible, a market will develop in this area, and it will both grow and mature. It is an exciting and interesting development that I like to see that Sweden is a part of, but so far it is not quite there, even if we see an embryo for it. With regard to the cooperation we have on the production and financing of launchers under this great ESA programme, it should be remembered that although it is a lot of money for us, because it is, it represents 1.86 % of the project. France finances 50% of the project itself, and Italy, Germany and France together account for as much as 90% of the project. This means that it is largely their technological development that determines how to build these rockets. This is an important collaboration for Sweden to be involved in, not least for the Swedish space industry or industry that is linked to this technology development. Of course, all countries want to move towards better reusability and the development of reusable rockets. I will continue to argue that. But we will probably not have real influence on this issue until we can bring it forward at the next Esa Ministerial meeting to be held in 2019. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that this is what everyone wants, and I also think it is based on the EU's space strategy that we should be restrictive with the economy and ensure that there is economic efficiency in what we do. That is why it is also so important that EASA's strategy is linked to the EU's strategy for this. That is also the position that we will be asserting in the future. However, I do not want us to make Sweden's participation in these programmes conditional on such a requirement now, because then it would have very large implications for our companies that are now part of this work. But to demand this in the long term is an opinion that we share with many Member States today.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-57	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that I share the government's view that it is important for Sweden to be in Esa and that launchers are important for Swedish industry. It is above all important for many jobs in West Sweden that are close to me. The basis of the question in the interpellation, to which I have still not been given an answer, is when a space strategy comes. Nevertheless, I would like to interpret it positively and believe that the government will present a space strategy, but the question is, as I said, when. As the Minister points out in his reply here, it is when Jan Nygren's investigation has arrived, and it has. It is also when the 2017 budget has arrived, and it has. The research bill will be presented on Monday. Then we should also be able to know when we can expect a strategy. I was a little worried when I read a press release from the Government Office last Wednesday about the Innovation Council meeting. It said that there are several exciting and important things going on in the space field both in Sweden and Europe, but a national space strategy is not mentioned anywhere. Is it an issue that the government is prepared to prioritise in order to achieve a space strategy? It would be extremely important for the space companies, for the people who work in the industry and to meet the great and new demands placed on Swedish space activities that such a thing should come. It is also important from the perspective from which the Alliance actually set up the investigation from the beginning, i.e. that we need increased political governance of space activities in order for it to be more satisfactory. I hope that the Minister can give a slightly clearer perspective on when we can expect the space strategy to be presented.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-62	Mr President, I would like to The main reason for developing landing capacity, so that the Ariane rockets can be reused, is precisely the availability of space. Bringing down costs can increase access to space. There are a number of projects around the world – there will certainly be more – with a large number of satellites, thousands of satellites, going up to cover the whole world with the internet – it would be nice, not least for those of us who live in the know-how, to be able to connect. Access to space is therefore important. And that is why we should reduce the costs. The cost element is also an important factor in the case of Arian e. Of course, we are a small part of the entire Ariane project, but it is still about 150 million a year of tax money going there. You're struggling with a deficit. We had to make extra money a few years ago. If the trend of falling prices on other rockets continues, it may be difficult to get customers to Ariane in a few years' time. The deficits can then be much greater than they are today. So there's a concern that it's not just about this money. And money will then unfortunately be taken from other space activities, within Esa, Sweden or the EU. So it is important to keep an eye on it. I'm sure there's a lot of people who want that. But it won't happen unless it's done now. If we let this development go too far, we will say in 2019 that it has gone too far. Now we can't change our minds. Now we have to finish this. Then we sit with the rocket for 12 – 13 more years anyway. The whole area is a great opportunity for Sweden. We have enormous experience. As the Minister pointed out, we have great assets, not least in Esrange but also in other areas. I believe that we need a clear political strategy forward, in order to really take part in that growth.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-66	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Fredrik Christensson and Mathias Sundin for an important and inspiring debate. I'm always as excited when I'm allowed to act in my role as Secretary of State for Space. We are preparing these questions. Although we have received the knowledge base from Jan Nygren, any funding and choices for Esrange's possible development are not yet clear. That work is now under way. For me, it is an important component of a possible future space strategy. If Sweden actively chooses to become a country where smaller satellites can be launched, if we thus take up space and become a space nation, it could mean that we are not just a country with a proud history. We will also become an active space nation in the future. An important element is also the security policy situation, which has been mentioned. Supporting European independent access to space is extremely important at the moment, not least in the light of what is happening. Sweden as a neutral and peaceful country, which puts the climate challenge high on the agenda, can then be involved in discussing how information from and access to space should be used. As I said, I look forward to continuing to discuss this in Parliament. I really hope to be able to return with clear feedback to the Riksdag about the choices that the government chooses to make. My hope is that Sweden will be a leading space nation in the future.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-71	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Christensson has asked Minister Hellmark Knutsson what measures the government intends to take to address the major problems affecting many non-European students and experts. The question has been submitted to me for an answer. For third-country nationals who are to start higher education in Sweden, it is of course crucial to have a decision on a residence permit in sufficient time before the start of the semester. In order for an applicant to be granted a residence permit, it is required, among other things, that the person is admitted to an education, has a health insurance and secure livelihood. It is the task of the Finnish Immigration Service to verify that these conditions are fulfilled before a permit can be granted. The Finnish Immigration Service has so far received more applications for residence permits for studies this year than during the corresponding period last year. Looking at the Government's ambition to increase the internationalisation of universities and colleges, this is gratifying. The pressure on the Finnish Immigration Service is still high due to the very large number of asylum seekers who arrived in autumn 2015 and the applications for residence permits on the basis of affiliations that followed. This may explain why, in some cases, waiting periods for residence permits for studies are longer than in previous years. In order for the Migration Agency to be able to cope with the increased workload, the Government has provided significant resources in recent years. The Swedish Migration Agency's management plan has increased from just over SEK 3 billion in 2014 to nearly SEK 6 billion in 2017. The Government wants unnecessary obstacles to the internationalisation of universities and colleges to be removed. During the late summer, the Migration Agency redistributed resources to ensure that decisions were made in cases where the people depended on a quick decision. The Finnish Immigration Service's activities are important for the internationalisation of universities and colleges. Therefore, the Government continuously follows the Authority's work on residence permits for studies. In addition to the measures mentioned above, the Government also requires the Finnish Immigration Service to achieve significant productivity gains and shorter processing times for the processing of residence permits for studies already in 2017.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-77	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The internationalisation of higher education and the free movement of students, so that they can study and work, are extremely important in today's society. Without exchanges with international students, we risk losing both quality and diversity. I have since asked the interpellation, and even before that, got a clear picture of the problems experienced by the higher education institutions that have affected individuals. What makes me most frustrated is that it affects individuals who spend time and effort on applying to study in Sweden. However, because of bureaucracy and administration, they do not have the opportunity to complete or start their studies in Sweden. It also affects universities that have adopted students when due to processing times at other authorities they do not have the opportunity to receive the students. I am grateful that the Government's response opens up to be prepared to review all unnecessary obstacles to the internationalisation of universities, so that these obstacles can be removed. That's good. There's a deal. There are several parts to this. There are a number of regulations that really need to be reviewed. The problems concern students and people who are in Sweden today but also those who apply to come here and study. If we start with those who are already in Sweden, there are people who have been admitted to a master's degree and who have studied a year, but they may not extend their residence permit after that. The same applies to doctoral students who have come to Sweden and who are only granted a residence permit for one year at a time. When they then need to extend, they do not get that opportunity. Sometimes it's about people not getting a residence permit. Sometimes it's just an extension of processing times. It affects their work. For example, it will not be possible for researchers to participate in international conferences, which are an important part of their work, because they cannot leave the country while waiting for information on whether or not they should be granted an extension. It affects their opportunities, their work and their research. When it comes to students who apply here, it risks affecting Swedish reputation if the long processing times and administration lead to them not being accepted. From and to there will also be an element 22. When the students have been admitted to the programme and paid their tuition fee, it is up to the Finnish Immigration Service to assess whether they should be granted a residence permit or not. This process can be delayed, which may lead to students having to leave their study places. If you have left your place of study, you no longer have reason to get a residence permit because you have lost your place. It's unfortunate. And it affects individuals in a tough way. There are several things to do when it comes to taking. I also understand from the universities that they are currently affected by the reimbursement of tuition fees to students due to parts of the laws and regulations that have been introduced for tuition fees and registration fees. However, it is stated in today's regulations that higher education institutions may refund the tuition fee and tuition fee. It should of course be clear in the regulations that students should not be financially affected by the Swedish bureaucracy and administration.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-86	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying that it is not bureaucracy and administration that has been the fundamental concern of this year, but the fundamental problem has been that the Migration Agency has had a very strained situation. Last year, 163 000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden. In addition to examining these applications, the Finnish Immigration Service has, so far this year, taken a position on 114 000 applications from municipalities for compensation for the expenses they have had, which is almost five times as many as it has been in previous years. So far this year, the Finnish Immigration Service has taken over 80 000 asylum applications – all-time-high. Most decisions, 12 000, have been taken in October. At most, 140 000 people have been waiting for decisions. Now you're down to just under 100,000. The latest data was 93 000. This is the background, that is, the very difficult and strained situation that the Migration Agency has had. Then I would like to say to Fredrik Christensson that it was lucky that it was not the Center that had to decide last year. So far this year, around 25 000 asylum applications have been submitted to Sweden. If your decision had been made, it could well have been 125 000, because you were against all austerity, against ID checks, against border controls, against the new legislation. Then we would not have stood here and talked about processing times when it comes to students in the way we do today, because then we would not have had a chance to be able to pass even reasonable processing times in that area. That's it. Moreover, this activity is extremely seasonal. Admission decisions if you are going to come to Sweden and study will be sent out at the end of March. Applying for a residence permit will be submitted in April – June. The Finnish Immigration Service will then handle these applications in July and August for it to be completed before the start of the semester. This means that there will be big humps during the summer. We've added resources. As I said, we have doubled the funding for the Migration Agency for 2014, 2015 and 2016 from 3 billion to about 6 billion. The number of employees at the Finnish Immigration Service has also doubled. However, faced with the challenge that we have had, it is only to be noted that the processing times for these cases have increased. The average processing time for first-time applications for university students was 40 days this year. Although this is an increase from 28 days, in view of the major challenges the Migration Board has had, the increase is not spectacular. At the same time, more applications to study in Sweden have been received during the year, and that increase was almost 13 per cent. Overall, it has been an exceptional situation this year that we took control of with the help of the decisions we made last year. This means that we have now been able to graze the queues, and in the coming years we are redistributing the resources so that the Migration Agency can prioritise in a different way in these matters. I can say that it will not look the same next year, but it will be possible for times to be squeezed down. In addition, we will commission the Migration Agency to review its working methods in order to improve the efficiency of the processing. This includes better IT support and digitalisation, which is important in these cases. Such an assignment comes to the Migration Agency through the regulation letter that we will soon decide on.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-94	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for developing the answer. I fully understand the situation of the Migration Agency last autumn. But the government is trying to put our opinions on it. We in the Center Party are a responsible party, and we were in the migration agreement that was concluded with the government. At the same time, we have presented a wide range of proposals to simplify and improve the situation of the people who come to Sweden. This would also reduce the workload of the Finnish Immigration Service. This debate is about international applicants that universities adopt and want as students. It is people who have a driving force to go to Sweden to get education and the experiences it brings. The problem with this has been the loss of one year's study time. They have set themselves to come to Sweden and study, but because of long processing times they do not get that opportunity. I have spoken with universities and others who testify that there is a duplication of work between the Migration Agency and the HEI. The teachers are currently reviewing the students' English skills and other knowledge in order to get the right students to the courses. At the same time, the Migration Agency makes special reviews of the students, and then you check, among other things, English knowledge that the higher education institutions themselves have already checked out. The teaching institutions use internationally recognised methods, such as TOEFL or others. My opinion and that of the Center is that such things have to go away. Regulatory frameworks and duplication of work must be minimised as far as possible. There I hope that the Minister is clear in his communication with the Migration Agency, for which the Government is responsible. Priority must be given to this group and to the removal of current regulatory barriers. They affect students, but they also affect universities. Right now, the students are applying. The deadline for international students is in January. It is extremely important that you do not end up in the situation for another year where people who come to Sweden do not have the opportunity to study. Then the Swedish reputation will decrease and we risk losing even more competitiveness. More students who apply to Sweden are needed to strengthen the quality of higher education. I would like to know whether the government is prepared to review regulations to reduce regulatory burdens, bureaucracy and duplication of work. I also wonder whether the Minister is prepared to review the situation regarding the extension of residence permits. It takes time and effort at the Migration Agency with matters that could be handled differently. In the current situation, you get a residence permit for one year at a time, but for example doctoral students receive their funding through the HEI. Then one way forward should be to get a residence permit for all the time that you should be in Sweden. If you do not behave properly, the universities would be obliged to reconnect to the Migration Agency. It would affect the situation of these people and it would reduce the work of the Migration Board. Is the Minister prepared to review the regulations?
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-103	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous post; Yes, we will give the Migration Agency a mission to review their procedures and see what opportunities exist to streamline the processing. That assignment comes in the regulation letter to the Finnish Immigration Service. Of course you can get a bit on your way there. But it never gets away from the fact that the exceptional situation that we have had this year is the result of the large number of asylum seekers that we had last year, 163 000. That was my point when I said that you in the Center Party were against all the austerity measures that have had an effect. You were against the ID checks, you were against border controls and you were against the new legislation. Had you had the power to decide, we would have had a situation that we would never have been able to sort out, either the Migration Agency or other businesses in Sweden. By then we would not have had 25 000 asylum seekers, but perhaps we would have received 125 000 asylum seekers this year. You're not coming from that. That's it. Having said that, with the addition of resources that we have made and with the mission that we intend to leave, I am quite sure that we will have a much better situation in the coming years. In the case of long processing times, these are 40 days for first-time applications for applicants. This is an increase from 28 days for 2015 to 40 days for 2016. I realise that this is an increase, but we will try to push this down. However, it is understandable in the light of the strained situation that we have. However, we see no sign that this has had any effect on the interest to study in Sweden, but rather the opposite. We have an increase here too. We have more cases, and the increase, as I said, is almost 13% this year alone. This is a declaration of strength for the Swedish educational system. People want to go to Sweden to read, and both people and states are prepared to pay the fees for them to do so. This testifies to the fact that, internationally, we probably have a fairly high quality of our education. Such a task will therefore be left, and I can see that we will be able to press ahead with processing times and improve procedures in the coming years.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-110	Mr President, I would like to I share the view that it is positive that international students are more likely to go to Sweden. However, such a situation that arose during the autumn, when individual students were affected, risks impairing Sweden's reputation. It is gratifying that the Minister will be clear to the Migration Agency about reviewing the regulatory framework. I hope that the government does so urgently so that this does not affect the students who are applying next year. Otherwise, Sweden has special problems with the international students. However, I am a little perplexed that the Government did not answer the question of extensions, which I also raised. We have a situation with people who are already in Sweden, but because of the regulations for processing times and extension cases they may not stay. This also creates an increased administration for the Migration Agency, which every year has to check out students and researchers. Instead, you could turn it around and transfer the responsibility to the higher education institutions to reconnect to the Migration Agency if something is not correct. The way it works today, these people are in danger of getting caught. Researchers cannot attend international conferences, and master students who have been admitted to a two-year education are told after a year that they may not continue because of how the regulations are interpreted about, among other things, funding. Sweden is quite unique in how you view this compared to other countries. We really need to review this in order to have a competitive higher education and a system for it take so that people can come here and can expect to know whether they can study in Sweden.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-115	Mr President, I would like to Yes, people go to Sweden to study, and they come here to a greater extent. We have more cases, which shows that we have a strong attractiveness and also probably a good quality of the training that we offer. People are also prepared to pay for these training courses. I do not see any deterioration in the reputation in this regard. However, we have a problem with longer processing times. That's why I just said that we are prepared to commission the Migration Agency to review procedures and how they work with this. This does not exclude that anything further needs to be done regarding the cooperation between the higher education institutions and the Migration Agency. That may well be necessary, and then we will just have to look at it. Fredrik Christensson called for us to do this urgently, and we do. We will decide next month, and this will apply to the Migration Agency next year. We expect the Migration Agency to be able to work so that it can – as we write – achieve significant productivity increases and shorter processing times. This should be possible already in 2017. In 2016, the situation has been exceptional, but we will work on this in 2017 to ensure that the situation improves.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-119	Mr President, I would like to Maria Abrahamsson has asked me whether I am prepared to consider certain measures aimed at strengthening the position of the courts. It is a matter of reviewing the position of the Court of Justice in relation to the courts, of investigating whether the Ombudsman should take over the supervisory responsibility for the judiciary, which currently rests with the Chancellor of Justice, of reviewing the question of the influence of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court over the recruitment of the Justice Council, and of moving the parliamentary administration of the Swedish Courts and the Board of Judges' appropriations to the Constitutional Committee. The independence and independence of judges and courts are fundamental to the rule of law. The requirement for independent and impartial courts has been imposed for the protection of the individual citizen. The person having his or her case brought before a court shall be able to feel confident that the matter will be dealt with in accordance with applicable law and without prejudice to irrelevant interests. Independence is guaranteed, among other things, by stipulating in the form of a government that no authority, including the Riksdag, may decide how a court should judge in the individual case or how a court should otherwise apply a rule of law in a particular case. The task of the Court of Justice is to provide administrative support and service to the courts in order to create the conditions for a legally secure and efficient operation there. The activities of the National Courts Administration simplify and streamline the administration of the courts and enable them to focus on their legal tasks. It is clear from the instructions given by the Court of Justice that the work of the Office must respect the independence of the courts according to the form of government. I have not received any indications other than that the operation is functioning well, and I do not currently see any need to review the position of the Court of Justice in relation to the courts. Both the Chancellor of Justice and the Ombudsman for Justice have since 1809 had certain supervisory functions over the judiciary. Supervision is limited in that it must not interfere with the independence of the courts and judges in the judgment. The question of the relationship of supervision with the independence of the courts has been considered by the Basic Law investigation which concluded that there is no reason to question the current system. I share the assessment of the basic law investigation. As far as the recruitment of judges to our highest courts is concerned, it is my view that the current recruitment procedure is working well and that it ensures that the courts are given the necessary competence to fulfil their precedent-setting function. However, work on developing the recruitment process of judges must continue. The Government has therefore recently commissioned a special investigator to consider, among other things, how the roles and functions of the individual courts, the Board of Judges and the Board of Appeal in the recruitment work can be clarified and developed. Finally, Maria Abrahamsson has asked me if it might be worth moving the Riksdag's handling of the Swedish Courts and the Board of Judges' appropriations to the Constitutional Committee. In this context, I would like to point out that the courts, together with the Police Authority and the Prosecutor's Office, are part of the judicial system. When agencies' activities are linked in this way, it is important that budgetary work is conducted from a holistic perspective. I do not, therefore, intend to take any initiative to change the regime whereby the appropriations of the Swedish Courts and the Courts are included in the same expenditure area as the other judicial authorities.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-125	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the answer that was exemplaryly clear! The Minister of Justice does not believe that the position of the courts needs to be strengthened in any respect whatsoever. The Government also sees no need to further mark the independence of the courts in the light of the 2011 constitutional reform. In line with this, the Government sees no need to review the position of the Court of Justice in relation to the courts – this is because the Government has not received any indications other than that the operation is functioning well. The Government sees no problem with the supervision of the courts being exercised by JK, which is the government's extended arm and house lawyer. Nor does the Government share my view that it may be worth highlighting the constitutional speciality of the courts in the state budget too, so that the courts are not confused with, for example, the Genetics Board and other authorities that are obliged to obey the government loyally. The courts do not need any additional protection against political interference and pressure. Everything is peace and joy, and it's fine as it is. This is how you can sum up the Minister of Justice's answer. However, there is one problem, Mr President: not everyone shares the view of the Minister for Justice. For example, it is not shared by the country's main representatives of the judiciary. The chairmen of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, the President of the Svea Court of Appeal and the lawman of the Stockholm District Court have requested that the position of the National Court of Justice in relation to the courts be reviewed. And why? Because the government's authority has great power over the courts. It is a power that consists, among other things, in the Court of Justice distributing money to the courts and determining what salaries the judges in the highest positions should have. As the government's authority, the National Board of Justice can financially punish or reward courts, according to how responsive these are to the wishes of the work and the government. Therefore, in order to safeguard independence, it has been proposed from the highest legal level that the administration of the courts, including the distribution of money, should be led by a self-regulatory board or council consisting primarily of judges, i.e. not the Court of Justice, which is an administrative authority subordinate to political power. But yes, Mr President, I can understand that the Minister of Justice has not, as he says, received any indications other than that the operation is working well. Of course, the Court of Justice has no interest of its own in saying something unfavorable about its own activities. On the other hand, if the Government listened to those directly concerned by the activity who were best acquainted with it, that is, the courts themselves, he would get a different picture of reality. Against this background, I would like to ask the Government why he so categorically rejects my request for a review of the Court of Justice's position vis-à-vis the courts.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-133	Mr President, I would like to All these issues have been addressed in the Basic Law investigation. The basic law investigation concluded that the order we have today would apply. I'm not the one who made it up. There is a broad consensus. In fact, all parties that were part of the Basic Law investigation, including the Moderates, came to the same conclusion, namely that this is the order that should apply. Now I do not know if Maria Abrahamsson has any different views, but her party is behind the basic law investigation. Then Maria Abrahamsson says that there has been a request from the President of the Supreme Court, etc. I have not received such a request. If it is a debate article written three years ago to which Maria Abrahamsson refers, I would like to know. In fact, I have not received a request from those to whom she refers to for a broad review. She'll be happy to elaborate on this. There is an American expression that reads: If it ain 中 t broke, don 中 t fix it. In short – this is also the answer to the questions asked by Maria Abrahamsson – I do not currently see any need for these changes. The background is that I believe that the principle of the independence of the courts is grounded in Sweden. In my opinion, there are very few or really no ones who question it. Yes, there may be some political forces on the right that do, but no one in political mainstream, you might say. The Court of Justice provides administrative support and service to the courts. In fact, I don't understand how it would affect judgment and individual judgments. If Maria Abrahamsson can refer to cases where this has affected judgment, she is happy to give such examples. The Ombudsman and the Chancellor of Justice have been in charge since 1809. It is also an issue that was dealt with by the Fundamental Law investigation. As I said, I have not received any indication that it would restrict the judicial activity. As far as the appointment of judges is concerned, we are doing a review, but we do not intend to change the order that we have in essence, in which the Judiciary has an important function. It is also a system created by the Fundamental Law investigation in broad political agreement. I don't see any reason to change it. I see the budgetary issue more as a symbolic issue. The courts are part of the judicial system, which is why I see a very clear logic in the fact that it is the Justice Committee that is also dealing with this. If Maria Abrahamsson wants to change anything, she has two questions to answer. The first is: Is it that she has her own line and is no longer behind the Moderate assessments, or is it that the Moderates are changing? The second is: would she please tell us more specifically with examples of how the order we have today would restrict the independence of the courts?
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-141	Mr President, I would like to I can reassure the Minister of Justice that I am behind the Basic Law investigation and that my party is doing the same. What is at issue here is that I and my colleagues in the Constitutional Committee have been able to identify a space that is not touched by the Fundamental Law investigation. We are moving forward there because we see further opportunities to strengthen the position of the courts. That's what I and my party stand for. You don't have to overdramatize this. The Minister of Justice will be a little over it if it may be that this request has been made in a three-year-old article. Yes, the media in Sweden is considered to be the third state power, the courts the fourth. I think the Minister of Justice is very well aware of that. What is written on our biggest newspaper's debate page by Sweden's highest lawyers means something. That's how it is, and I'm sure the Attorney General knows that too. I note that the Minister of Justice rejects my proposals to review the Court of Justice's relationship with the courts. I also understand that he is equally opposed to my other proposals with a view to strengthening the position of the courts. I find this a little strange, because my proposals are by no means revolutionary, but are considered comme il faut in most other constitutional states. They could be considered quite self-evident. For example, it is a strange order that the government, through its authority JK, can overcoat our courts – the same courts that the Minister of Justice says he respects and whose independence he claims to safeguard. The Minister of Justice cannot see that there is something understandable about the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court themselves not even being able to have a word on the team in the recruitment process, even if they want to be able to have a member whom they see a need for in the court or want a lawyer with special competence. This dismisses the Minister of Justice as irrelevant. I know the Attorney General has set up an investigation to look at recruitment. It does not concern this issue, but perhaps one can hope in any case. I find it sad that the Minister of Justice does not want to see the positive symbolic value of the fact that the courts in budgetary terms should be dealt with in special order by the Parliament's Constitutional Committee. It would not cost anything in terms of money, but it would clearly mark the fact that the courts have a very special role in a democratic rule of law. But by all means – the attitude of the Government rather well reflects the scepticism towards an independent judicial system that has characterized Social Democracy in all times. It has also wanted to see the courts as a tool for realising the social democratic vision of ideal society. It was, among other things, this scepticism against the judiciary that made the Social Democracy only late and reluctantly agree that the government's completely independent European Court of Human Rights was given influence over Swedish law and law enforcement. I think that there is reason to ask the Minister for Justice whether, at this time when the position of the courts is under severe pressure in Europe, he sees no reason whatsoever to strengthen the position of the courts in Sweden. Can the Minister of Justice see any reasons for this?
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-148	Mr President, I would like to Maria Abrahamsson stayed within the framework of her speech for a long time, I think. But when she starts to claim that the Social Democracy has not respected independent courts, I'm actually quite horrified. She is a representative of a party that for decades fought against democratic development in Sweden. I am a representative of a party that promoted freedom of expression and press in Sweden. I am the representative of a party whose predecessor was imprisoned by the authority of the party of Maria Abrahamsson at the time; the reason was that they spoke things that were not then allowed. We fought for these democratic rights – freedom of organisation, freedom of association and universal and equal suffrage. We also fought for the general development of the rule of law. Now I am told by Maria Abrahamsson that we would not have respected the fundamental principles of the rule of law. It's a violation, I'd say. I asked Maria Abrahamsson if she could refer to any example that the current regime would call into question the independence of the courts. She didn't. She says it could possibly be. But she has no example to give. She also says that she is behind the Fundamental Law investigation, just as the Moderates did when I was in that investigation. But in the next breath, she says that her party wants to change things. You actually have to make up your mind. Are you in a deal, or are you not in a deal? You cannot come back and say no, we probably do not like this, and you cannot, I think, just because you get into opposition, come and say that you want to change the basic conditions. That is why we are making long-term agreements on the constitutions and the Constitution: in order to be able to trust it also when you are in opposition. I am well aware that, as Maria Abrahamsson also points out in her speech, there are worrying developments in Europe in some quarters. I am talking about countries such as Poland and Hungary. If you're going to resist it, I don't think it's about constitutional prudence. Poland and Hungary have such judicial councils as Maria Abrahamsson talks about, but this has not prevented authoritarian forces from entering and trying to change the basic conditions. This is about something completely different. If we are to resist this kind of development, the democratic forces must be prepared to distance themselves and say not when something like this is about to happen. It is Maria Abrahamsson's own party friends in Hungary who drive such a development. If Maria Abrahamsson wants to make an effort to preserve independent courts and the rule of law in Europe, I think she should do so in relation to, for example, the authoritarian forces which are now driving such developments in Hungary and Poland. Then it is her own party friends she should be addressing, not against the Social Democracy.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-154	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Justice must excuse me, but I am not going into the foreign policy debate – I am sticking to my interpellation on the independence of the Swedish courts. I would like to say again that I am fully behind the G round-team investigation. Last year, I and my fellow party members in the KU exercise that we wanted a constitutional court and were quite rightly told by the Minister for Justice's party colleague Björn von Sydow that we actually settled this in the G round law investigation: we would not have a constitutional court. As a result, we did not even reserve ourselves for that claim because we respect the investigation. What we have now done, on which my interpellation is partly based, is that we have identified a space that the investigation did not invest very much in – no clear positions were made. Of course, it was touched that JK supervises the courts, but it was very superficial. We have gone a little further on this issue and have concluded that, from a European perspective, perhaps it is not entirely palatable that, for example, the JK as office, which is under the authority of the Minister of Justice and the Government and is the government's principal lawyer, is also in charge of our courts. I am not saying that it has been misused, but when you look at it from the outside, you can object to the system. I think that the Minister of Justice, if he stepped out of his position of power and looked a little from the side, could also see that the system contains weaknesses and shortcomings that could easily be corrected by shifting supervision from JK to, for example, the JO, which does not have the clear government connection.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-158	Mr President, I would like to I think it is the person who wants to bring about a change that has the burden of proof and must point out that there is indeed a concrete problem. Therefore, in this debate, I have asked Maria Abrahamsson whether she can show an example where the order we have in Sweden has meant that the independence of the courts can be put into question. I don't experience it that way. As I said, I have not received a request from the judiciary that this should be the case either. An article was written in 2013, when we had another Minister of Justice. She, Beatrice Ask, probably made the same assessment as I do today, i.e. that the current order should be fixed. It is not the case that the G round-team investigation did not devote time and effort to this, on the contrary. Take the question about the Judges' Board and the judge's recruitment. There we created a whole new system, and we discussed very thoroughly what it would look like. We agreed on the order now in force. I know that Maria Abrahamsson himself has been on the Board of Judges and knows how it works there. When she then says that the Moderates are behind this and in the next breath says that they want to change the system, the deal we made is abandoned. The former Minister of Justice, as I said, did not want to change the system, but felt that it should be firm and did not see the problems that Maria Abrahamsson has highlighted. I am not doing so either, and so we do not intend to launch a new review on any of these points. If we do not talk about foreign policy but take note of what Maria Abrahamsson himself said in her speech, namely worrying tendencies in Europe, I agree with that. We must therefore make every effort to ensure that this type of authoritarian tendency does not also take a strong hold in Sweden.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-163	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren has asked me what action I intend to take if the financial coordination associations and the Social Insurance Agency were not to agree on this issue. As I said earlier in answer to a question from Gunilla Nordgren, the government considers the coordination associations to be important in providing support for individuals in need of coordinated rehabilitation efforts. It is important that the funds of the coordination associations are used to achieve such efforts. A group that the government considers to be particularly important to prioritise for the coordination associations are young people with activity compensation. In view of Gunilla Nordgrens's current question about the change in the hourly price of employees at Försäkringskassan who work in operations carried out by coordination associations, I note that on 10 November the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has notified the coordination associations that the Agency will not implement the change in the hourly price for the employees of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency previously announced. This means that the hourly price in each individual agreement between Försäkringskassan and a coordination association will be based on Försäkringskassan's calculation model for 2015.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-166	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. As the Minister says, the issue today is a little less urgent. On the same day that I submitted the interpellation, on 10 November, a letter from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency was sent to the coordinators of the various associations. Of course, it took a few days before the letter reached out to all the governments of the League; I sit in one myself. In other words, the decision of the Social Insurance Agency did not reach all those concerned for a few days. I may think the answer is a little too simple and easy, and why do I say that? Well, it says in the letter that there is uncertainty about the legislation of the same person who was previously very confident about the legislation. It also says that Försäkringskassan will investigate the issues further in collaboration with the parties in the National Council. So uncertainty will continue until this is established. I asked a written question about this at the end of September and was then given the answer that, it is my hope that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and the coordination associations can agree on this. That's what I was hoping for, so we were in complete agreement. From the date when Försäkringskassan announced unilaterally in June that it intended to raise its claims in the future, it has been very upset in many associations. In some covenants, it has even been said that you are quitting. In some applications for actions in 2017, it has been seen that the other collaboration partners have also tried to add extra costs. The work to prepare the projects, which are then sent to Finsamförbunden's boards, has been going on all autumn. Since I myself am the chairman of a union, I have seen this with my own eyes when you increase the costs. The first letter that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency wrote last summer was very clear about what it would be like. The hourly price for staff for Försäkringskassan would be SEK 800. That means a month's salary of 130,000. Försäkringskassan was also very clear that if the other members of the association, i.e. Arbetsförmedlingen, county councils and municipalities, do not apply prices that also cover overhead costs, this does not change Försäkringskassan's position. Different government authorities should therefore be able to use different rules. You can't have that. I could put it this way: surely it must be some order! It was referred to various laws. When you read the information from Försäkringskassan more carefully, you find that the agency can take out full cost recovery in case of external engagement. Here you are a partner – Försäkringskassan has 25 per cent, Arbetsförmedlingen 25 per cent, county councils 25 per cent and municipalities 25 per cent. Finsamförbunden has a somewhat difficult situation at all. I think it would be good if we could discuss the future a little. The concerns created by Försäkringskassan during the autumn have not been good. This means continuing conversations, and it creates continued concern. Should it be decided in the future that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency raises its claims for compensation, there will be consequences in the form that the others will also increase their costs.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-175	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gunilla, for an urgent interpellation! I can assure Gunilla Nordgren that during the autumn I have been very clearly aware of the outrage that has arisen in the coordination associations. I have also been very clear in the contexts where I have been present and discussed the coordination associations. For the government and for me, as Minister of Social Security, it is important that the resources allocated to the work of coordination associations should be used as much as possible to support the people in need of action. That is where I remain very clear. However, I am pleased that the uncertainty that could otherwise have been a fact already on 1 January 2017 so far is averted. I have also been clear from the government's point of view from the outset that we see great potential in the coordination associations. In connection with the government's package of measures on sick leave, we provided additional funds to the coordination associations to also send a signal that we see that they have an important role to play and that we would like to see more coordination associations developed around the country. We are also following with great interest the development of the activities of the coordination associations and will further clarify the mandates of the government, which the coordination associations have previously had. It has been about focusing on long-term sick leave and on young people with activity benefit. In addition, the Government will give a mandate to the Social Security Inspection to evaluate the activities of the coordination associations. It is both about how they are organised today in relation to the legislation we have and about monitoring the activity itself and its results, with the idea of being able to take further steps to develop the coordination associations further. When we look at, for example, the group of young people with activity compensation, which has been a priority group in the coordination associations for some time, we can see that only 5% of that group has benefited from the activities of the coordination associations. When, in the way that we do in the coordination associations, we gather resources for the individual young people with rather difficult problems, the results are at least on the small part that we have seen so far very good: 38% of these young people have moved on to work or studies. If we look at the entire group of young people between the ages of 16 and 29 with whom the coordination associations have worked, we can see that we have a similar result: 33% go on to work or studies, and another 19% go on to the Public Employment Service and get other contributions from there. This leads in some way in evidence the thesis we have at the moment in the government and at the Ministry of Social Affairs that the sectored welfare system can make the necessary efforts more difficult. When it comes to these groups with a complex, difficult problem, we must be able to break the sectoralisation between authorities. There, the coordination federations are the natural platform. The government will stand by this in the future.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-180	Mr President, I would like to We have discussed and debated this before. I understand that the Minister for Social Security is in favour of associations, but it has not really been seen out there in reality with the concerns that have been. I attended the open hearing the other day. I did not sit among the members of the committee, but at the back. Many beautiful words were said from various authorities about the need for more cooperation and so on. More money has also been received from last year, but at the same time more alliances have been created, which means that it is not certain that an individual alliance will receive more money. There is a lot of talk about evaluation. I think we are doing well, but it is very difficult to make an evaluation of such soft activities. It is easier to evaluate when you have laid ten miles of asphalt than to decide what would have happened to these people if they had not taken part in the various projects. What unions need is a long-term perspective. Right now it's cool, but if Försäkringskassan continues to argue that they should have an increase – perhaps not to 800 but well to 700 – it means fewer contributions. Then it's not true to what the government has said they want. Should this happen, is the Minister prepared to compensate for the increase in the Social Insurance Fund, which will lead to increases by the other three partners as well? Now I do not think the Minister can go in and order Försäkringskassan here, but if the Försäkringskassan makes an increase, the other three will follow. The Minister will then have a task to ensure that the budget is increased, so that unions are kept harmless. That this then means that the state gives with one hand and the authorities bring the other, we can think what we want. It's gonna be a little messy. But if you now think that this is a good business, you need more workshop. We are very pleased with all the positive words in the open committee hearing, both from the Minister and from the authorities, but what NNS said was that we need a long-term perspective. The financing model is very complicated. If Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen – it is the Försäkringskassan that has the money – says that they will reduce by 5 percent, it means that the other three will also. Then you sit with a number of projects that you can refer back and say that you can't afford them in 2017. Can you afford it in 2018, then? We don't know, because the Social Insurance Agency says they only have one year's money. It's a truth with modification. The central government budget includes a certain number of SEK for 2017, but there is also a plan for 2018 and 2019. This is also the case in county councils and municipalities. I have had countless discussions with Försäkringskassan, which insists that they have only one year's money and that they decide in November. They must do so before the local and regional councils make their decisions. The functioning of the financing model is not properly taken into account. That is why this discussion is so important. We are very grateful for all the beautiful words about Finsam's activities, but we want to see more workshop and that it will be easier to work with these questions in the future.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-188	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, the government has clearly prioritised the coordination associations and raised the issue of their potential on the table in a way that they have not been for a very long time. We sent out a clear signal when we quite quickly added additional resources to the coordination associations in the package of measures we put forward on sick leave. We are now also planning a fairly proper evaluation. I share Gunilla Nordgrens's concerns and take note of this about how to evaluate in a way that also allows the soft values to be taken into account. When I presented the statistics, you yourself heard that I reported a return to work or study very clearly. We both know that this is not always the case in the activities of the coordination associations. For example, if you have been away from the labour market for ten years, it may be enough to take a number of steps forward. Then the question is: How can we value it in a different way? I believe that we will have to do so. At the same time, when looking at an evaluation that could now be carried out, it could also be a question of clarifying the problem of the boundaries of the various cooperation measures. It is also about being able to spread successful efforts and ways of working – we know that there is a great deal of difference between the coordination associations. Then you could perhaps get a clearer model of how the coordination associations should work in the long term. I think it is good to leave that kind of decision to a clear evaluation. As I said, we see the potential. We will continue to be clear. It's a complex problem that everything is people in Sweden today have and over time have had. It's a larger proportion of mental illness. We will also recognise this if we look at the international scene. I think we need to be able to lift ourselves over our drainpipes or our sectoralisation between different parts of welfare and see that we need to find new models in the future to work together. From the government's side, I am pleased that we have a situation where we have more secure conditions for 2017. We, of course, come from the government to monitor the progress of this discussion, linked to the fee regulation to which reference is made. Our absolute ambition is, of course, that the majority of the resources allocated to this activity should not go to administrative overhead costs but to real efforts for those people who are in great need of them. So far, the authorities involved in this collaboration have obviously made different interpretations. Försäkringskassan has had some thoughts that go in one direction, and Arbetsförmedlingen has done in another way – to name just a few examples. But I was very pleased with the hearing that we had in Parliament last week. However, from the various components of the coordination associations, a common ambition was expressed. I will rest in it but also follow developments in the future very closely.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-195	Mr President, I would like to Yes, many times people get closer to the labour market. How do you measure it? I'm working on it and I know all this and I think it's positive that we get this. I even talked to the last government, I can say, and worked on this issue. But if you are serious and if this is raised to 700 kroner or 600 kroner or something, I see it more or less as a promise that the League will be shameless. That it then involves a change of government money is another five. If you are so in favour of this activity, I want us to be given the conditions for the long-term perspective that is needed. That is also what the National Council said at the open hearing. Evaluation is one thing – we have heard that all these years. The associations are very different, and we are already working together today. We try to give each other good examples and so on. But unions must also be able to work in different ways. It could be a small municipality. It could be a big town. They could have merged. They are different, and this will be done in different ways. The main thing is that we get long-term and clear rules for real and not just a lot of beautiful words. It's very nice to have beautiful words. But what we need now is a long-term perspective. Should there now be more expensive costs, as we hope it will not be, the state will have to increase the funding accordingly. If the state then trades money with itself, it must do so. We believe in what we do, and we want a long-term perspective so that you can have projects that extend over many years. Already today there is a lot of administrative stuff that we have to take. I thank you for a good debate and look forward to the League becoming harmless no matter what happens in the future.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-200	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I've been pretty clear. Our current approach is that we will now give very clear mandates to the authorities but also clear expectations that the coordination associations will achieve the necessary priorities in their activities. It is also a question of giving priority to the groups in which we at least see indications could well be given to the actions of the coordination associations. I am also very clear that we will be following the issue. We want to see the resources go to those who need them most and not to administrative efforts. I hope that we will be able to rest on a good, good and thorough evaluation of the decisions we take in the future. When you meet government representatives, politicians or representatives of health care who work actively with the coordination associations, it is striking that they, regardless of the party colour, are very inspired by the opportunities they see in this way of working. We need to take this on board and develop it further. I think it's a model for the future. I will stay there and thank you for a good debate.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-204	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me if I and the government intend to take any initiatives to tackle the inequality of sick leave. Lotta Finstorp refers in her interpellation to a report from the Social Security Inspection. This report shows, among other things, that on average men are prescribed 2.8 days longer than women in the first medical certificate. The results presented by the inspection are based on the fact that each diagnosis is presented separately. In terms of total sick leave, however, women's sickness benefit is 90 per cent higher than men's. This is because the number of start-up cases is significantly higher for women than for men and women are more frequently prescribed for diagnoses that often lead to long periods of illness. It is likely that women's higher absenteeism is due to a variety of collaborative factors. It is about shortcomings in the working environment and gender equality in general. Therefore, both gender equality and work environment are prominent areas in the Government's action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave. The Government's goal is a long-term low and stable absence for both women and men. The key to such a development is the improvement of the working environment. This applies in particular to the psychosocial work environment in women-dominated workplaces in school, health and long-term care. It is therefore gratifying that the parties on the county council's municipal side have also responded in a very positive way to the Government's initiative on joint efforts to reduce sick leave and healthier workplaces. In its report, the Social Security Inspection recommends that the importance of an equal process of sick leave should be included in medical training and that electronic transmission of medical certificates should be used to improve follow-up and statistics on sick leave. I would therefore like to emphasise that the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council emphasise the gender perspective in the agreement on a quality-proof and effective sick leave and rehabilitation process. The perspective is highlighted, for example, within the competence initiative in insurance medicine for AT and ST doctors. Within the electronic information transfer part of the agreement, the gender perspective is expressed through the produced statistical service that makes gender-disaggregated statistics possible in healthcare. These are examples of measures that are in line with what the Social Security Inspection requests.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-209	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The answer makes it clear that health and safety issues are very important and therefore also preventive work, both at the organisational and individual level. I can tell you that we Moderates in both committee and party movements have concrete proposals for measures to prevent ill health. It also says in the answer that women's sickness benefits are 90% higher than men's, and that is really where we have the big problem. I therefore find it worrying that the government wants to put away the legs of those women who need to change employers. Many testify that they would have liked to have been able to do so earlier, for example to go to something smaller and alternatively driven or a smaller unit in the public sector. I would therefore like to return to the fact that welfare companies are a very important factor in healthy speech. The large ill-health rates do not exist in the smaller welfare companies, but in the public sector. Most policies are interrelated, Mr President, and that is why we also need to have a common understanding of the factors that interact with regard to ill-health. The reason I wrote this interpellation was a report from the ISF, the Social Security Inspection, which I find very alarming. The report shows that the medical certificate is central to Försäkringskassan's decision if a person is entitled to sickness benefit, and it also affects the inflow into health insurance. When you see that it is so uneven between men's and women's sick leave, although the diagnosis is the same, there is another concern about the high rates of sick leave. Since previous analyses show that the first medical certificate affects the duration of illness, it is also an important factor when it comes to returning to work. If men are then on sick leave longer than women on the first medical certificate, this will have consequences later on during the period of sick leave. What the Social Security Inspection proposes in this report is, among other things, long-term skills investments in insurance medicine, where an equal process of sick leave should be an important part of education. Support resources are also needed in the process of sick leave from a gender perspective. I am not surprised by the conclusions of the report; men have always been the norm in health care. This is also reflected in the first medical certificates. This must stop, because it cannot be like this. On the one hand, all health and safety efforts must be made. We must have good organisations and healthy workplaces that will be good examples for those where they do not work in the same way. We must also have a process of sick leave that is transparent, and it will not be, of course, when it is even unequal not only regionally but also from a gender perspective. Therefore, I think that the study from ESO, where you want to see that it is specific doctors with specific professional medical skills who write sick, is interesting. I would like to hear a little what the Minister thinks about that.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-218	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for a very interesting interpellat ion that just highlights this ISF report! The common goal for us – regardless of party colour, I think – is about how we get to healthier workplaces and how we achieve a low and stable sick absence in Sweden, where the foundation somewhere is that it is a complex issue where we need to do many different things at the same time. In the past, we have also discussed the problems that exist with regard to the working environment, not least in the municipal and county councils sector, but also the private welfare companies have a lot to work with. Although they have lower levels, they still have much higher levels than other sectors on the private side, which suggests that there is a structural problem in how to organise this activity. We need to get to the bottom of this. Nevertheless, I am very pleased with the declarations of intent that the social partners, together with the government, have now signed for the state, private and county councils sector, where the focus is precisely on preventive work and workplace rehabilitation in order to achieve healthier workplaces. On the county council's municipal side, we talk a lot about what we have discussed, that is, how to make these issues part of management and governance in municipalities and county councils and to see how strategically important they are, not only for healthy employees but for the quality of welfare. It also discusses how to use occupational health care more preventively and how to make more use of work environment accounting. I believe that these are important elements in order to achieve healthier workplaces. The differences in sick leave are also a question that we have discussed before: that we have regional differences, that it looks very different what kind of sick leave you get depending on the primary care you visit and whether you get a sick leave or not. In order to link back to Lotta Finstorp's question about this, it is gratifying that, as part of the programme of measures implemented by the Government over the past year, from 1 January there is a new decision support in place for primary care to lean against when it comes to mental illness. The idea is that it will also help us to have a more similar approach to sick leave and when it is appropriate to write sickly in these cases of mild to moderate mental illness that we have discussed quite a lot. There will also be a much greater clarity about the possibility of partial sick leave in several parts. To have a foot in the workplace to the extent possible, I think is very important. We also have the task that the government gave to Försäkringskassan and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare in June, which is about the follow-up of sick leave practices. I'm waiting to get that back eventually. On the basis of these different parts and the implementation of the entire action programme, I also believe that we will come back to the issue of the role of health care in the future with regard to sick leave. As part of the package of measures that we will complement this autumn, we have, among other things, a very exciting pilot project on financial coordination of health insurance between the county council in Kalmar and Försäkringskassan. I'll get back to you.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-229	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister says, I think that many different places have to be screwed because sick leave and workplaces are very individual. That is why we need to look at different parts. Among other things, we have a proposal to make a rehabilitation chain for mental ill health that is partly disconnected from physical ill health. I would like the Minister to comment on our proposal in his next speech. This part-time sick leave is gratifying. I also had such a question, and I think it is appropriate. Our working lives are different. Not everyone works from eight to four, 40 hours a week, and if you are going to be able to go back to work on the part you can do, it must be very flexible. There will be too much hope between the percentages that are today. That's why I'm very happy to hear this. What is also seen in the ISF report is also regional differences. We have previously stood in this House and discussed and debated how the length of sick leave is so different in different regions. For example, the ISF report that we are debating now states that men are on average on sick leave for 1.8 days longer in the second medical certificate. In the first, therefore, it is 2.8 days and in the second, 1, 8. The differences in the period of sick leave between county councils and regions in terms of the first medical certificate are remarkable. For example, what I see in the report is that doctors in Jämtland – Härjedalen write men sick for an average of 5.1 days longer than women, while doctors in Västmanland write men sick for an average of 1.6 days longer than women. So it is longer in both places, but there is still a huge difference in the number of days. Anyone who can break the nut about regional differences will get some kind of Nobel Prize. Many of the county councils and regions also hire rent doctors. They travel all over the country. It is therefore even more incomprehensible that it is so different in terms of culture, attitude or whatever it is. It's strange and interesting. I would like to highlight the trade union Vision's excellent report Sick leave costs welfare billions – A decent working life pays off. We also talk economics, not only the suffering of the individual, but also economics and responsibility for society's common pot of money. Sick leave costs more than SEK 20 billion each year only for municipalities, county councils and regions. It is money that could really be used in the core business to improve quality or what needs to be done individually in regions and municipalities. These are direct costs in the form of sick pay and pension provision. When it comes to putting the health of staff on the political agenda, we own the issue ourselves. It is our friends and colleagues in municipalities and county councils who own the issue and are employers in the public sector. The issue needs to be raised higher on the agenda. Vision has broken down the costs of municipalities, county councils and regions. It can hopefully help when it becomes so clear in kroner how much money can be used for other purposes. I would like the Minister to comment on the Vision report.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-239	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I'd love to. I'll start there. We are well aware of the problems that have existed for a long time with the excessive sickness rates in parts of the welfare sector. Different arguments work on different people. To some extent, it should suffice to see the link between delivering a high-quality business and having healthy employees, not least in a situation where the welfare sector has such huge recruitment challenges ahead. Every nurse's health needs to be protected in an obvious way. Sometimes it can be extremely important to look at an issue from a variety of perspectives and to make visible what it is about in terms of resources that go to something that for everyone is only bad for the national economy, for employers, for the quality of welfare and not least for individuals. It should appear that taxpayers' money is spent on core business, that is to say on something that none of us really want to see. It is therefore important that we together point out that in politically-driven activities it is incredibly important that this becomes part of management and governance. Then there is the exceptional challenge of increasing mental illness. The government is trying in different ways to address the question. The government presented a package of measures a year ago. It is above all a question of rigging a health care system that is better able to deal with ill health that looks like it today, both among young people and among people in working life. 42 per cent of all sick leave is due to mental illness. If we put on necks, shoulders and so on, we're talking about 63% of all sick leave. Health care and the medical profession must lean on the latest research. We must not lose all these people. We must ensure, with all the means at our disposal, that people are given the opportunity to return to work and health again between all the actors – employers, healthcare, insurance funds, politics. We need to find ways forward. Of course, I take note of the proposals that come from the Moderates and other party representatives who address the issues. We will need to find different smart ways forward. We cannot dismiss things immediately without considering how they can supplement or develop the work that is going on in order for more people to avoid mental illness, become healthy and quickly get back to work again. It's exciting. Then there was the question of equality. The ISF report does not provide any clear explanation for the differences, but stresses the need for increased research. It is clear, however, that one cannot help but lean on the fact that there is a gender perspective. It is pointed out that men may seek treatment later. It is contradicted by other findings. The issue of gender equality is included as one of the first issues in the Government's action programme. It is also one of the most important parts of the 2016 agreement with SKL on an equal sick leave process. We will continue to focus on this issue. We will lean on the evaluation that is now being carried out of sick leave practices. Then we will see what needs to be done to improve the quality of sick leave.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-247	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for a positive feedback on the proposal we Moderates have on a special rehabilitation chain for mental illness. It is taking far too long today. It may be possible to curb a great deal by going back to work earlier, for example. There may be a file of its own for those particular diagnoses. It is gratifying that the Minister wants to look further at this issue. Many sick people tell about health insurance that is not transparent. It is not predictable, and it is difficult to understand. You don't know how it works in practice when you suffer from ill health yourself. The doctor's medical certificate is often unclear, which makes it difficult both for the sick person and for the employer to understand what is best for the sick individual. The cold shower becomes, as someone has described, when the Social Insurance Agency's assessment completely contradicts the doctor's certificate. That process is difficult for the common man to understand.
i-a12af649c6e6a576-0	Really! ) You trust your doctor. Then others say it's not true. What should be done to make people feel safe with insurance? We spent many years in the parliamentary social security inquiry, and the investigation includes proposals for historical monthly e-revenues. The individual on sick leave should better understand how much money you get back in. With monthly e-revenues, insurance would be much more transparent. When will the investigation's proposal come to Parliament?
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-252	Mr President, I would like to In the case of mental illness, there is a risk of long illness unless the right things are done early. Today we can see that the group consists largely of women in the middle of life, aged 35 to 45, with a long working life ahead of them. Just as we point out in the declarations of intent we have signed with the parties, it is about early intervention directly linked to the workplace to prevent sick leave. This suggests that anything that can shorten the time to get support with adapted workplaces is good. That is why the proposal that you are presenting in this part is interesting. A great deal of the parliamentary social security inquiry is included in the package of measures presented by the government a year ago. Some more will be included in what we call package 2.0. The government announces in the autumn budget that we will proceed with the issue of historical SGI. That was one of the issues where there is a need for some further investigations. The issue was not ready for implementation. There are several reasons why this issue is important. Then you can have comments on how historic SGI strikes one way or the other, but it corresponds better to today's labour market with fixed-term employment, with different forms of employment that people enter and exit. This would provide much more security for those groups. Let's take a look at that question.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-255	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to put on glasses for the first time in this Chamber. It's an almost historic event. Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson has asked me what measures I intend to take within the framework of my responsibility in the government so that housing construction cannot be stopped by authorities, for example in the way that happened at Tuna kungsgård in Linköping. I cannot, of course, comment on the precise circumstances of the matter. However, I have learned that Linköping Municipality has entered into a dialogue with the National Board of Antiquities and the National Property Board on the matter at hand. With regard to the initiatives taken by myself and the Government to enable increased housing construction and to prevent late intervention in the planning of municipalities for new housing, I would like to refer, among other things, to the 22-point programme presented this summer. The Government wants to increase housing construction through balanced urban planning that does not endanger the environment, health or safety, but contributes to long-term sustainable construction and good living environments. The programme presents a number of proposals for concrete measures that have the very purpose that Ola Johansson is asking for. I shall confine myself here to presenting proposals that have bearing on the state's involvement in land-use planning. According to a proposal in the 22-point programme, a municipality should be given the opportunity to request, during the planning process, a planning statement from the County Administrative Board regarding the compatibility of the plan with one or more of the state intervention grounds. This applies to issues such as national interests, beach protection and noise. The idea is that the municipality should not have to wait for a position on a project until a detailed plan has been drawn up and adopted by the municipality. The planning statement is intended as a complement to the current regulatory framework and can lead to a more efficient planning process and reduce the risk of inconvenient planning. According to the programme, the county administrative boards are to give priority to the handling of decisions under appeal in planning and construction matters relating to the construction of permanent dwellings. Furthermore, the programme contains a proposal to clarify that housing construction constitutes an essential public interest to be taken into account more closely in the work of county administrative boards. The time taken by the county administrative boards to deal with the so-called 'intervention grounds' is not specified today, but such a clarification is now being proposed. We also state that the Planning and Construction Act will be reviewed with the focus that municipal review planning will be partly binding. The intention is to increase the predictability of decisions on how land and water should be used and that the dialogue between the state and the municipalities should be managed to a greater extent within the framework of the survey planning. For those areas where the State and the municipality agree on land use, the State should not subsequently be able to intervene against projects compatible with the master plan in cases other than where the State acts as owner. There are also other points of interest. This includes the proposal to appoint a negotiating person to be tasked with bringing together certain actors in municipalities where state-owned land is suitable for housing construction. The aim is to get more housing on state-owned land in an appropriate way. The survey is proposed to play a role in facilitating the transfer of such land from the State to the municipality. The programme also includes proposals for the revision of certain traffic noise issues in residential buildings and of certain beach protection rules relating to rural development. As regards the question of national interests, I can inform you that the proposals for changes to the national interest system of the Swedish National Interest Investigation have now been sent out for a referral until 28 February 2017. Since the issue is so wide-ranging and concerns so many different stakeholders, the consultation has been sent to a large number of bodies, including those dealing with housing construction issues. In this context, I would also like to mention that the Government has proposed in the budget proposal for 2017 that the County Administrative Boards should contribute SEK 30 million for 2017 and 2018 and that the funding from 2019 should be increased by SEK 25 million annually. The Government's proposal is to provide resources to the county administrative boards in the light of the situation with a strong increase in housing construction and an increase in the number of cases. According to the proposal, the resources are to be used for handling and advising on planning and building permits cases and for maintaining short processing times for PBL cases under appeal. In this respect, I assume that the county administrative boards will continue to contribute to the proper balance between different interests, including with a view to ensuring sustainable natural, cultural, living and living environments. I have high hopes that the measures proposed will enable the state interests to be clarified at an earlier stage than hitherto and thus facilitate the spatial planning of municipalities. The other efforts that I have reported should also be able to contribute to improved conditions for increased housing construction.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-266	Mr President, I would like to I think I'll keep my glasses on. Peter Eriksson's answer about Tuna Kungsgård, for which I thank him, is very broad. Not surprisingly, he takes my question about the actions of state authorities – which in this case stops Linköping municipality from completing a plan work that would give 2,500 homes – as a pretext to tell about completely different things than those that the question was about, namely how he intends to act in the future because things that happened at Tuna kungsgård do not happen again. The background is that on 20 September Linköping Municipality received a decision from the National Antiquarie Office regarding changes to the protection regulations, which means that Tuna Kungsgård in its entirety will be a state building memory and subject to protection regulations. It is therefore not only the buildings themselves, but also fields, meadows, avenues, forest cliffs, roads, streams, etcetera that must not change in character. As early as 2012, Linköping Municipality pointed out the area in a master plan, and since then the planning has continued with consultations and exhibitions. The late decision of the office means that 1 000 – 1 200 homes cannot be completed. This affects the plan as a whole, as public transport solutions and the economy need to be reconsidered on the basis of new conditions. Everything has been done in consultation with the owner of Tuna Kungsgård, which is the National Property Board. Suddenly another authority goes in and changes the conditions for everything. In his reply, the Minister of Housing mentions that there should be a negotiating officer and a mission to the state to inventory land. That is a good thing, but what has happened here is a striking example of when the coordination between two authorities fails and leaves one of the country's most expansive municipalities in a very difficult situation. It underlines the importance of coordinating and governing the state. The government has a responsibility to ensure that authorities contribute to the development of housing. If they do not want it, it should be clear from the beginning in the message given. Peter Eriksson should be able to go so far that he at least regrets what has happened and promises to work for better governance of the state. If Peter Eriksson is not going to tell you himself – I think he does – I can mention that Linköping Municipality receives 58 million in so-called building bonuses, according to what Boverket announced during the week. In 2015, Linköping Municipality had a surplus of 190 million in its financial statements. It is primarily to already expansive municipalities that money is paid out and not where it would be needed. My own municipality Kungsbacka receives SEK 15 million and in 2016 has a forecast surplus of SEK 94 million. Why does Åtvidaberg or Hylte in Halland not receive this support? Perhaps they would have needed it more, given that they assume a great deal of responsibility for the reception of refugees. Peter Eriksson wants us to discuss the government's so-called 22-point programme instead. Perhaps in the next round we could talk more about the advantages and disadvantages of it. I can conclude this speech by stating that, in terms of national interests, protection of various kinds and, not least, the protection of the beach, municipalities and regions are completely powerless. I would like to see decision-making regional bodies in the counties given a more important role in coordinating and managing the planning of housing and infrastructure, but then they must also be able to make their own priorities between building and protection in various forms. The national interest inquiry is now being referred to. How it has taken so long could otherwise have been the subject of a new interpellation. At the pace of the government, it feels like the issue of national interests will be something for the Alliance's housing minister to undertake after the 2018 elections.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-276	Mr President, I would like to Mr. Minister! Sweden needs more housing, and Linköping needs to build 15 000 or more at a fast pace. That's what you do. I know that the Minister of Housing cannot or will not be in charge of current government decisions. But it is important that the Minister and the government are fully aware of how the various arms of the state act, without coordination – in this case – and very late. I agree with what Ola Johansson said, that measures obviously need to be taken to require better procedures and dialogue. I don't want this to happen. The Centre Party's municipal councillor in Linköping, Muharrem Demirok, went to the roof when the sudden news came from the National Heritage Office that the entire Tuna Kungsgård, with several hundred hectares of land, at Roxen near the area Ekängen, will become state building memory and thus not be built. The protection of large parts of Tuna Kungsgård, with the building in the centre, is uncontroversial. What is at issue here is a forest area of a few hectares in the derelict prison of Roxtuna, which is also part of the 1,200 homes planned. So it is not pastures, arable land and so on, but it is an individual small part of the large area. The construction is important in order to make the nearby area Ekängen more harmonious, with the center and service. Now 1 200 homes are being prevented. The municipal master plan for the expansion was adopted in 2012 after customary consultation with citizens and landowners, including the National Property Board, which owns the Kungsgården estate. Neither the Real Estate Agency nor the National Heritage Office objected in any way to the detailed plan or construction, but the plan was established in good harmony. The state has owned the royal courtyard for 800 years, so it has had time to establish a line until 2016. Suddenly, on August 24, the National Board of Estate wrote to the Swedish Real Estate Agency, with a copy to Linköping Municipality, and requested the Swedish Real Estate Agency's views on the whole of Kungsgården being a state building memory. A month later – when it was quick – the municipality received the decision of the National Board of Antiquities. As Ola Johansson said, this behaviour by the state is totally unacceptable. It would be interesting if the minister customer e give a comment on this. On the one hand, the state requires Linköping Municipality to quickly build at least 15,000 homes, and to agree to the detailed plan that will enable 1 200 of them, and on the other hand, the National Heritage Office will put an end to the impervious detailed plan by establishing a state building memory. The state must stop putting its backs on both itself and the municipalities," says Demirok, the Central Council of Local Authorities. The state does not give us long-term rules of play, and it becomes extremely problematic," says Social Democratic Commissioner Elias Aguirre. In his interpellation response, the Minister of Housing refers to his finding that Linköping Municipality has entered into a dialogue with the National Heritage Office and the National Property Board. Yes, thank Fagerlund for the municipality's reaction, although I myself do not know how and when the dialogue started. Unfortunately, the decision of the National Board of Antiquities has already been taken. Nevertheless, I interpret the housing minister's reference to the dialogue as saying that he would like to see the National Heritage Office nuance its decision so that a few hectares can be excluded and the 1 200 homes built according to the current detailed plan. Thank you for those words, Minister of Housing!
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-285	Mr President, I would like to In concrete terms on this issue of Linköping and Tuna Kungsgård, I would like to say: this is not how it should be done. It's not okay. It is not reasonable towards the municipality and its efforts and commitment that the state first says yes to a project and then, at a very late stage, stops it. I think all the politicians in Linköping were dismayed, and when I heard about it, I became so. It is unreasonable for the municipality to spend money, resources and time planning and building for people who want to live and need housing when it is stopped in that way. What is to be done about this? It's not quite simple. We have a comprehensive regulatory framework that concerns, for example, national interests, which we have talked about here. At the same time, it is good that the question is now on the table. It is out for a referral, and there may be part of a future solution. I think some of the answers are in the so-called 22-point programme. We say, for example, that county boards should be able to give advance rulings and that outline plans should be more binding than before. I also think that the state should have a dialogue and discussion within itself, between the authorities, on how to act, and have a perspective that is a little more planned and long-term instead of decisions coming very late, as in this case. I believe and hope that the dialogue between the municipality and the authorities to which I referred will produce results and that a decision will be reached which means that it will not be as serious as it looks. I'm not the one who decides. The government cannot go in and make such a decision either, but I hope that a solution will be found that caters for a large part of what Linköping has planned.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-290	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his clear statement as to what he thinks of the state's action in this particular case. That was very welcome. We can only speculate on the content of the contacts between the National Property Board, the National Heritage Office and Linköping Municipality. At least that is not something that I have been able to confirm this morning through my political contacts. It would be good if this could be a lesson for how the state works in the future, as the Minister said. In his reply, he mentioned some elements of the 22-point programme, and I am happy to discuss them. Among other things, the government wants to make outline plans partially binding, without going into how. With regard to the government's announced proposals, I cannot see the context in which such an issue would be raised. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that there is an announcement to the government about this but that it will then mean that a builder or landowner will be able to initiate and implement a detailed plan up to decision. This is one of the points in the Centre Party's long list of reforms in the residential area. I hope that the government will take on board the private planning initiative in its continued work on outline plans. Plans from the County Administrative Board that do not allow so-called in vain housing planning to take place would also be welcome. It should also be mentioned that it is we in the Alliance who have ensured that detailed plans can no longer be appealed to the county administrative board, but it should be done directly to the land and environmental courts. In this way, we avoid that the county boards end up on double chairs. We would like the government to move forward and also remove appeals against building permits resulting from detailed plans from the county boards' tables. Boverket's follow-up of appeals and response times from the County Administrative Board shows that this would be necessary to shorten lead times further. Appeals are a major obstacle to housing construction. The national interest inquiry is finally going out for a referral. It is thick and very complex matter which in any case contains a form of valve, according to the investigator, where residential building can become a general essential interest. However, on behalf of the Center Party and myself, I would like to point out that we do not need more national interests, rather increased local or regional influence on how national interests can be applied and balanced against important interests such as housing. As regards beach protection, noise issues and the role of the so-called negotiating person in this, what the Minister describes in the answer to the question about Tuna Kungsgård and how an authority hinders the implementation of a plan that could have provided 2,500 homes. In the absence of a discussion on the current case, we have the opportunity to discuss other obstacles and things that can increase housing construction, and that is a good thing. There are many good approaches to what Peter Eriksson says here, but it also shows a lack of willingness to tackle major obstacles that mean that small municipalities are not given the opportunity to plan and build in the way that Linköping, for example, does. There are circumstances that make it difficult for housing companies, private and public utilities, to build tenancy rights for households with a weak economy in unsafe markets. We have a lack of mobility related to how migration is taxed and how rents are set. I look forward to the final lap of this discussion and the forthcoming housing policy debate with Peter Eriksson next week.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-300	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to refer, on behalf of both the Minister for Housing and the National Antiquities Office, to what Östgöta Correspondent's leader writer Christian Dahlgren wrote after walking around on Tuna k Ungvar's several hundred hectares of large domains and the very small part consisting of Roxtuna and adjacent forest land, namely the following: In the area there is the ancient royal farm Tuna, which is of course and should be a protected building monument. But is it equally obvious to protect several hundreds of hectares in the royal courtyard's connection for the preservation of a historical agricultural landscape? The National Antiquarian Office seems to me to be far too rigid in its assessment. It is therefore only a few hectares to be built. But this is now stopped, even though they were involved in approving the detailed plans. I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for the clarity, clarity and strong criticism of how it has been handled. It is said that this will not happen in the future and that one should try to work on this. I feel confident that if Peter Eriksson had been Director General of the National Heritage Office, this decision would have changed. But now Peter Eriksson is unfortunately not, but I hope that the Riksantikvariebetet in the dialogue with Linköping Municipality and Fastighetsverket with common sense can still arrive at a nuance of this.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-305	Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal to be said about the subject matter. But I think what I have said is enough, and that is what I am able to say. On the other hand, we will certainly continue with the discussions and debates on housing policy in general and what we will do to speed up housing construction, reduce lead times for detailed plans and ensure that municipalities get the tools they need to manage their responsibilities in this area. The perspective that I am trying to have as Minister for Housing is that I see that it is the municipalities that have housing responsibility, and I want the state to be a support and a help for them to manage this. That is why I think it is very good that we now have a comprehensive programme to reduce the regulatory framework and remove unnecessary rules and also to review what has been decided by the Swedish Research Council. There are many interesting perspectives. The government has not yet taken a position on this issue. But it can not only be a matter of housing construction and housing supply becoming a general interest. It can also be about how you view these national interests. Just because an area counts as a national interest does not mean a ban on construction, as some believe. This does not mean that we must look at it at each individual occasion and decision. There may be a need for discussion, clarification and clarification in the context of such matters. There is a risk that, in the case of an area of national interest, any other exploitation or use of the area may be thought to be impossible. But that is not the intention at all from the beginning, and that is not how it should be seen. We also need to look at municipal planning. It is not a problem, Ola Johansson, if the Riksdag has given an announcement on this issue and the government is actually trying to make the survey planning more binding. It is no easy matter to make this change. That means quite a lot to this whole decision-making process, and we need to be careful how we do it so that things don't get wrong later so that we have to regulate back and change. We don't want that. If we make changes that affect the municipal planning process, we must think it through carefully and ensure that there is regulation that helps to clarify, clarify and implement the detailed planning processes more quickly than before, so that there is no setbacks instead.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-310	Mr President, I would like to I thank Peter Eriksson for this. It is true that we cannot go into the subject matter much more. But I think that the issue – the case of Tuna Kungsgård – was an excellent example and a good background to highlight this very difficult issue. The event itself was certainly a major trauma for the residents of Linköping and the representatives of the municipalities, especially for those who need housing in Linköping. It is to be hoped that this will be clarified by the clear signals that the Minister has also given us about what he thinks about this. It is also a phenomenon that arises in the most expansive municipalities. These are cultural environments that are to be preserved, urban centres that are considered to be worthy of protection, densification that needs to be done and detailed plans that have reached the end of the implementation period but that might need to be changed in order to create the conditions for a modern society to emerge in harmony with the existing one. These are areas that we have discussed in the past and which we will certainly discuss again, that is, how detailed plans and the existing ones can be changed. We'll get back to that. It can also be about environmentally dangerous activities that are suddenly in the middle of a city centre and that need to be managed. It can be about noise from activities and traffic. Here we do not really agree on where the limit values should be. When it comes to more sparse municipalities, it is very much about beach protection. I believe that when it comes to the issue of beach protection, it is not something that will provide so many homes. But it is an important signal to those municipalities that may need to create more attractive living environments, a signal of regulatory simplification. I see in the wording of Peter Eriksson's reply that this is at least something that is being discussed. I hope that the government will clarify these issues and we will come back to the matter.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-314	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we have a relatively broad consensus on this issue and want to move in the same direction. One thing that I did not comment on earlier but which I might comment on is the municipal bonus that Ola Johansson mentioned. There's something I don't think I need to be ashamed of. The government has introduced this municipal bonus as a support for the municipalities that take responsibility for housing construction and also receive new arrivals in Sweden. This distribution is not about giving the municipalities with the worst results in the annual accounts the most money, but about enabling those who have taken the greatest responsibility to receive additional support. The municipalities may apply for this bonus. Not all municipalities have applied. For example, there are municipalities in the Stockholm area that have not even applied for money. They may not feel it is important to take responsibility. But the vast majority of the municipalities in Sweden have applied, and I think they think it is a pretty good and important contribution when we now demand that the municipalities around Sweden build more and in many cases build housing at reasonable prices for young people who need housing and for new arrivals who need housing. In this context, it is probably quite good that we are also providing support from the state.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-316	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson has asked me what is the reason for the delay and when a final Swedish definition of near-zero energy buildings will be presented. The introduction of near-zero energy buildings in Sweden is a process carried out in several stages. Since 2014, there has been a definition of near-zero energy building in the Planning and Construction Decree, PBF. The regulation also requires that all new buildings be close to zero energy buildings in 2021. For buildings used and owned by public authorities, the requirement applies from 2019. However, further clarification of what the requirement for near-zero energy buildings entails is necessary. Boverket was commissioned in 2014 to develop proposals for energy performance levels for near-zero energy buildings, to which Ola Johansson refers. The assignment was reported in June 2015, and the report has been out for a referral. The government fully understands that the industry needs time to adapt to the new rules. However, since it is a technical characteristic requirement, energy management and thermal insulation that are affected by the near-zero requirements, it has been a complicated process to reconcile the Swedish regulatory framework with the requirements of the EU Directive. So this is about an EU directive that we must implement in Sweden. There is ongoing work in the Government Office to get a coherent regulatory framework for near-zero energy buildings in place. The focus is that the government should be able to decide on its parts in the near future.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-320	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the answer to the question about the reason for the delay and when a definition of near-zero energy buildings in Sweden will be presented. It is up to each country to define the near-zero energy level. However, the answer that it is difficult and that it is therefore slow, and that the focus is in the near future, is not an answer I am content with. The government has taken various measures. We do not agree very much that grants to apply are the right way to go. The government has identified some actors to coordinate knowledge in the field, and we can agree on that is a good thing. But there is no regulatory framework to deal with. Sweden may not be the last – by the way, perhaps – but at least one of the very last countries in the EU to comply with the EU directive to have a definition of energy-efficient buildings by the end of 2020. Public buildings will be defined by the end of 2018. Here, too, the government cannot give any information, even though only a few years remain until then. The industry soon no longer cares about what the rules look like, as long as it does something about it. It was last summer, 2015, that Boverket presented its proposal, and it has since been for a referral. Now the question lies with the government and the department, and we do not get an answer to the question of when it should be ready. It may be difficult to weigh the primary energy of different locations – solar, wind, biofuels, direct electricity from fossil sources or even nuclear – against each other and to avoid, as far as possible, installing heat pumps and making the best use of the bio-based district heating network. However, the directive lays down requirements for buildings, and it should then be natural to impose requirements on them. Energy efficiency requirements should also not be theoretical; they should be able to be followed up. Not long ago Boverket had to fold and agree that measurement should be mandatory and not voluntary. Not measuring energy performance is like setting up speed controls along the roads where it is optional for the driver to have a speedometer, where the speed limit is not absolute but can be calculated using standard standards, where the police can decide for themselves whether or not to check the speed and where it is sufficient to ask the driver how fast he has driven. It is very important from a housing policy perspective that there are limits and measurement methods to which the companies producing series-produced houses can relate. All the housemakers I've been talking to are wondering what's going on and why the government is delaying. The time to reset is short – four years is a short time, and before the end of that time at least half of the housing needs until 2025 should be fixed. Then the conditions need to be clear for those companies that currently develop homes that need to be series-produced on a large scale.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-325	Mr President, I would like to I would like to reply to Ola Johansson that this has taken a long time. The directive dates from 2010. That's a long time. Two governments are involved. It took four years before the previous government decided in 2014 to give Boverket a commission on the matter. Then Boverket has worked on this, and as I said earlier, the mission was reported in June 2015. The report has since been out for a referral, and then this has been on the government table for another year. I think that's too long. We're not going to keep pushing questions like that in the government. We have to make sure that barrels make faster decisions; that has been my focus since I became a minister. I have tried to draw out all the old things that lie or have been drawn on long bench in the various departments where I have a responsibility, to come up with a decision on those issues. This also applies to this case. I said that we will produce this for decisions in the near future. As I see it, it means a week or two – before Christmas. So unless something unexpected arises on this issue, things will happen. We are in practice ready for a decision in the Government Office.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-328	Mr President, I would like to If we were not told about near-zero energy buildings, we were at least given a definition of the concept. That's good. We have had an Energy Commission that has been working on these issues, and there is an energy settlement on which to build. But it has not gone down in depth on the issues, despite the fact that the energy performance of housing is something that has a very great bearing on this. New research shows that climate impact in the production phase is greater than it is in operation. It is also something that needs to be taken into account at a later stage. But it's good that the operating phase gets the focus in today's BBR rules. Most construction companies can handle BBR by far, and many are the municipalities that want to go ahead and make higher demands. It is criticised, but it is understandable – especially as national requirements allow higher ambitions. I would like to see BBR requirements laid down as soon as possible and those requirements perceived by the industry as sufficiently challenging. I like to see a competition between municipalities, not in who can be the most energy efficient, but in who can be the best at producing and producing housing that meets the needs that exist. I would like to see a competition also in being able to plan for sustainability, both social and economic as well as ecological, and to ensure that the life cycle impact of buildings on the climate is as small as possible. Now, however, the government must deliver in the task Boverket has already had and prepared, before it is given such assignments. The industry tells me that if designers calculate energy performance on paper, the result can diverge up to 100%. That is of course very much, and that is why I chose to raise the issue of measurement in my introductory speech. It is important that it is not a theoretical calculation but that any authority, such as the municipalities, is given the task of following up on this – or at least require that measurement results be delivered that can be followed up and relate to. As a developer, you should be able to rely on the whole industry to follow the same rules and live up to them. I feel that I am making an interpreter for many in the construction industry as I press on this issue. I'm glad we've been told when and when in the near future. The homes needed for us to have 710 000 new homes ready before 2025 are already on the drawing table, and the designers do not yet know how thick the walls should be. Municipal officials setting up planning programmes for the coming years do not know to what extent to rely on the extension of the district heating network, or whether to rely instead on locally produced electricity from wind or solar power. This delay is causing major problems. I feel that this minister, perhaps in contrast to several of the previous ones, understands how important this is. I would have liked us today to have been able to discuss more about the drafting of the rules that would then have been decided and communicated. Unfortunately, the answer of this kind is that we must continue to wait a little longer and come back to the issue.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-336	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Ola Johansson that it is important for us to have a debate on the concrete content of this regulation in the near future. That would be good. That is not possible in this situation, but I think it will soon be. I have an extensive dialogue with the construction industry. I meet their representatives and have contacts with different companies very often. I know that this is a serious and important issue for the Swedish construction industry. Within a few years, these EU directives will apply, but Sweden still does not have clear requirements for industry. What will apply in 2019 and 2021? The industry needs time to make good decisions, to be able to take a stand and develop the technology and to know how far you have to go in different materials. This is an extremely important issue raised by Ola Johansson. I fully agree that there is every reason to be hasty and to ensure that Swedish companies get reasonable planning conditions as quickly as possible.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-339	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that this question is raised. It provides an opportunity to highlight things. Although both the Minister and I have almost daily contacts with construction companies in different parts, I believe that many in the construction industry are listening to this debate and feel that it is time to hear what is going to happen. The recognition of what the regulatory framework will look like may not be appreciated by everyone. We will have a discussion on how to weight primary energy factors and how to achieve measurement that will enable us to create these equal rules of play in a credible way. The discussion will also apply to how we can develop a regulatory framework that means that we can increase the opportunities to coordinate housing construction also across national borders, for example within the Nordic region. As far as energy efficiency rules are concerned, one can look at how Denmark, Finland and other comparable countries, for example, have done. In this way, we could have increased competition with several actors operating in the construction sector, which could create better conditions for cost-effective construction. I thank Peter Eriksson for this debate and hope that I will not have to ask this particular question again.
i-0a51f7854c9991cb-343	Mr President, I would like to I thank the interpellant for the question, and I hope the same! I imagine that this will be resolved relatively soon. This does not mean that the discussion is over, but we will certainly continue to have a debate. As this is a European directive, we must have a regulatory framework that is in accordance with that directive, and in all respects we can no longer decide for ourselves. The regulation will therefore look a certain way. However, how far we go and how tough we are, we can influence to some extent. In the end, we will see what exact requirements Boverket will come up with in the next stage.
